u2015-06-22-0	[[The people in this room are standing up to welcome the citizens' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] : Dear House! The 1st meeting of the second extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and László Földi will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, Dániel Z. Kárpát, member of Jobbik's group, asked for a pre-meeting address: "People on the Road." Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2015-06-22-1	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, the issue of so-called immigrants, the issue of refugees, is at the forefront of public interest. For his part, Jobbik chose the strategy that during the weekend the delegation of Jobbik's leadership and the staff of N1, the National 1 Television visited the affected region: Asotthalom, Magyarkanizsa, Szeged. We have firsthand acquired a huge amount of information about how citizens, law enforcement workers, law enforcement agencies, feel about the issue, and what kind of means migrants themselves are coming here with. What we can see is that, while the government rightly, in a way that we can support, has envisaged a certain type of border closure, there is a kind of panic reaction among the locals. Local residents fear that thousands, tens of thousands of people are stranded on the other side of the fence, among the southern Hungarians. The migrants themselves approached the regions of Szeged and Asotthalom in a panic-like flood. We are now about to be rowed hundreds of them across the river, and unfortunately, when we found a dozen Congolese groups outside of Asotthalom, we met them, they were approaching the population of the farms, and they were trying to ask them for things. Local mayor László Toroczkai tried to alert police forces, from which he said he was told that no major police officer could be sent to the problem-solving site. That is why we call on the government, if it has already brought the issue of the fence in, it has caused an amazing wave in a communication space, to immediately ensure the objective safety and subjective security of the people there, to prepare for a flood, the signs of which we have seen before, but the numbers clearly proved that this was started this weekend, and, more importantly, by setting up an independent border guard, to enable the handling of tasks that unfortunately cannot be handled by police officers working in such a strained manner, with such a level of strength; I stress that they are unable to do so. Furthermore, it would be necessary to immediately expose the members of criminal gangs, to eliminate those who are constantly helping migrants commit illegal acts, and not a rare experience - more TV crews met with them outside of Szeged - that, indeed, by helping migrants with smartphones, small industrialists and other people who are already leading them here from Bulgaria should not eventually arrive through organised gangs of criminals. We can also say that we must reject any liberal voice that has come up in recent times from dwarf parties or small organizations. Here, amazing, foreign ideas have come to light that we should give a rental to migrants in Budapest; long-term voting rights to them; their integration can be achieved in the form of resettlement. We would like to stress that these are not roads for Jobbik, not solutions. Clearly, restoring Hungarian reproduction can be the only way that Hungary can remain for the Hungarians, and we would also like to express the fact that we can see the difficult situation of MSZP, we can see its situation, because it has previously campaigned with 23 million Romanian workers, threatening that our Hungarian brothers across the border will lose the pension and work. And now, many times, a spear is broken by migrants. We would stress that they should not treat this whole problem and the crowd coming here as a homogeneous mass, because some of them are fleeing from real persecution, and they should be given a helping hand. Not to settle them, not to give them social housing and voting rights, but to extend a helping hand for a transitional period, which, hopefully, will solve their problems; but in any case, it is not necessary to take a trip to the world of amazing onionous liberal fever dreams in order to meet the desire of those who were probably not near the border, and have not spoken to the locals who are now in a very strong state of fear. In my view, therefore, the government of Hungary has a dog's duty to reassure the Hungarians living on both sides of the current border that we do have a protective, careful eye above them, and that they cannot get into any trouble that they should be afraid of without their own fault. It can be seen, then, that both the great political forces, the great political force standing on the other side of the fault line outside Jobbik, act irresponsiblely, since one poster is posted, the other destroys it, they argue that there should be a wall or no wall; but they fail to develop a meaningful professional concept. Therefore, Jobbik would consider it reasonable to have a five-party political forum where we could discuss continuously, even on a weekly basis, the issues that have arisen, the options from which you have now made a domestic political war. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We want Hungarians living there to have immediate solutions to deal with the arrival of migrants, so that Hungary can remain Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-2	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that the government does not argue, but acts. At last week's government meeting, you made a clear decision on this very important issue. The European Union's biggest problem is clear to all today: the European Union's biggest problem is the fight against illegal migration. It is also apparent that the Union has not yet been able to give a firm and effective answer to this very important question. The figures prove that, and this was also acknowledged by the EU Home Affairs Minister's meeting held last Tuesday in Luxembourg, that Hungary is the most affected of the Member States of the European Union on the issue of illegal migration when it is based on population numbers or gross domestic product. So Hungary is the most affected, but I would like to state here, before the Honourable Parliament, that the Government of Hungary is committed to the security of the Hungarian people and Hungary, and will take all necessary measures to this end. A clear decision has been made at last week's government meeting. This week, at this week's government meeting, the Minister of the Interior will report on the concrete measures to be taken on this very important issue. This also includes what I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that there has been a dramatic situation on the Hungarian-Serbian border over the last weekend. In the last 72 hours, a total of 1943 people came to Hungary due to illegal border crossings, including the Hungarian-Serbian border of 1817 people: 757 Afghans; 7 Albanians; 62 people from Bangladesh; 1 people from Egypt, 5 people from Côte d'Ivoire; 4 people from Eritrea; 4 people from Gambia, 3 people from Ghana; 2 people from Guinea; 1 person from India; 60 people from Iraq; 24 people from Iran; 1 people from Yemen; 22 people from Cameroon; 54 people from Congo; 6 people from Kosovo; 2 people from Mali; 1 person from Mauritania; 17 people from Nigeria; 165 people from Pakistan; 9 people from Palestine; 2 people from Sierra Leone; 3 people from Sri Lanka; 1 person from Senegal; 3 people from Serbia; 579 people from Syria; 9 people from Somalia; 1 person from Tunisia; 8 people from Uganda. These persons were captured by the Hungarian border police, the Hungarian police. And I would like to share another very important piece of information with the House. At the Hungarian-Serbian border at the border crossing points, so there was no person at the legal border crossing points who would have applied for asylum. So everyone came through the green border, and everyone entered Hungary illegally, in violation of the law. Honourable Congressman, We have had the opportunity to debate several times in this House on border guards. I would also like to say here that the Hungarian police carry out border surveillance tasks. We have recently strengthened the police, especially at the Hungarian-Serbian border; we have confirmed the police with more than 600 people who carry out border surveillance tasks. But I would also like to say that we are planning further reinforcements in this area, and it is not about calling the police the professionals or border guards carrying out border surveillance tasks, but about having the right legal authority to take appropriate action. [[13.20]] Today, honourable Member, the most important or the biggest problem for border police is that they do not have adequate legal authority, they cannot take these illegal migrants into custody, they cannot take proper action in this regard, and we cannot give these refugees back. These refugees also arrive in Hungary through Greece, Greece, Macedonia and Serbia. And I would like to thank here, before this House, my fellow Members, Lajos Kósa and Antal Rogán, for the fact that last week a bill has been tabled in this regard. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They said there would be no wall.]] In order to enable the government to define the concept of a safe third country in a regulation, and to define the scope of these countries, this will allow the Hungarian authorities to act in an appropriate manner, and those who come from a third, safe country can be sent back to Hungary. Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that the Hungarian Government is doing everything in its power to ensure the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian police are doing everything in their power to ensure the necessary - and now it seems necessary - reinforcements to protect the borders. The government doesn't argue, the government acts, we don't need five-party political conciliation forums, we need proper, rigorous, strong laws. I ask this House [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To support them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Ágnes Kunhalmi: Bring our Hungarians home! Those who have left, bring them home.]]
u2015-06-22-4	I have not spoken, but I am speaking to Mr István Ikotity, a member of the LMP faction, who is holding our joint responsibility for the elimination of the exploitation of the Earth before the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask your attention on the fresh encyclical of one of the most important leaders of today, the Catholic head of church. In recent years, Pope Francis, with his direct, outspoken and modest work, has demonstrated that not only Catholic believers should listen to his voice, but everyone who cares about the values of love and justice, if you will, to everyone who believes in European values. Last week, Pope Francis, with his encyclical, revealed the truth about a burning problem in a clear, understandable way, because he claims nothing but that there is global warming, that thousands of species disappear from Earth every year, and that this is largely the result of human activity, driven by greed, greed, and short-sightedness. The same greed, shortsightedness, causes the poverty of all countries and continents, the misery of hundreds of millions, and it is the duty of all well - feeling people, believers and unbelievers alike. This is what the papal encyclical is all about, and this is what many have been upset about, who are the present - day beneficiaries of the world order. These are such self-evident things that we almost do not understand why it is important to express this in the form of a papal encyclical at all, but if you look at the cold facts, you can see that it may never have been so important to speak out and act for our common home, Earth. According to the joint research of three U.S. universities, a new, great wave of extinction has been launched on Earth. The rate of the disappearance of vertebrate species has accelerated at least a hundred times over the past period, and countless animals and plants still alive today are likely to be heard by our grandchildren. According to earth-historical research, this was the last thing to happen around the disappearance of the dinosaurs, with the important difference that mankind is now in the role of reptiles. The cause of extinction is deforestation, climate change, air pollution, so human activity. We are a small country, and we have little responsibility. It is particularly bad that the current government also believes that environmental protection is a nuisance, which endangers profits, even though our country lies in a vulnerable area which is increasingly exposed to climate change, climate change threatens our agricultural conditions and the quality of life of everyday life. As Pope Francis points out, countless wars are now being waged for drinking water, for shrinking natural resources. There are millions of climate refugees in the world, and their numbers will be enveloped if we don't do something about destroying the planet to alleviate the damage. Encyclical states that there is no specific ecological, economic and social crisis, the ecological crisis is also the result of the same exploitative human activity that is destroying both in the economy and in society. And what do we see from the government? We see irresponsible, short-sighted policies in environmental matters and in social policy, we have a government that supports the rich, excludes and based on people's fears. Think of the dissipation of national parks and green civil society organisations, the persistent dismantling of the insulation of our obsolete building stock, the support of the TTIP free trade agreement, the permanent displacement of renewable green energy from Hungarian energy, the tax policy that groups incomes against the richest, and the reduction of education to ensure an outbreak of poverty. This government is pursuing the same neoliberal economic policy that has accelerated the destruction of nature in recent decades and caused the poverty of the masses worldwide. The May Other Politics has already stated in its founding statement that this is a dead end, bringing misery and suffering to Hungary and to the majority of the planet's inhabitants. We have been working in this spirit ever since so that our children and grandchildren can live in a fairer society and inherit as much natural resources as our parents have given us. Speaking of Pope Francis, man is responsible for the preservation of the created world. We live in an age where every person has to do everything in his power to at least alleviate problems, because problems that seem distant and abstract for a long time are already knocking on our door, and we don't have a single day to waste. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-06-22-6	On behalf of the government, István Nagy State Secretary will answer. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, We owe thanks and respect to Pope Francis for sharing his thoughts with us and for drawing attention to this problem that is so important and so burning for all of us. First of all, I would also like to thank you for your speech on the subject, because we are indeed talking about an extremely important issue that will determine the future of humanity in the long term. At the same time, allow me to argue with you on the matter of the government's activities. Indeed, the encyclical raises a number of issues, problems that need to be addressed, and not only on a good day, but also on a systemic and strategic basis, we need to not only talk about it, but we need to do it together, with responsibility and together. Pope Ferenc's encyclical provides wonderful spiritual and spiritual support for our efforts to achieve it as a portfolio responsible for environmental protection through our daily work, and that is to focus our country on sustainable use of natural resources. We all know that a healthy environment determines not only our quality of life but also benefits from competitiveness. The priority objective of our environmental policy is to ensure that the country's economic development, the conservation and sustainable exploitation of natural resources and values, as well as the right to a healthy environment as set out in the Fundamental Law, are implemented. Our political commitment and our conviction are reflected in a number of strategies adopted by the Government and Parliament. These include the National Environmental Technology Innovation Strategy adopted by the Government in 2011 for the benefit of the reduction of our ecosystems, the cost-effective use of natural resources and the sustainable development of the economy. Environmental protection is one of the areas where thoughtful planning has been taking place for more than 20 years, as since 1995, national environmental programmes have been continuously being developed, the Parliament has recently adopted the 4th National Environment Programme for the period 2015-20. We can provide the source of the development primarily through the co-financing of the European Union and the contribution of the Hungarian budget. 15 percent of the available EU funds, some HUF 1118 billion, will be used for environmental and energy efficiency purposes, which also indicates the importance of this area. [[13.30]] During the period 2009-2014, Hungary's environmental status has changed positively in terms of several environmental elements, factors and processes. In the Encyclical of Pope Francis with regard to genetically modified organisms, GMOs, he pointed out that although the use of genetically modified plants has contributed to economic growth in some regions, it has also resulted in less concentration of cultivated areas in the hands of small producers. It also highlights that genetically modified plants destroy ecosystems and reduce the diversity of farming methods. For this reason, it calls for a scientific and social debate, encouraging independent, multi-disciplinary research. We have been pursuing a strong GMO-free policy in Hungary for years, with a clear message in the words of Pope Francis. As we have found that scientific studies on GMOs are insufficient, incomplete, for example, multigenerational veterinary tests or experiments to detect potential harmful effects on domestic ecosystems are lacking, we do not support the authorisation of GMOs. There is therefore also a burning need for scientific, independent research. The Fundamental Law included long-term conservation of GMO-free agriculture as a key strategic objective, inter alia, to ensure the fundamental rights of citizens to health and a healthy environment. Dear House, There is currently an ethical value crisis in the world. The key to solving problems is to change our relationship with ourselves and the world, with nature and with the environment. A change in the development-oriented approach focused on consumption is needed. Harmonised with the previous thought, the main aim of our country's environmental policy is to ensure the improvement of the quality of life, the sustainable use of our natural resources both in terms of production and consumption, the creation of a resource-efficient, resource-efficient green economy. All three objectives are linked to improving the capacity to adapt to climate change and environmental safety. And our horizontal goal must be to strengthen the environmental awareness of society. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-8	Dear House, Now it's time for Congressman Bertalan Tóth, member of the MSZP faction, to get people their money back. It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Now everyone can see and understand more clearly how one of the biggest fidesz thefts in recent years, the so-called big gas theft, took place. Today, everyone can see how Fidesz-KDNP has stolen a 10 percent reduction in gas prices from people over several years, worth some HUF 150 billion. Now everyone can see that with a monthly reduction of HUF 3 000 per month from 2013 at the price of gas, Fidesz only covered our eyes. He covered our eyes so that we wouldn't see how some of the heads of government make close circles of 2-3 billion forints a month by stealing cheap gas. By now, Viktor Orbán and his circle of friends have taken more than 100 thousand forints from us per family only through this case. Ladies and gentlemen, The big fidesz gas theft - taking over Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's weekend metaphor - is like pornography: it is difficult to describe it, but if you see it, you will realize that this is probably it. The analogy may also apply to this case from the point of view that in the present case there is also a daughter, the state-owned MVM Zrt. a subsidiary of Fidesz, which voluntarily surrenders itself and a business opportunity with significant benefits to a group with a close offshore background. At the same time, business benefits and so pleasure do not come from the state, not from the people, not from all of us, but from this offshore group. This partly offshore company is owned by persons who are known to have good relations with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Ladies and gentlemen, For this to happen, effective government intervention was needed. Thus, the Orbán government, who is fond of fences, as a real matchmaker, has done everything to ensure that this profit does not come down on the public side. As Minister János Lázár said earlier, legislation defining our lives was not created by accident, as interest groups enforce their own views through these laws. Ladies and gentlemen, In this case, too, the essence of the Orbán system can be traced: take everything and give it to the leading fidesz circles. Remember, they took away our pension fund savings and squandered them to the stadium, took away the little tramps that provided thousands of families with a living and gave them to their friends, took away the land that provided farmers with a living and gave them to their friends. The line could continue for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past year, time and energy have not been spared in order to explore the circumstances of the large fidesz gas theft. I would like to inform you that this will not change in the future. Thus, we will press charges for misuse of data of general interest if the MVM Partner fails to fulfil its obligation set out in the final court judgment, as he still owes more contracts. We will do everything in our power to find those responsible for transactions that are detrimental to the state. We believe that the former Minister for Development and the management of Hungarian Electricity have a responsibility in this regard. In addition to finding those responsible, we want to reclaim the squandered state wealth for the people. We will initiate the procedure of the EU competition authority to bring this money back to the Hungarian people because of illegal state aid. If this amount goes back, this is nearly HUF 150 billion, then if it stays in the energy sector, it can be used to reduce gas prices. If it comes to the state, a significant increase in wages can be achieved, waiting lists can be shortened in health care, can be used for education or even for VAT reductions. However, if it remains in the energy sector and there is still a usable amount left in addition to the gas price reduction, as we are talking about significant money, it can also be used to develop modern renewable energy systems. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We do our part, we want those responsible to be held accountable, and we want this nearly HUF 150 billion to be returned to Hungarian people, Hungarian consumers, to the Hungarian state. I ask you to help us in these matters, too, in the interests of the people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-22-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is a free market model in the Hungarian gas sector. The licensees are obliged to continue their activities in accordance with the laws of the natural gas sector and the operating licence issued by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Within this framework, companies can conclude contracts on their own terms with either users or other traders. [[Dr. István Józsa: State Company!]] In 2006, the Gas Security Stockpiling Act fixed the amount of gas security in 1200 million cubic metres in addition to rising gas consumption trends. In view of the fact that domestic gas consumption in Hungary decreased significantly to almost two thirds in the coming years, mainly as a result of the economic crisis, it was justified to reduce the level of security stocks. The Parliament authorised the Minister responsible for energy policy to determine the justified extent of the natural gas security stock and the cross-border capacity to replace the inventory. Accordingly, over the years, we will apply the regulation on the extent, sales and replacement of gas security stocks. In order to ensure the security of supply for universal service users, district heating customers and public sector consumers and to preserve the competitiveness of district heating, the supply of natural gas from the natural gas security pool was sold to the statutory beneficiaries. In view of the fact that the purchased natural gas stocks should have been recovered by entry into storage under the Regulation, the beneficiaries were entitled to engage capacity at the point of entry of the Austrian or Ukrainian cross-border lines in order to ensure the enforceability of the replacement. Under the Regulation, two traders were entitled to purchase and use natural gas released from the security stock for the purposes set out in that Regulation. [[13.40]] As has been said several times, MVM Partner Zrt. the quantity of stocks released has been used in a transparent manner for the purposes set out in the Regulation. The MVM Partner offered the purchased strategic storage of natural gas in the form of an open offer for the purposes set out in the Regulation directly to users and indirectly to traders supplying them. As a result of the tender, several Hungarian natural gas dealers were able to purchase from the freed natural gas supply, and all traders undertook to sell the purchased natural gas for the purposes set out in the regulation. According to MVM, the reserved but unused capacity was offered for use for gas years from 2011 to 2014. MVM Partner Zrt. has acted in accordance with the applicable law and the company's internal rules. In all three gas years, it sold so-called interruptible capacity to MET to MVM Partner Zrt. be able to meet its obligation to be reinstated at any time. In the context of the contracts concluded by the MVM Partner, we are not aware of the scheme which is in breach of EU law. MET purchased from the MVM Partner at the same price as any other auction winner. Given that there was no increase in consumption, there has been no need for re-use so far. If you have already mentioned the reduction of the rent, Mr President, before 2010, the Hungarian consumer paid one of the highest prices in Europe and today one of the least. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So much for facts. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-12	Dear House, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, will now present his speech with the title:, "Development in the Pest Region." Here you go.
u2015-06-22-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken several times in this House mainly about developments in the region of South Pest. In fact, I can now tell you the pleasure that a few days ago, when the Prime Minister visited Szolnok, an agreement was signed, which meant that by 2019 Szolnok would be connected to the capital via an expressway network, and the traditional route would build the M4 highway. This is important because Cegléd, Nagykőrös, and Abony are also affected by my constituency, and we look forward to the construction of this road. We are very confident that the construction of this road will start in 2016. We also know that, as a Central Hungary region, we have only just a small slice of EU funds, so we need to use domestic funds for more development. This is true not only in the development of the road network, but also in the construction of industrial facilities and plants. Well, thank God, there's an example of that in the district. In the last few days, we have opened two production halls, which have been built partly out of tender money and partly from domestic sources. We know very well that the development of the road network and the construction and development of the rail line are of paramount importance to the government. Thank God, our area is not bad in this respect, as the railway transport from Cegléd, Szolnok to Budapest and Debrecen to Szeged is well developed. At the same time, we must also say that, after the construction of the M4 within this road network, there will still be lower roads, the development of which in this area would be very important, and there is also a serious need for the development of bicycle roads. This means that we will be able to make the settlements of this region, of this region, more attractive for companies, investors, and we hope that the quality of life of the people living here will also improve in this context, and that these improvements will ensure a safe livelihood in the region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-14	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State László Tasó will answer. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, In his speech before the agenda, he mentioned not only important topics for the Central Hungary region, as it is the responsibility of everyone in this House to increase the country's competitiveness and help people in the areas that are lagging behind. The area of transport development is of particular importance, and we would like to achieve an improvement in one of our disadvantages, namely our ability to improve mobility, as we are known to be at a disadvantage in this area in Hungary. In the autumn of last year, the Government of Hungary adopted its transport development strategy and defined the programme on the basis of the guidelines. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. and 1010/2015. Government decisions make it clear which programmes we can implement in the coming years. As you said, connecting cities with county rights to the motorway network is a key and clear goal of Hungary's government. 2007-2013, to be more precise, we were able to use HUF 2700 billion for transport development in Hungary between 2014. Compared to this, from 2014 to 2020, this is possible only around HUF 1000 billion less, approximately HUF 1500 billion. It is also defined here that it is only and mostly 90% to support and develop the trans-European transport corridors, which can be used as a source in this area. Therefore, it would be important to provide Hungary with resources in other areas anyway. Therefore, it is of great importance that the Hungarian Government made it clear in its 1010 decree that we still have to add domestic funds around HUF 1000 billion gross by 2020 in order to build important connections, important roads for the regions. However, we are not only building roads, as the development of railway lines will take place in some 800 kilometres, we will build or renovate 500 kilometres of roads and expand capacity, we will build suburban hubs in several cities with county rights, we will also buy motor trains, HÉV trains, trolleybuses and buses. I think that the importance of cycling roads is also enormous in Hungary, there is also a major economic role and the possibility of a bicycle road development in many respects. The Hungarian government and the town of Szolnok, with county rights, have concluded an agreement within the framework of the M4 programme, and has made it clear to everyone that the M4 road will be built, and we will connect the city with Szolnok county rights to the expressway network. It was also said that this would lead to a technical change in the way that this relationship would finally be put in place. It is important to mention the history, since in 2008 the Hungarian government first submitted an EU demand for EU funds to the M4 but was then treated as a main road. So let's remember, in 2008, the M4 was still designed as a highway. Then, in April 2009, they received the rejection during the Bajnai government, then they made it clear that the construction of the M4 highway was not available. In October, then, the then Secretary of State ordered in 2009, that the M4 be redesigned as a motorway. So there's a Calvary in this thing, you have to remember that. It is strange because it was Bajnai Gordon himself who was given the opportunity in 2006 by Ferenc Gyurcsány to develop the tendering system and the EU's call for funds. However, the government's request was rejected in April 2009. We rebuttoned and renegotiated the matter, went as published in 2009 and turned again with a need for resources to the Union. Everyone knows the rest. We didn't get a source, but we have to shut down the Calvary. It is necessary to close the problem that makes it difficult, stressing the everyday life of the people there. Therefore, the Government of Hungary has decided to build the fast-track connection in any event. By the end of May, the Minister, Dr. Miklós Seszták, received the task of examining the possibility of turning it on, what is the most optimal opportunity and situation, with which this issue will finally be resolved. We will give a good answer to this question, since the work on this has been started. So I reaffirm that an important link for the region will be established. I am very confident that everything can be transmitted and passed on precisely, because many people have bad and false information about it. I ask you, Member, to help us to provide accurate information to all voters outside the circles of Members. The M4 will be built and will help the people who live there. Thank you for asking. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-16	The last among the speeches before today's agenda will be Mr Antal Rogán, leader of the Group, on behalf of Fidesz, on the Security Borderlock. Here you go. [[13.50]]
u2015-06-22-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to the subject that I marked as the title of my contribution to the agenda, allow me not to leave without saying that the Hungarian Socialist Party is speaking in this House about the price of gas, because if they were on the government today, my fellow Members, Ildikó Lendvai would certainly be the Minister of Gas Price, and I think that the Hungarian families could see the price of gas, because it would not be 10 percent less, but perhaps 25 percent more. Luckily, in recent years we have managed to achieve with a consistent policy that the prices of gas and electricity in Hungary have been greatly reduced, and we have achieved a reduction in the cost of gas and electricity, so I think that, fortunately, this is not the most important issue for Hungarian families today. And I am afraid that my socialist fellow Members are also trying to talk about this rather embarrassing subject for them in the case of gas prices, because I think they would like not to talk about one of the most important issues that is on the table of Hungarian public life today, and which we must definitely deal with. In recent months, we have all seen that Hungary has simply increased the number of immigrants crossing borders illegally to such an extent that we must say, fellow Members, this is no longer immigration, this is a migration of peoples. In view of the trends over the last three years, it is worth pointing out again that the number of immigrants crossing the border has increased more than 20 times by 2014 in Hungary. From 2014 to 2015 we see that if we look at trends in the first semester, this will be tripled again, so the number of people who attempt to cross the Hungarian border illegally and illegally may increase from 43,000 to up to 120,000, and certainly join those who try to enter Europe in this way to try to secure their livelihood as immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, We can experience the same trend not only in Hungary, but also in Europe. The European trend is that the number of illegal cross-border crossings has risen astoundingly many times. I believe that the wave of migration that has started so far has become one of the most difficult problems for Europe's countries, and indeed, let us be honest with them, it seems impossible for the Member States of the European Union to do so with the usual methods. In the European Union, it seems that everyone, since there is no common solution, has started to look for their own ways. We saw just a week ago that the two most important major Member States of the European Union, France and Germany, abandoned the Schengen agreement from one moment to the next and, using virtually violent means, reversed the Italian-French and Italian-German border immigrants who had previously entered Italy illegally. Ladies and gentlemen, In parallel, we have to face the fact that the number of applicants who Germany and Austria wish to bring back to Hungary for illegal immigrants who had arrived in Europe earlier in Hungary is over 15,000. Ladies and gentlemen, This problem is not only a Hungarian problem, it is a pan-European problem that, if there is no common European solution, we think that every country must do its duty. And the most important obligation we have undertaken at the time of accession to the European Union is that we will protect the common border between Hungary and Europe when we join the Schengen Treaty. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is the right decision that the Government has made to examine and establish the possibility of establishing a security border at the Serbian-Hungarian border. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Possibilities?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Without a border lock, we will not be able to resolve this issue. If the only common quota in the European Union is what Brussels remembers, then we must say that this will not keep it away, but, on the contrary, will attract illegal immigrants to Europe. This could be problems which are public security problems, which are problems with taking jobs, which are cultural problems, respect for law, protecting culture, and protecting jobs. This is the first place when the government and the ruling parties take their decisions responsibly. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the opposition groups here not to sweep this problem under the table; I would ask my fellow left-wing Members to stop their pro-immigration and emigration policies; they are right-handed. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would also like to ask my fellow Members to support the government's proposal for a solution, because I see that when we stepped forward, they suddenly backed out from behind the government. [[Tamás Sneider: Make it a border guard.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-18	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2015-06-22-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The government does not argue, but acts on this very important issue: halting migration. Indeed, as you have said, the most serious problem in the European Union today is illegal migration, the fight against immigration, and it is clear that the rules currently in force are not suitable for this very important problem and therefore need to be changed. The Hungarian government has never hidden its intention and this opinion. But in the meantime, while these common EU rules are in place, which we are naturally involved in, Hungary's government has decided to take decisions to ensure the safety of Hungary and the security of Hungarian people. And, as Mr. Group leader pointed out, according to the implementation of last week's government meeting, Mr.Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, at this week's government meeting, is making a proposal to the government to outline the steps needed to build a fence at the southern border. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the numbers that are currently on track for illegal migration are alarming. In response to the comments before the first agenda, I said that in the last weekend 1943 people came to Hungary, of which 1817 people were caught by the Hungarian border police in Serbian terms, and 59 367 people have applied for asylum from 1 January to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that if we did nothing, if the Hungarian authorities were to act according to the usual rules, the rules currently in force, this figure would rise to an unprecedented size by the end of the year, but obviously we have to act, and this is what the government is doing. However, I would like to thank Mr Group leader for the bill tabled last week and discussed by Parliament last week, which gives the Hungarian authorities the opportunity to examine, in future, not only where the applicant came from, but also through which transit countries he has come. It also aims to ensure that those who come from a safe transit country to Hungary should not be allowed to apply for political asylum. Hungary has so far been a transit country for illegal migration, but it will soon become a destination country, as Germany and Austria's opinion and action on this issue have radically changed, as Mr. Group leader said. I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, under the so-called Dublin procedure, 15 thousand requests have been made to the Hungarian authorities on this issue, which means that Hungary may potentially have to accept 15,000 people who have crossed the Schengen borders in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that Hungary is not able to do this. We need to make a difference. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the rules which allow the Hungarian authorities to take more stringent action, because this is in our national interest, in Hungary's interest, but it is also in the interests of the European Union, because we want to protect the Schengen borders most effectively. I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Foreign Ministers of the European Union, at their meeting in Luxembourg on Monday, have also taken the decision to launch the first detection phase of the Mediterranean military operation to combat illegal migration. So it is clear that illegal migration in the Mediterranean is being used by force to reduce human trafficking. I would also like to say that the Hungarian authorities, the Government of Hungary, are doing everything in their power to ensure that Hungary's security, the security of the Hungarian people, will continue in the future. To do so, I ask for the support of the Honourable Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. [[14.00]]
u2015-06-22-21	Dear Parliament, György László Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Péter Ágh, Fidesz Ágh. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: László Varju, independent; György László Lukács, Jobbik; György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2015-06-22-22	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our second extraordinary meeting, starting today, is coming up. I declare that the Government is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting in order to discuss 34 proposals. You can find out about the presentations on the website. We shall decide on the agenda of the sitting beginning today, on the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. No amendments to the agenda have been proposed from the factions. Dear House, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, at its meeting on 17 June, the Committee on Culture formed the Sub-Committee for Women's Dignity with 8 members, the president of which became Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I wish the subcommittee effective work on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:14 a.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Unprofessional regulation modification or new Fidesz market distribution? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is well-known that employees of the National Rescue Service, despite the unfairly low salaries, perform out of control every day. However, this respectable dedication is becoming less and less capable of counterbalanced operating conditions that continue to deteriorate. Despite all the efforts of the workers, permanent underfunding, shortage of numbers and increasing chaos in the health system are all more often leading to catastrophic consequences. From week to week, terrifying reports of ambulances sent from hospital to hospital and shocking long waiting times appear. It is also alarming that there are 898 settlements where no resident can still expect assistance within 15 minutes, even though in the event of a serious accident or sickness, the lives of any one of them may pass for a few minutes. In such a case, not only would they relieve the burden of the National Rescue Service, but they will put additional burdens on it. According to a regulation in March, health insurance for all outdoor events of more than 10 thousand people must be provided by the National Rescue Service. So far, these events have been provided by specialised entrepreneurs. This summer festival season is going to be a huge task, which is going to be all over the National Rescue Service. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In response to my question, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, this will be resolved by the rescue services at the expense of the 200 reserve vehicles. But is it believable that in the summer months, when the festivals cross across the country, this reserve will be sufficient to ensure all the events? By the way, is it right to use these reserves in this way? Can it be believed that the rescue service can meet this new obligation without further deterioration in basic tasks? There are two options, ladies and gentlemen. The first is that they didn't think about the consequences of the regulation amendment, and this makes it even more difficult for the rescue service, or the other is that they have thought about the consequences, and they are presumably preparing for the National Rescue Service to sign with a close friendly company in Fidesz. In this case, we are faced with another Fidesz market redistribution attempt. The latter scenario is confirmed by Bence Rétvári's response that the rescue service can involve an external undertaking in the implementation of its tasks. The amendment to the regulation is unacceptable for any explanation. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State if they are willing to withdraw the regulation. If it is not withdrawn, will the National Rescue Service be provided with the conditions for carrying out the task, if so, what additional number and equipment park are provided for it? Finally, if none of these are achieved, please specify who or who those lucky entrepreneurs will benefit from the redistribution of the market. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-22-24	Thank you, Congressman. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-22-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, It is not too little for us to hear, honourable Member, when, in the context of the rescue, you can only talk about the market and market distribution in the field of health. I do not know exactly whether your speech really meant concern for the health and safety of young people at the summer festivals, or whether it was a kind of statement of interest to certain service providers, from whom the OMSZ, the National Rescue Service, seems to take over this health protection task, is concerned about the market of those who are concerned, and actually spoke out here in Parliament to worry about these companies and their assignments. It was hard to make the exact difference between the two. However, it seemed to me that it was the profits of these companies that he regretted in his speech. We really trust the 7500 rescue workers who do superhuman work every day, do it during the year, and do it in the summer, even when they care for young people or older people at different festivals. I think that the most transparent organisation is the rescue service, the most well-organized ambulance service can also act in these places and protect safety, and the highest professional standards can be ensured by the ambulance service, precisely for the benefit of the recipients. This led the government's decision when we entrusted the security of young people at festivals to the National Rescue Service rather than private companies. This has also happened, as the National Rescue Service has already carried out 1,600 health insurances in the last year, but there were also private companies that did the same. However, in 200 cases, the National Rescue Service had to carry out the tasks here, care for the patients, transport them, even though the event organizer had a contract with private companies, but in the end the task was to provide rescue services. At this time, the rescue service had a legal opportunity and billed these costs, which, to this day, were largely not reimbursed to the National Rescue Service. These market companies have accepted their own commission fee, failed to perform the task, the ambulance service provided it, but the ambulance service has not been paid the compensation for it. That is why we have decided to give emergency services the opportunity for event insurance, as this is how the people who visit these festivals are safe. Of course, if the rescue service considers that there is a need to involve external capacity, it may conclude a cooperation agreement and request the assistance of other service providers. But at this point, the rescue service provides the professional standard necessary for everyone to preserve their health or be professional in order to involve them in a strict professional way, not in an opaque way, in a much more objective and transparent way. Thus, these high-risk events are also insured at the highest level. However, it was clear that the MSZP tried to provide as much space as possible for these private operators. Let me read to you how the number of registered ambulances changed annually from 2006 to 2010: 120 in 2006, 84 in 2007, 80 in 2008, 19 in 2009 and the number of ambulances purchased and put into service by 2010 was reduced to zero. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Compared to this, the Fidesz-KDNP has made a record because in 2014 184 new ambulances were put into service [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is there a doctor in it, or is it just iron?]] has never been on duty in the last 13 years, there weren't as many ambulances registered as in 2014. This number 184 is a decade and a half record. The socialists would have done better to strengthen the rescue service during their administration, not to try to create profit and business here as well for private companies. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-26	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-22-27	Thank you. I see you've almost convinced your own people, so let me read you last week's news, Mr. Secretary - okay? And then he'd say a few straight sentences after that. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. While a heat wave is sweeping through the capital on Sunday, multiplying the number of people who are sick, seeking help, eight cars from the National Rescue Service and their staff provided paid private health insurance for the race on Hungaroring. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[János Lázár: You probably had a hot flash this weekend! Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] You can make jokes here, my fellow Member, the fact is that during the second-degree heat alarm, there was therefore no ambulance on duty in New Palota, Matthias Land, Pesterzsébet, Dabason, Gödöllő and Szigetszentmiklós. Explain to them and laugh in their faces, honourable Members. The hundreds of thousands of people who were left without an ambulance because they were on pay-per-view with the employees and cars of the National Rescue Service! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you get ambulances?]] [[14.10]] Secretary of State, you're saying there are 200 spare cars for the ambulance service. [[It shows a picture of ambulances parked under trees.]] Do you think of these? Will they solve these questions with these? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: No, with what you bought!]] He has an unacceptable, cynical response, and it's not us we need to beat, it's the safety of people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's what we want! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-28	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. In addition to bringing home 50 people that seem to be a communication catch, when will they take the real steps to bring home thousands of our countrymen? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Czomba will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject. You have the floor, Congressman Wolf.
u2015-06-22-29	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, in relation to its weight and importance, there is little mention here of the issue of emigration between Parliament's walls. It is understandable for you, because this is an unpleasant subject for the government, but it is irresponsible that instead of discussing dialogue and suggestions for solutions, you will be silent and pretending that everything is okay here. It is typical that every time this issue comes up on opposition initiative, you do not respond to the substantive points, but explain that it is really an adventurous desire, opposition hysterical hysteria, and that you can continue with the excuses you have mentioned. Yet, everyone knows that the majority of immigrants, as economic refugees, were forced to go to another country because of their social situation. So it is not a problem to spend a certain amount of time abroad for education and language learning, because if they come home, the country also benefits from it, the problem is that because of the unpredictable situation at home, the unplanned future, the sudden government decisions, many people think that they have better opportunities abroad. Many surveys could be quoted, which report alarming data, one of which is the most recent research called "The Active Youths," which shows that in 2015 the proportion of university students and college students flirting with the idea of migration continued to increase, currently 37 percent of them claimed that they had plans to establish abroad; establishment is not a few months old, it is not a few months old study outside, it is a job, it is an establishment, which is very often a permanent loss of these countrymen. A few months ago, you're on your way home, young man. We welcome the announcement of which we have welcomed; we have welcomed it, because at last the government has realized that something must be done, and even as a self-critic, we can see the launch of the program, because if it really was just an adventure wish, if things were as rosy at home as you communicate, then such a program would not be needed. We have therefore considered the launch of the programme to be positive in itself, but its size and budget support are ridiculous. Do you really think that you want to help bring home 50 young people while there are hundreds of thousands of young people abroad? Do you really think that while there are billions of dollars for stadiums, government propaganda and a large number of unnecessary expenditures and that such a case of national strategic importance is worth a hundred million forints? Do you really think that they spend months experimenting and focusing on London as a whole while they're already late and hundreds of people leave the country every week? Dear Secretary of State, When do they realize how big the problem is? Why are you so facially low on money for such an important problem? Finally, why did they not vote in favour of Jobbik's proposal for a budget amendment, which would have helped to extend the programme and would have helped bring home thousands of young people, not 50? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-30	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-06-22-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that you have put this important issue back on the agenda and that we can change some sensible thoughts on this issue. Perhaps it is worth first examining the Hungarian specialty of migration and the responsibility of the current government or the government at all. I would like to remind you, but I'm sure you know that the Hungarian migration rate is now around 2-3 percent, while the Polish rate is 6 percent and in Romania it is 9 percent. Obviously, I cannot say that the Romanian government is doing three times worse than the Hungarian government; there is much more behind these figures. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that the number of 350 000 seen by the HCSO has been created since 1989, and there are three important dates when migration has jumped, not by accident: one is virtually the 2004 EU accession, the other is the crisis, the post-2008 crisis, and the third is the opening in 2011, when the German and Austrian labour markets are open, and so there is a significantly greater opportunity - and no pressure - for Hungarian workers to work in Austria or Germany. It is a very important issue, I think, that prevention, and here you can now claim the government's responsibility for what the Hungarian Government has done in the last 4-5 years for keeping young people under the age of 25 at home or getting to work. I would just like to mention, in fact, in a few thoughts, that employers benefit from the benefits of nearly 150 thousand young people under the age of 25 in the context of job protection actions, thus ensuring that these young people are able to work. We have launched the program with the first job guarantee program, at the moment more than 24,000 - 24,000! - working with this program. We have launched an internship programme to support the work experience of young people with apprenticeships, here there are more than 4,000 young people in the system at the moment, and I would like to mention the measures that we have taken in recent years. So I think that this is an important question, what can be asked of the government. I'm glad that you mentioned first that you're glad that this is your home, young man. The program has been launched at all. Indeed, it is certainly a fact that there are very many people abroad at the moment, out there, who have been forced, not as an opportunity, but as a compulsion, in recent years or even decades, to work abroad. Our goal here is to call our young people with good knowledge, good experience, skills and language skills home, and we have repeatedly emphasized that this 100 million HUF, the 50 people are obviously a drop in the sea, we fully agree with that, but we have to start somewhere, and this 100 million HUF is just 100 million more than any government has ever given young people the opportunity to do migration. Based on the latest data, I can tell you that more than 1,400 people registered on OFA's website, nearly 100 people joined the program, there are 63 people posted to work, so there is a realistic chance that this 50 will be available relatively soon, and our goal is to open the program not only to young people in London, but also to young people in Germany, Austria and other areas, as well as to the 100 million forints, if needed and needed, then the government will create, examine and probably create the possibility to expand this program. So I would like to ask my fellow Member to support, obviously, the government proposals that we have made over the past few years, in the light of the weight of the problem, feeling its weight. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-22-33	Thank you for the floor. I would have listened, the Secretary of State could have listed the measures that had been taken, but it is no accident that he did not continue. You may also feel how few these were, since all trends, all indicators, all surveys show an increase in the willingness to emigration in young people. If we have to choose between us who doesn't perceive the weight of the problem, then I think it's you who don't perceive it well. It was you who spent 100 million forints on this programme, while billions would not be enough. And you said that, of course, next year we will expand this program, but it is worth looking again at the action and the facts: in the next year's budget, the National Nonprofit Közszolgáltató Kft. The budget, which oversees this programme, is intended for HUF 260 million. [[14.20]] If we calculate that 50 out of 100 million forints are being brought home, then 130 out of 260 million forints are young people, so you think this is the big extension of the program, which is ridiculous. Next year, they want to bring home 130 young people instead of thousands of young people that cannot be accepted, and I continue to ask them to take this problem seriously [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and take appropriate action to its extent. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-34	Thank you very much. So the congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, the women of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. If it is up to the government, will there be a pay gap? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-06-22-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, You recently said in front of an audience at an architecture forum that we cannot compete with Western European wages in the next 20 years, so we cannot offer young people with a university degree or a good professional worker a wage offer that would be able to compete with Western European wages that fit their preparedness. Only one word would have to be exchanged to make the statement true: if we do not want to, we cannot compete with Western European wages in the foreseeable future or in 20 years. It is the government's responsibility that in Hungary, wages have continued to be cut off from Western wages instead of wage catch-up in recent years. According to the LMP, this is not the result of a necessary process, but of a government policy opening income scissors wide. Hungary has no chance of competing with Western wages because the government is trying to prevent this by any means possible. For Arab investors, this is a conscious policy by the Prime Minister and his government, who is busy with the cheapness and vulnerability of the Hungarian workforce. The Prime Minister's delusion is that only Hungary can be competitive with low wages, replaceable workers and weakened trade unions. You are now not seeing in this country that Hungary's biggest problem is workers' poverty, that people cannot make a living on work income. The direct consequence of this is the emigration caused by the government, which means that, every step of five years, it wants to derail Hungary into a assembly plant where vulnerable workers work for one of the lowest salaries in the Union. The tax package adopted last week, including a 1 percentage point reduction in the single-key tax, is another conscious step by the government to prevent wage catch-up and increase the pay gap between the poor and the rich. While international organisations, including the OECD, warn one after another that income inequality is bad for the economy, the Hungarian government expands the distance between low and high-income people. Today, in Hungary, two thirds of the taxpayers earn under the net average wage of around HUF 150,000. This also corresponds to a level of one or two lower income levels in Western Europe, taking into account prices. In order for this to change, a government policy to support wage catch-up would be necessary in the first place, so that no Hungarian wage can be paid under the minimum wage. Do you have any plans for a cabinet that calls itself the government of hardworking people? Or does this government cycle continue to cut wages from the Westerners? [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-06-22-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-22-37	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, Although I wasn't talking about what you asked me at the architecture forum in Szekszárd, I am happy to answer your question because of the following. In Szekszárd I asked the architects of Somogy County, Baranya County and Fejér County and Tolna County for help to reduce the terrible wage differences in Western and Central Europe by improving the lifestyle in which all Hungarians live, or in which we all live, how to change the natural and built environment, although we all have to live our everyday lives with relatively low wages, Hungarians, but compared to this, the built and natural environment in which we are born and in which we live, both our children, our parents and ourselves, are attractive and retainable. We talked to the architects in Szeged, Debrecen, Győr and Szekszárd, about 500 architects about how to make settlements' sustainability attractive with construction, investment and development. Admitting that although wage differences have not increased in the last ten years between Western Europe and Central Europe, but have not been substantially reduced, Western Europe and the Atlantic world have an incredible absorption capacity. The best Hungarian engineers, the best Hungarian graduates and the best Hungarian professionals receive jobs with wages that the Hungarian economy cannot compete with today. You are right about many things, but if this were not the economic arrangement of Hungary, we would not be able to give this much to public sector workers, for example. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that ten years after Hungary joined the European Union, Hungary is now paying 30% of the average wages of the European Union. Thus, there is 30 percent of the average salary of the European Union in Hungary after ten years of membership of the European Union. It is possible to ask what we have done in the past ten years. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in purchasing power this may be worth 40-50 percent. And before you break a stick over the government's head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Poland is the same as Hungary compared to the average purchasing power of the European Union or its wage level: 30-40 percent, the Czech Republic is a few percent more, and Slovakia is less, so there is no substantial difference in wages between the V4 countries. I would also like to say that between 2004 and 2010 there has been no meaningful step towards reducing this wage gap. We started at 25 percent, and we've managed to work off about 5 percent wage difference over the past four years. So when Hungary joined the European Union, the Hungarians received 24-26 percent of the average wage, now slightly more than 30 percent. So much has been achieved with the last three years' wage increase policy. Here, I would like to remind you that Hungary was the country where the minimum wage grew to the third largest extent in the European Union. As far as income differences are concerned, the OECD report has certainly been thoroughly studied. Given that Hungary is still among those countries with the lowest income gap in the territory of the European Union, we were in the first three in 2010, and we are still in the top five in 2015, so Hungary has been pursuing a pro-equality economic policy for 30 years to date, resulting from this social arrangement, whether well or not. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that it is true that in Hungary the wages of teachers have increased 42 percent over the last three years, so the state, as an employer, is trying to give rise to wage increases with careers in the public sector. For 700,000 civil servants, on average, we can say that we have been through a 17-20 percent wage increase. I would like to add some more data to your attention: the gross minimum wage was 73,500 forints, today 105,000 forints, the net average salary for two children was 138 thousand, today 179 thousand forints, 131 thousand forints for three children, and now 203 thousand forints. In three years, I think it's a very big achievement for the government. Please accept that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-38	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2015-06-22-39	I don't accept it. Minister, I cannot accept your answer because of the pro-equality policy. By the way, I was looking forward to your reply, because I think that what you said in front of an audience at the architecture forum is true. In fact, if this social and economic policy continues and this is what the government will continue to do, then, let alone within 20 years, and even 50 years, we will not be able to catch up with Western European wages. We have repeatedly said that single-key personal income tax increases the distance between the poorer and the high-income. Now this 1 percent reduction, which you communicate by leaving 120 billion forints to people, is in favour of those with the highest incomes, and to the poorer, let's say, to the hundred thousand forints, it is only a thousand forints a month's extra income. So the gap is increasing, and because of this economic policy, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you.
u2015-06-22-40	Thank you very much. So the congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 106 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, István Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What does the Ministry of the Interior intend to do in order to act more decisively? It's an address. Mr István Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2015-06-22-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] From a refugee point of view, Hungary is one of the most charged countries in Europe compared to the population, with more than 60 thousand illegal immigrants arriving in Hungary this year, more than last year. Positions on this issue are being tightened across Europe. France has recently closed the Italian border for immigrants. Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg have announced that this year they will send immigrants back to where they first crossed the territory of the Union and registered their asylum applications. The German authorities have indicated that 15 thousand decisions are being taken to return illegal border crossings to Hungary. The authorities of Luxembourg, Switzerland and Germany informed the Hungarian party that they were sending illegal immigrants back to Hungary on charter flights in the summer. This is why it is important that we be able to accept the amendment of the law that would allow the Hungarian police to reverse illegal immigrants who attempt to illegally cross the Hungarian border from a safe third country. With the exception of Ukraine, Hungary has only neighbouring countries where no one's life is threatened, i.e. it can be considered a safe state. Thus, the Hungarian authorities would only be able to accept asylum applications from illegal border crossings who are not trying to cross the Hungarian border from a safe third country. Dear Secretary of State, Europe's borders must be protected, and a significant part of Hungarian society agrees. The left is anti-Hungary and pro-immigrant propaganda, while the Hungarian people expect significant restrictions on immigration. So far, 800,000 people have returned the questionnaire on immigration in the context of the national consultation. On the basis of the data available so far, the overwhelming majority of respondents, more than 80 percent, believe that tougher, decisive action is needed by both the EU and Hungary. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the Ministry of the Interior intends to do in order to act more decisively. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-42	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government doesn't argue, the government acts. At present, one of the most serious challenges facing the European Union is the issue of illegal immigration. This problem affects Hungary the most seriously among the Member States. If we look at the number of asylum seekers in terms of population or GDP, then we are the first country to come to most refugees. The situation requires an urgent solution and immediate and decisive action by all of us. Hungary cannot afford to wait any longer. In the last 72 hours, the police have caught a total of 1943, of which 1817 people in the Serbian context, due to the illegal border crossing. While in 2014, the asylum authority registered 42 777 asylum seekers, this figure is still 59 367 people this year. A large part of refugees are not real refugees, there is no war in their country, they are not persecuted by them or their families, they are not in danger of life because of their nationality, religion or political creed; they come from a safe country, so there is no justification for granting refugee status. By applying for asylum, protection granted by international law is abused. It is to prevent this from happening to the House, which is about asylum, T/5136. Proposal 1. This proposal provides an opportunity for the authorities to examine, in future, not only where the applicant comes from but also through which transit countries he has come to Hungary. Its aim is that those who come from a safe transit country to Hungary should not be allowed to apply for political asylum. In the framework of the Dublin procedure, some 15 thousand requests were received from Member States this year to recover asylum seekers. This number is several times the number of requests received during the same period in recent years. Dear Parliament, According to the Government's decision, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér must provide information on the preparations for closing the Hungarian-Serbian border with a fence on Wednesday. It should be stressed that Hungary is not violating any international legal obligation by setting up a fence, nor any international treaty. The decision of the government is not unique: the Greek-Turkish border, the Bulgarian-Turkish border also had fence construction, and Spanish cities in North Africa also defend themselves against immigration pressure. At present, EU rules allow very little restrictions on the freedom of asylum seekers, and it is therefore necessary to revise current standards. We continue to say that everyone must protect their own borders, so the government supports any proposal that will help solve this serious problem. The government is committed to protecting Hungary and the Hungarian people against immigration pressure. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-22-45	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear that the situation has changed in its entirety since the number of illegal border crossings exceeded 60,000 yesterday. But not only is this problem on the table, but also the fact that the Schengen border is practically not working, the bureaucrats of the European Union are unable to answer that question. And on the basis of the figures and prognostication, it can be seen that it is virtually no longer immigration, but a very serious movement of people, migration from North Africa, Central Africa and West Asia to Hungary. Therefore, I think that the measures that the government is taking, and the laws that lie before Parliament to determine safe states, and I am thinking of the technical closure, are not only protecting Hungarian people, not only Hungary's borders, but also the borders of the European Union and all our European citizens. Thank you very much, I accept your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy with the title "The number of infringements against employees" increasing year by year. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, has the floor.
u2015-06-22-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, regulatory systems affecting the world of work have been disrupted. Think, for example, of the Labour Code - 2012 - of what was called into existence; they turned me upside down, eliminating the kind of security that meant legal certainty for people in the world of work. But they also eliminated various organizations that regulated and helped people's lives, either reduced or merged them. And in addition, the reduction is true of the fact that a multitude of professionals have abandoned these systems. And the result is that the legal certainty of workers is increasingly decreasing. So there's a result, but it's a devastating result. It is devastating because a reduction in legal certainty leads to vulnerability. Look, the results of the first quarter of this year's investigation show that irregular employment has been brought to life in terms of 62 percent of workers. This rate has increased by 11 percent over a year. But if we look not at workers, but at employers, then we see that the rate of irregularities committed for employers is 58 percent. In Hungarian, more than every second employer commits irregularities. And what kind of irregularities? Some are very serious: undeclared employment, black employment, 14 percent of workers were employed black, based on study experience. But if we look not at the issue of black employment, but at how people are treated and how they are managed or how the working time register system is managed, it is visible that it affects every third-fourth employee. Of course it does adversely affect you, because if you don't keep your working time records correctly, the result is that you get negative results in wages, supplements, rest periods and many others. [[14.40]] And in terms of salary payments, the inspectors also faced many torsos, which, as an example, instead of paying the guaranteed minimum wage, gave a minimum wage to the person or, where appropriate, not even the minimum wage. So, I don't want to expand the view any more, what I really want to ask you is why workers are not protected from these exploitations, from these vulnerability. Why not ensure that those authorities, organisations with a certificate of inspection, are able to detect these situations in a fair way, rather than prevent them from developing them? And what do you intend to do about the rise in such serious situations of 11 percent over the course of a year? I would like to await the Secretary of State's reply. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-48	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-06-22-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The report on the experience of labour inspection in the first quarter of 2015 indeed contains data showing that the number of workers affected by the infringement increased from 51 per cent to 62 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year. However, it is not possible to draw direct and general conclusions from the comparative control data of a period and their relationship with each other, as the data is influenced by a significant number of factors: what sectors were controlled by the authority during that period, what number of employees were employed by the audited employers, whether action or target checks were carried out, and if so, which areas and areas were affected. For example, the proportion of typical infringements varies from sector to sector; you know that black labour is typically higher in the construction sector, in agriculture than in other sectors. In the longer term, the number of workers affected by the infringement shows a fluctuating trend: in 2010 and 2011 it was only around 50 per cent, while before that, in 2007 and 2009 it was 63 to 65 per cent. However, it is essential for the interpretation of the relatively high proportion of employers themselves, of workers affected by the infringement, compared to all those affected by checks to take into account: in order to increase the effectiveness of the checks, the labour authority should emphasise that checks are carried out in the most infected areas in the previous period and in those employers where irregular employment is most presumed. This will, of course, also result in higher relations between employers and workers affected by the infringement. The labour authority's annual audit plan has been a priority for years to reduce undeclared work, protect workers' material and work-related interests. Irregularities related to the management of the working time register are mostly intended to expose wage and working time infringements and are therefore always a priority target of investigation, similar to the detection of infringements of the guaranteed minimum wage. In the last five years, the labour authority has carried out labour checks with some 90 thousand employers, and the checks have covered the employment conditions of nearly 900 thousand workers. This relatively high rate of detected infringements reflects precisely the preparedness, high quality work and more targeted and effective organisation of the audit staff of the audit bodies. Thank you for the floor. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-22-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find this a sad explanation, Mr. Secretary of State, and it's unfortunate what you've done behind your back. You should ensure that, in the interests of the people, the authorities do their job in such a way that, on the one hand, if possible, they prevent these problems from occurring and, on the other hand, you, as a government, should be in the best interests of the people. Not as Mr Lazarus just said, the minimum wage grosses up; the purchasing power should rise, and then you can be proud of what you have to say. You've destroyed legal certainty, you're pursuing an anti-worker policy. Friends and pereputty make sure there's hundreds, thousands of people who do their work for nothing, that's your policy. You know, when you get 800 million forints in dividends for a man who spends 157 million forints on 225 people's wages, it's shameful. That's your policy! It's a shame, it's a shame! How can this answer be accepted? ! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-52	Thank you very much. So you won't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Will the tourist tax disappear? What about the support of the municipalities? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2015-06-22-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has only been published in the press for a month, and the stakeholders have been informed that due to a different provision of the 2015 Finance Act, many municipalities will not receive the budget support for the tourism tax collected. In the past, this was 2 forints after every tax forint collected, which is 1.5 forints or 1.55 forints at the moment, but in the case of increased, higher industrial tax power, some municipalities do not receive the state aid for this. The tourism organisations responded by pressing for a solution, but in recent times press releases from Mr Glattfelder Béla, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, suggested that it would be worth abolishing the tourism tax originally introduced in support of local tourism, along with the State supplement which contributed. The Secretary of State's proposal, the adoption of such a proposal, would leave nearly HUF 10 billion at state level, which the government could spend on other areas. On the other hand, Jobbik has been pushing - and has submitted it to Parliament in the form of various motions - for the government to reduce the VAT burden on tourism, from 27 per cent to 5 per cent of the VAT on accommodation services. This proposal has always been swept off the table every time we submitted it, and it could really boost tourism. At the moment, you are planning to take a resource away from the settlements, from which the municipalities that live mainly from tourism can develop, increase the quality of the services, so this could lead to a decline in tourism. Dear Secretary of State, How seriously should we take this proposal? Is this proposal real? Are you aware that dozens of municipalities would be deprived of their ability to operate and develop? Why has the Government not supported Jobbik's proposals to reduce the VAT on tourism and to reduce the VAT on accommodation services? And why are you thinking about opportunities that would make the situation of local governments living in Hungary even more difficult and would not contribute to the promotion and development of Hungarian tourism? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Béla Glattfelder.
u2015-06-22-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your questions. At the right time, the national tourism forum will be set up tomorrow, where many of the issues you have just raised will obviously arise. Let's start at the beginning. As far as VAT is concerned, accommodation services are still at the rate of 18% reduced, and setting a lower tax rate would obviously be a problem in the context of EU law. The lowest discount rate currently includes accommodation services. The question of tax power and compensation, since this is the rule in force this year in the case of tourism tax, is indeed justified, and I would like to inform you that we are currently working on reducing this withdrawal next year, and that there is more for local authorities and for the development of tourism. As regards the tourist tax and its addition, the government does not have any plan to eliminate it. Various professional organisations raise various proposals, the government's job is to examine these issues. [[14.50]] There has always been a debate on tourism tax and on the state supplement, which is primarily justified by the use of these tax revenues and the addition. Indeed, there are several kinds of proposals. These proposals are very wide-ranging and generally focus on how the state supplement could be put at the service of tourism as effectively as possible. For the most important - and I share your opinion - is that those in Hungary who want to relax and take vacations get the best service for their money, can spend their freedom in Hungary most fully. Therefore, no change can be made that would result in no more benefits for tourism, which would result in less money being made for this purpose. The real goal is that holidaymakers in Hungary receive the best possible services for their money. Of course, such proposals are welcome to be heard and considered by the government, but it must be seen that this whole sector is operating in very diverse interests, because in many cases local authorities can express conflicting interests because they fear their financial stability. Therefore, before any such decision is taken, it is imperative to consult with the municipalities and seek a compromise with them. If it is possible to find a compromise that serves both the interests of tourism businesses, the interests of local governments and the interests of those wishing to take a vacation, I would be happy to embrace and present such a proposal to the Parliament. If we can get this result, I hope that Parliament and you, Member, will support this amendment. However, we are very far from it, because interests are still very, very diverse. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-22-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that there is no plan to reduce or eliminate the state aid that is currently being paid for tourism tax. I hope that will not be the case in the future. I do not agree, because I think it does not correspond to the reality that, on the basis of EU principles or legislation, VAT on accommodation services could not be reduced to a minimum of up to 5%, which could generate or further strengthen domestic tourism, as it would allow more favourable accommodation rates. I do not agree that the government is doing its best to improve and boost domestic tourism. I'm afraid that's not true. The latest example is the closing of the Sunday store, which the government has not reviewed. A previous clearly wrong decision, a clear failure decision, is that the opening of shops on Sunday in tourist areas is not possible, making it difficult for hundreds of thousands of holiday homes to live. Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-58	So you won't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The National Rescue Service." Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2015-06-22-59	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, several reports have been published that rescue services are doing lifesaving under difficult conditions and are at all underfunded by the ministry. By reading the budget, however, it is obvious that the National Rescue Service will receive a significant bonus from the budget planned for 2016 compared to the previous year. The government has also allocated significant amounts to the renewal and efficient rescue management of the machine fleet of the National Rescue Service, which can improve the country's rescue coverage. The goal of the National Rescue Service is to reach the 15-minute arrival time, thus increasing the chances of those in distress to survive, or to survive the accident with a lower degree of health damage. Several aspects need to be taken into account in the development of the speed of assistance. On the one hand, it is necessary to optimise the spatial location of rescue stations, to install any newly built stations in an appropriate location and to modernise those already operating. In order to quickly reach the person or persons in distress, it is also necessary to have a modern and adequate number of vehicles. In addition to the speed of the arriving ambulances, it is also essential that adequate medical equipment is installed in the ambulance or in the ambulance. This is necessary to enable rescue doctors to work with the most modern instruments in the so-called prehospital period, so that they can get into trouble even during their arrival in the hospital. receive care under technical conditions in the last century. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what improvements are expected at the National Rescue Service. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-60	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-22-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the National Rescue Service was also in a difficult situation in 2010. I think we are all convinced that when people in need, people in accidents, fall into the hands of the paramedics, their lives may depend on how well-equipped the ambulance service is, how well-paid the workers are, and not looking for other jobs for themselves, but well-trained professionals at the ambulance service, and how well-equipped ambulances and rescue stations are to treat the sick. This is an extremely important task for the country, and it also requires a huge sacrifice from the people working there. This is why it was important for this government to increase the budget support of the rescue service to a considerable extent over the last five years. Where did we start in 2010? Forint 23.4 billion was the support of the rescue service, and now we stand to see that, while it grew to 32 billion in 2014, it is now 36 billion forints in the budget to be adopted. So in five years, the amount of money that the rescue service can manage has increased from 23 billion to 36 billion forints. In any case, that's a 50 percent increase in the ambulance service in five years. There was a lot to replace, since they left quite difficult relations with the former government, mainly liberals. We hope that this operating surplus, which meant an average salary increase of 40,000 forints for rescue workers, was able to keep many good professionals there. We want to continue this work. The health wage increase due next year will also be available to paramedics from HUF 12.8 billion, so we hope that more people there will feel that they can earn some more next year, but on average it has already been completed in the last five years. It's the human part, the human part of the ambulance service. And the other thing that is very important, as you said, is the equipment of rescue stations and the number and good equipment of ambulances. TIOP 2.2.1. As part of the project, we launched an 11 billion HUF development project at the emergency services, precisely to improve the infrastructure. Twenty-two new rescue stations have been built and built in Hungary. We hope that these construction works will be over by October. In addition, we have upgraded 60 existing rescue stations, as the conditions there were not suitable for high-level rescue, where appropriate. Our goal in selecting these locations was to get the ambulance in 90 percent of the country within 15 minutes. These are the aims of optimal coverage for rescue stations where ambulances can start. This work, this development, this renovation and construction is on schedule and can be completed by October 2015 at the moment. Of course, mutual cooperation with local authorities in the field of building permits and others has also been well achieved. In this project we acquired a total of 178 ambulances and ambulances. This means that two of the so-called B-type fully equipped ambulances get to all stations. [[15.00]] So we can set up two new ambulances for the new transfer stations. Since 2010, more than 300 ambulances have been placed on the market from the Fidesz-KDNP government budget support. Here I have just described these rates, and we have also made a record of the number of ambulances installed in one year. At the beginning of this year, 21 ambulances out of HUF 500 million, followed by 32 ambulances, worth HUF 770 million. In addition, next year's budget includes HUF 2 billion for the improvement of motor vehicles. The modern electronic backup management system received HUF 500 million in support, and we also tried to install ambulances with medical devices. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's why we're confident that the objective I've given you is the ambulance arriving within 15 minutes...
u2015-06-22-62	Thank you.
u2015-06-22-63	...will indeed be insured in 90 percent of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-64	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Vejkey if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-22-65	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. The aim of the National Rescue Service is to ensure that the conditions of the rescue station are maintained throughout our country, for everyone in need, with the same chance. Thank you for the government's allocation of additional serious financial resources to the rescue service in order to achieve this important social goal, in order to make saving lives and helping those in need even faster and more effective. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We're moving to immediate questioning. Sándor Burány, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of the National Economy an immediate question: "About the Contributors." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask Mr Burány, President of the Commission, whether he will accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Among other things, you started your governance with an ambition to stop high public salaries. True, their practice and promise did not last until today. As early as 2013, you changed the law that state leaders cannot earn more than HUF 2 million a month. This change of legislation has allowed unrealistic actions to take place in the National Bank of Hungary. Looks like once your people are sitting there, nothing's expensive anymore. Dear Secretary of State, I'll just give you some examples. President György Matolcsy is still relatively modest with his monthly income of nearly HUF 2.4 million; not so Ádám Balog, vice-president of the Monetary Council. He holds several positions in addition to his position as Vice-President, including the Hungarian Pénzverő, Diósgyőr Paper Factory, the National Deposit Insurance Fund and two foundations founded by the Hungarian National Bank. He earns 4.8 million forints a month of these and his monthly salary. But Péter Polt's wife, who is the managing director of the central bank, was equally good, and according to official data, her salary cost nearly HUF 5 million. [[György Balla intervenes.]] Dear Secretary of State, They should also say that while you made this possible with the amendment of the law, when György Matolcsy took office, the total salary was less than HUF 400 million per month at the Hungarian National Bank, but the amount of wage payments exceeded HUF 1 billion in the last year. Secretary of State, how is it with you? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-06-22-68	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-06-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my opinion, before a socialist politician asks a question, always look back. [[Dr. István Józsa: We know, PSZF!]] Look back because during their eight-year governance, they have decided on one or two things, and what kind of vehemency and what questions you are asking, it is worth considering from the point of view of credibility. After all, Mr Burány forgot to tell the Hungarian National Bank President, who was elected here in the Hungarian Parliament, what was the gross monthly salary of András Simor. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You took it back!]] You forgot to tell me this, so I'll tell you: 8 011 800 forints/month. [[Fidesz. Fidesz. Fidesz. György Balla: Do you still have the nerve to talk? Dr. István Józsa intervenes. Zoltán Pride: The others?]] György Matolcsy is looking for exactly a quarter of this, like András Simor. They're yelling behind my back to the others. Yeah, the vice president's salary wasn't any different. One of the Vice-Presidents had HUF 6 million,409,000. [[György Balla: Bravo! That was a good question.]] while the other one owns 5 million 608 thousand forints. The current VP payments amount to HUF 1 million 700 and HUF 1 million 800 thousand. Even with the bonus that the Member mentioned, the salary of the current Vice-Presidents of the MNB at your time does not exceed one third of the salary of the current Vice-Presidents. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then why is there a billion-dollar wage?]] I think that the government does respect the payment of the heads of the Hungarian National Bank by law, and the salary of the heads of the Hungarian National Bank is, to an appropriate extent, also low in international comparison. So the question is both uncredited and untrue. Thank you very much. [[John Lazarus: Insolent! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-70	Thank you very much. In a moment, Congressman Burány will have the floor.
u2015-06-22-71	Mr. Secretary. You don't change. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Neither do you!]] It works exactly like a broken jukebox in a bad country bar. [[János Lázár: We are asking for this on behalf of the people of Főkövesd! Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] - whatever happens, he's always doing that old hit. Mr. Secretary. I'd like to recall it to your brief memory. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that you changed it in 2013, with your vote, is the law that has now made these payments possible. Or are you saying that if you have been appointed by previous governments or a parliament to lead someone, you have to reduce your salary, but if it's about your attorney general's wife, you can earn an instant HUF 5 million? [[György Balla: Oh, how weak!]] Mr. Secretary. I know you don't do that, but make an exception, try to give me a straight, clean, honest answer to my question: do you like your own trash, or don't you? Try to answer me. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-72	Thank you. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-73	Thank you very much for the recognition and praise of the Member for the parliamentary majority of Fidesz [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've got the wrong idea.]] He admitted that Fidesz did take the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank to a quarter. [[Dr. István Józsa: The wife of Polt...!]] Congressman! It can be continued in Parliament to bring other people's salaries here by name. Well, I'm sorry, I'll tell you this in your way. Do you know what your salary is? Ninety-nine thousand forints, more than nine times the minimum wage. [[How much is yours?]] He earns four times as much income here, while otherwise he earns other people's wages. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] you are manyall or few, earning four times as much income as the average salary in Hungary. Tell me, Congressman. [[Zoltán Pride: You're pathetic!]] Does it make sense to question people's incomes here in Parliament untruely? Because we don't think so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, Mr. Head of Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is the brokerage scandal closed? It's an address. Gábor Vona, the leader of the faction, has the floor.
u2015-06-22-75	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, It is safe to say that the most serious financial abuse of the last 25 years was the series of broker scandals that came to light in the spring. When the whole case broke out and the names of the first two companies became known, it could be thought or suggested that this was perhaps an inheritance left with us from the previous socialist governments, in which the government, you are solely indirectly responsible for the lack of proper financial supervision. [[15.10]] But when the names of Quaestor and Karcag's company came to light, it became clear to many that what we are dealing with here was not just a socialist broker scandal, but a socialist and fidesz broker scandal, and that you could be burdened not only with indirect but also with direct responsibility for the emergence of this broker scandal. There are a number of neural points, question marks, questions that have not yet been clarified about this, and it is very good to have a law that tightens financial supervision. Whether it's good or not, the future will decide. It is also important that compensation for the victims is started. Whether this is going to be successful or not, the future will decide. But there is a third aspect, Prime Minister, which you are suspiciously avoiding. This is the unraveling of the political threads, the designation of the political parties and, where appropriate, the sanctioning of them. There are several such neural points, there are several such question marks in the air, but I would like to ask you now, Prime Minister, on today's immediate question. And this is what's supposed to be: there were people who were fleeing money from the Quaestor in the days before the broker scandal, the Quaestor scandal. I would like to ask, Prime Minister, that you declare the members of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction personally, aware of their criminal liability, whether there is anyone among you who has taken money from Quaestor in the last few days, or a family member, or any economic interest. Prime Minister, I ask you to answer this question straight, honest and clear. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-76	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-06-22-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can answer you directly to contact the President of the National Bank, who will be happy to provide you with all the information. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-78	We have a rejoinder for the leader of the faction.
u2015-06-22-79	Prime Minister! The representatives of Jobbik have already turned to the other Members of the Parliament. I think your answer was also a confession. If you had nothing to hide in this matter, I do not know what would prevent your fellow Members from commenting on it individually. By the way, I encourage Members to speak freely about this, even regardless of the Prime Minister's response. Do not let some Members' crimes or specific illegal practices cast a shadow of suspicion on the entire Fidesz-KDNP fraction. And I would also ask you to give me a straight and honest answer. Of course, it is possible to avoid it, but TV viewers and we can see very well that you are avoiding it. I want you to stop avoiding this subject, and I want you to be clear about it. Therefore, I would ask the Prime Minister to reconsider his willingness to tell the members of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction whether they have taken money from Quaestor in the last few days, either their family members or their economic interests. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-80	Thank you. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-06-22-81	Mr President, There are many qualities that you don't like when you show up with a private person, even when you're in a party. We don't like sneaky people, we don't like sneaky parties. We don't like sneaky questions either. If you have any suspicions and have any specific questions, ask [[That's what we're doing.]] And we'll answer. And we refuse to be sneaky. [[That's the sneaky thing.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who will be accounted for? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader.
u2015-06-22-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, At the height of May 27, you said that the European Commission's altus mandate is the case of party funding in the direction of the Democratic Coalition. It didn't even bother him that the contract hadn't been concluded, and a son hadn't been transferred to it, and you had already assumed that there was a hidden party funding. But before they make a noise, here's a photo. [[He's showing it to me.]] There are two young men on it; one is your Secretary of State and the other is a János Kóka. On this very day, they were together in Singapore, and on this day János Kóka represented a group of companies, the Cellum group, in the business delegation accompanying the government, in which, that no, Altus was involved, in which you considered the case of hidden party financing on the same day; he represented Ferenc Gyurcsány's company. In John Kóka's pocket, the diplomat passport that was obviously not seen here was stashed in his pocket during the count. Mr. Prime Minister, Previously, János Kóka accompanied you as a member of such a delegation, in Japan, Saudi Arabia, and said that János Kóka, of course, could give a credible background to the presence of the Prime Minister; so you became the exit man of Ferenc Gyurcsány. You are working to get as much dividends as possible through the company that you have accused of party financing, while Ferenc Gyurcsány's businessman side contributes to the success of the Eastern opening. Do you not see any contradiction between the two acts of 27 May, that, on the one hand, you are writing a parliamentary resolution condemning Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, while, as a member of the government's business delegation, the Gyurcsány company is watching. Doesn't this mean that you're hiding party funding if you're going abroad for the success of the Gyurcsány company? Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against you and Ferenc Gyurcsány having such a good time with each other, my question is, who do you think you're stupid in this country? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-06-22-84	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-06-22-85	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The season with the guy, the straw with the hay, it's not good to mix. The government's business delegations look like this. When we travel somewhere with the intention of helping Hungarian entrepreneurs working in that country, we can apply for this trip. The participation fee has to be paid, then you can come out and negotiate. It is also common for us to discuss whether we should do any pre-screening with these entrepreneurs. We do some kind of national security screening, but it doesn't answer the question of whether to do a political screening. For example, could a business delegation traveling with the Hungarian government be a communist, or could it be, for example, a person who was in office in the previous government, but is now active in the private sector? This has been a long debate between us, and we have decided that Hungary's interest is that the people on the left once played a role, but the people working in business, if they believe that they can conclude contracts abroad for the benefit of themselves and the country, there is no obstacle to their participation in the government's business delegation. That's the decision we made, it's a decision in principle, and that's what we're going to do in the future. The specific former minister mentioned here can also come within this framework if he pays the participation fee, within the framework of the government delegation, for foreign business negotiations. That's all I can tell you about the basic principle. What this has to do with the illicit party financing of the Democratic Coalition from the European Union, i.e. from European public money, I do not see it yet, but perhaps I will see more clearly after the next question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-86	Thank you, Prime Minister. In return, I'll give the floor to the leader of the group.
u2015-06-22-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would not go into the semantic debate about who we consider left in this country, and I can only express my hope that, of course, many small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary can apply for this noble journey. However, Prime Minister, the connection is that on exactly the same day, you accused a group of Members sitting in Parliament by concluding a treaty with the European Commission, although there was no factual basis for this. As it happens, the company you've accused is represented by János Kóka as a member of a government delegation. By the way, not only János Kóka on the Saudi Arabian road, you also said so yourself. He praised this particular route, where it was helped so that Ferenc Gyurcsány could extract as much dividends from the Altus as possible, because it is extremely cheap compared to the quality of the Hungarian workforce, and it is also extremely vulnerable. So in Hungarian, you go to the East by negotiating with Ferenc Gyurcsány's company on the skin of Hungarian people, on the working conditions of Hungarian people. That's the thing. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-88	Thank you. The Prime Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-06-22-89	I will still need some arguments to understand the context precisely and to run the big curve that leads from Saudi Arabia to spending European Union public money in Hungary, but I will not do that here. Perhaps next time, we can get similar information or explanations from you. However, I would like to underline and repeat the starting point. Although I know that it is counterverse, that they argue that moral and political aspects can be brought up, but yet we try not to say that we always succeed, but we try to walk in the way that if there are entrepreneurs who are not connected to the right, and who are obviously linked to the left, but who are able to carry out economic activities that are useful to the country, then the government will also give them the support that they otherwise give everyone in order to have more jobs and higher salaries for Hungarian people. It's our basic position. That's the only thing you can count on in the future, because that's what we're doing. If we do something wrong, we only do it wrong if we deviate from this basic principle in practice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.20]]
u2015-06-22-90	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Can land policy be different if someone can get a green baron dog skin for himself? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2015-06-22-91	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, Member of the LMP, attacks the public land lease system in a continuous and indeterminate manner, while it was recently revealed that he was also interested in his family and interests as a beneficiary of the programme for farmers. What's more, he wanted to acquire a large estate in a scandalous way in the lease proposal he defrauded. While he is pleased with the role of the advocacy of small farms, because of his greedy hunger for land, I quote him: he seeks oligarchy. But not only would the estates have been taken from fifty local farmers by the small farmer's party representative in the words LMP, but also, according to the news, by creating a network of companies and foundations from his interests, he made the ill-famous Norwegian fund, and also made Swiss civilian money. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The interests of Róbert Benedek Sallai and the members of the representative's family have been billed, while they have gained considerable sums in a smart way. In Parliament, the Member described the earth programme with 59 negative indications: from insanity to debauchery, there was much among abusive expressions, while his own family and interests gained such areas of interest. Does that list apply to them? Let's get this straight. How much agricultural support did the vehement representative, preaching as a moralist, grow, while he feared the small farmers from the national cabinet that created the first system of land applications in support of the Hungarian agricultural history, the small estates, the agricultural-middle class? Dear Minister, In this regard, I ask you: How much state aid did Róbert Benedek Sallai put in his pocket, in addition to the fact that he also snuck from the Norwegian fund as a Balliberal Payer to the LMP representatives? From what source did you play the small farmer? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-92	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-06-22-93	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think it is very useful that this issue has been raised. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] because we can give you the answer to whether the policy that LMP is pursuing is really different. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Can politics be different? Whether we are dealing with a different rural policy, or rather with a case-by-case example of the increase in capital of such a tender, on behalf of Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, who, I see, is not here in this Chamber because of his other urgent public tasks. [[Interjection in the ranks of the governing parties: Call for proposals! Intercoms.]] He's either applying somewhere, or he's growing the land he's been given from the state land program, obviously. It is undoubtedly a fact that Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the programme for farmers, at least from here in Parliament, because he has applied for twenty estates, 778 hectares, his wife and the Lower-Berettyó-Melleki Kft. Thirty-seven estates, 1,500 acres in total, that's a lot. That's 2,300 acres. He won 237 acres. This shows, by the way, that property policy does not support oligarchs, but supports family farms. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Between 2007 and 2015, Róbert Benedek Sallai took up HUF 19.3 million in agricultural subsidies, while he initially said that he did not take a penny, and that the companies and his wife in his interest received an additional HUF 252.3 million in tender money: Alsó-Berettyó-Melléki Kft., Trollius Bt. and so on, as well as associations and foundations in which he participates: HUF 30.5 million from the National Civil Fund, HUF 35 million from the Norwegian Civil Fund, and a total of HUF 324 million from his various companies and interests in the interest of the rural policy that the congressman has been constantly attacking since he worked here in this House, so for a year. He's not accusing him. He's a beneficiary of the applications. It's time for you to explain your behavior.
u2015-06-22-94	Thank you very much. Congressman Pócs is entitled to a rejoinder. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-06-22-95	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the question arises whether our fellow Member Robert Sallai would now accuse his own family members and relatives of immoral, dishonest, and robbery, as he does in Parliament. As it may be interesting for all of us, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, who talks about clean hands and political transparency, has his opinion now. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. Constant interruptions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, A great lesson for us: if the LMP politicians wear sheep's clothing, they will not be lambier, they will become more wolf. As a great lesson: if LMP politicians are now driven by looting, how about getting close to the government? [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-22-96	Thank you very much. The rejoinder deserves Minister Potter. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-06-22-97	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think that there is still an amendment to what has been said, and then it can be decided whether our fellow Member, Róbert Benedek Sallai, is still writing applications, whether he is an expert or a clever Member. The 324 million - after he repeatedly said that our wallet, the FM, was untrue - on this billboard [[He's showing me a piece of paper.]] Which is located on his own property, can be traced. Look at this, honourable Members, and look at the Honourable Parliament, that Hungarian rural policy does allow family farmers to have different resources. It is true that the government is not criticized for this, except for a representative, Robert Sallai Benedek, who is a member of this Parliament. These applications, which, as I mentioned, contain 324 million forints: marketing and IT, local product training, local product shop, which we do not even know if it works. [[János Lázár: Sallai supports the LMP? Dr. András Schiffer: No. Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz: Not yet! There's nothing to it! The president's ringing the bell.]] from livestock farming through gardening machinery, it affects the most diverse areas with which the government helps family farmers in the countryside to thrive. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legány, representative of MSZP... [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. The voice of farmers is not heard in the ministerial study? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2015-06-22-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Last week, I also asked the specialist about the purchase price of the cherry. You know, this is the problem that is now very demanding for farmers in Szabolcs-Szatmár and Hajdú-Bihar counties, since the purchase price of the cherry is around 60 HUF per kilo, which, unfortunately, covers almost the cost of picking, since picking costs roughly HUF 50 per kilo. Unfortunately, last week's portfolio response, let's just say it was not satisfactory, because at that time you said that because of the one-way purchase - because we only produce for the German market - you cannot help the sour farmers. Minister, cherry-producing farmers are waiting for the help of the wallet and, of course, the government with regard to the purchase price of the cherry, and now the cherry-producing farmers have come to the point that the plants that are trying to bring the cherry producers together have been called to the attention of their members, asking them not to harvest the cherry, not to sell it at such a low purchase price, at a price below 100 forints. Once again, the current purchase price will only cover the cost of picking, otherwise the cost of cultivation would still come in addition, and to make some profit, so a price below 100 HUF is almost unacceptable to farmers. It is feared that this will generate even more of the wave that farmers will charge more cherry, more convents, and more trees will be pulled out, because this will not be profitable, but a payment to farmers. Minister, the farmers are waiting for your substantial help. Farmers are waiting for the wallet to stand by them, and farmers naturally expect the government to solve this problem somehow, to help them, even as you supported processors instead of producers last year, that might have been the right way, but unfortunately this did not get to the producers. So I would like to ask you once again, Minister, what are you doing for farmers? I hope you can hear their voices in the minister's office. I tried this repeated immediate question so that we might be able to shed even more light on the problem and perhaps now have a meaningful answer. Thank you. [[15.30]]
u2015-06-22-100	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-06-22-101	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for raising this important issue, and I would also like to assure you and this House that the Ministry of Agriculture will, of course, listen to farmers, get to us the word of the farmers, and I, too, have recently attended a meeting last week where many have raised this question. It is part of the fact that we have dealt with this before, and you were kind enough to draw attention to the fact that last year, the government tried to help producers within the framework of EU law, and I am confident that we can do this again this year. I intend to inform the government on Wednesday of the situation and, together with the farmers, find a solution, we can answer the questions raised. The negotiations are ongoing, and on 1 June we also had a meeting, where the leaders of the artists, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, FruitVeB Hungarian Interprofessional Organisation and Product Council, the Association of Hungarian Meggy Producers, the Hungarian Federation of Refrigerators and Conservative Industry, and the Hungarian Meggyért Nonprofit Kft. He was a member of the Board of Directors. Here we have reviewed the situation in the sector, where there is now an abundant crop. This would not be a problem in itself, but last year's very large crop, record crop stocks are still partially stored, they did not run out on the market, and most of the Hungarian cherry production is taken up by Germany. It includes Hungary being one of the most important exporters of cherry in Europe, but we depend on a market and it is very difficult to find alternative sales opportunities instead. So in this situation, we need to find a way. This is the time of the cherry harvest, and it is worth shopping. I trust that the Hungarian population, as last year, will buy significant quantities, and there are smaller companies that export directly across the border to neighbouring countries, and we expect that we will also sell this large amount of crops to our immediate neighbours. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] So the wallet is working on solving this problem. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-102	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your answer. This is probably starting to sound a little better, but once again, I would like to point out that last year - by the way, perhaps correctly - you supported processors, and you also need support for processors, but unfortunately this has not come to producers, farmers. So now we should find a construction, and you are on the government, and you can solve it, which will really help the producers, because once again, the help of processors may seem to be the right move, the processors need help, all the resources that come to agriculture are good, but it didn't hit the farmers. I would therefore like to ask that the portfolio develop a solution that will indeed provide a solution for farmers, provide a solution for farmers, and indeed support to any extent or to any amount of resources, but it will indeed arrive at the farmers and it will come down to the farmers. This will be the primary need, as I will say once again: it is now feared that they will actually pull out more cherries, and last year, too, more have eliminated the coven, and last year as low as last year. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] It was a record low price, which is simply unacceptable for farmers. Thank you.
u2015-06-22-104	Thank you, Congressman. Minister also has the opportunity to rejoinder for one minute.
u2015-06-22-105	Honourable Congressman, I feel your concern, your attention to agriculture, the interests of farmers, and I certainly appreciate that. At the same time, we should be aware that there is an abundant crop to be sold. It should be sold at a reasonable price, and in such a case, for example, one of the best solutions is for buyers to buy directly from the producer if the producers are selling through the host markets what is available. Thus, a significant part of trade and processing can be turned off. The government has done everything in its power to ensure that there are as many farmers as possible in this country, and now they have more than 200, and we have also helped them open from tender sources. And if we support processors, we may need to modify last year's construction, I hope that there will be a solution that will allow this to be reflected in buying-in prices. At the same time, it is a fact and a fact that there is a large amount of sour cherries on the market, when prices are down, but such a record year is relatively rare in order to be twice in a row. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] I am confident that this will not discourage producers and will continue to maintain their plantations.
u2015-06-22-106	Thank you.
u2015-06-22-107	The government, as I mentioned, will deal with this at its meeting the day after tomorrow. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-108	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2015-06-22-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Let's start with, as you do, what we agree on on this issue. We are quite sure to agree that Hungarian communities abroad need help not only to use their mother tongue and exercise their rights, but also to develop economics and create jobs in ripped areas. However, we say not so, Prime Minister. Not in the way it's coming out of that list that the Alpha News Portal released a few weeks ago. This list includes the concrete winners of the Hungarian Community Development Centre for Vojvodina, with an accuracy of 10 euros. This total amount of 11 billion forints of money is certainly needed in Southern Hungary, but it is clear from the list that these amounts will probably not be developed for small and medium-sized enterprises... - they will not develop the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises' family cookies with this money, but will rather land in the pockets of Hungarian oligarchs of Vojvodina, who have excellent VMSZ connections and are partly rich in robbery privatisation in Serbia. Mr. Prime Minister, There are also many companies on the list that have an offshore background, although it was stated in the notice and strategy that they should have an orderly economic background and a vision and sound plans. Of course, to be a sure winner of a contest that hasn't been written out yet, that certainly implies a stable vision. The N1 television recently asked István Pásztor about this, who acknowledged the reality of the list he referred to as a table, but the obvious fact that he gave this list to you or agreed with you did not dare to confirm it, but advised the reporter to ask you. Well, I'll do it for them. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if you have seen this list and approved the list of future winners of this HUF 11.5 billion. Do you agree that instead of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungary's government development money will land to pre-selected oligarchs without a real tender with an offshore background? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-110	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-06-22-111	Honourable Congressman, There was no foreign list of supporters that contained names, neither the government nor I have negotiated nor seen. In fact, not so much that I don't know exactly what this is about. But if you'll allow me, the next time you ask me an immediate question, I'll have a look at this list or chart you're talking about here. Nevertheless, regardless of the specific case, I can in principle tell you that the Hungarian Government supports cooperation with the Association of Hungarians in Vojvodina with a chest width. We are pleased that there is a successful cross-border organisation that is doing its job in the fields of culture, politics and the economy. This is our general and principled position, and therefore, as we have always done, the Hungarian government is happy to support VMSZ in all local elections and in all Vojvodina elections with the opportunities given by the law, sometimes with personal participation, because through them we support Hungarians living in Vojvodina. On this particular matter, I am happy to be at your disposal the next time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-112	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-06-22-113	Thank you very much. It is strange on this issue, Prime Minister, that President István Pásztor has answered all the questions of the N1 television reporter willingly, but when it came to knowing whether he knew about this list, he did not wish to contradict it, he did not wish to speak about it. It is also odd, Prime Minister, that if you do not know about this, then how can it be that the people of the Ministry of National Development have visited these non-existent non-existent companies throughout the last few months, because in recent months, the Ministry's people have been in the South, going to these companies, examining the possibilities there. He also did not deny this, President Shepherd. So what we're talking about, Prime Minister, is that either you don't remember something, or something happens in the government behind your back, we'd find that rather strange, knowing your past five years of operation. Unfortunately, we are dealing with another doggy again, Prime Minister, you have now started to build a fidesz oligarch network not only in Hungary but also across the border. [[15.40]] By the way, it turned out afterwards. [[John Lazarus intervenes.]] that not only 11 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We are actually talking about HUF 30 billion, and we are talking about not only reimbursable, but also non-refundable subsidies. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-114	Thank you. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-06-22-115	Mr President, I would be happy to repeat: so neither the government, or members of the government, nor myself, have seen such a list. However, it is still possible that, in the spirit of support policy, a ministry, or even I hope that several ministries, regularly travel across borders and prepare the proposals, investments and decisions that will be put before us, if necessary, for approval. What we have to approve will come before us, and we will approve it, which is a smaller amount, will not come before us, as a result of the lower-level decisions it will have to reach where the law requires it to go. But I think it is important to remind ourselves that the Association of Hungarian Vojvodina, the VMSZ, is not a member of the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-22-116	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Student? Work? It's an address. Mr István Simicskó, Minister of State, has the floor.
u2015-06-22-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, With the summer holiday, the student labor season will also begin, when businesses tend to employ young workers mainly in trade, catering and agriculture. The main reason for this is the tax relief for students, the shortage of workers in companies due to leave, but seasonal work can also justify the temporary employment of young people. However, student work is popular not only among employers but also among employees. After the end of the school year, many young people earn work to earn money and collect work experience. Student work, as it is in its name, is intended to promote young people's access to employment as a student, with this early work experience as well as the possibility of earning income. In connection with summer schoolwork, many of us remember the old construction camps, which serve primarily educational and propaganda steels, but one thing is certain: at the time it was said that young people should also do economically useful work. Today, by browsing ads, we see a number of different categories of companies: office administration, receptionist, light physical, warehouse work, packaging, labelling, shop support, and even fast food work. Some of this clearly serves as an opportunity for quick action, but there are also jobs that can be an advantage later on, after leaving the school, during the placement. Dear Minister, What does the government do to help young people who want to work find the summer job they think is best suited for them? Has the government created a separate job opportunity for them? Do you support the public institutions that employ them and, if so, how much do you support them? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-06-22-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If you work lazy, you'll be poor, but hard work will make you rich. "The book of Proverbs says, "and this is the government's relationship to work. [[Lajos Korózs: Oh, my God!]] "We regard work not as a punishment, but as a natural part of life, a thing that determines our relationship with each other and with each other. Therefore, we do not consider it an unnecessary question as to when a young child or a child joins the working world in the process of growing up. This is why we started in 2013 for the first time student support, the promotion of summer student work, in which, in the first year, 16,000 students were able to join, last year, in 2014, 25 thousand children and young people were involved in this work, and we created the possibility for as many young people as possible to get to know the world of work between 16 and 25 years of age, to get into a community, to earn income, and to help municipalities or companies to replace it with student work if there is a shortage of work due to summer vacation. So the programme has worked, it has fulfilled its expectations, and more and more young people are involved in this programme. We are pleased to see this, which is why again this year the government has announced this programme, and we hope that more than 25,000 students will join this work last year. We offer support for two months, in the case of 6 hours a day, the rate of support may be 100 per cent of the labour costs, which means that for skilled jobs, HUF 91 500 per month and HUF 78 750 per person per month for non-skilled jobs are the support that the state can add to this summer student work. We hope that a lot of students will take advantage of this opportunity again this year. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-120	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-121	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. The KDNP fraction also considers it important for our young people to benefit from summer vacations, summer holidays, vacations. We consider summer experiences, experience of job creation to be beneficial for young people and to help prepare for life. We are pleased to see that the government is doing everything in its power to enrich young people's ability to know themselves through summer work. Obviously, we are all in the service of community building, and this is the goal the government has far-reaching in mind. I think it is important that our young people are actively resting, obviously working, relaxing, playing sports, and practicing and applying the sporty concept of life through this. So thank you again for your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-122	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Minister.
u2015-06-22-123	Thank you very much. Congressman, I agree with you, indeed, the acquisition of work experience is very important at this age as well. Let me add that it is either sport or work, so we want to support the integration of these young people into the world of work and their work experience. We are very confident that this work experience will then help you in your later life, in the process of becoming an adult, to find a job or job that you can actually live with. I should also add that there is obviously an opportunity for young people to earn income. We also want to support this, we are happy that if a young person from his summer break, from the two and a half months that are given, he will spend at least one or two months working, as this will make it much easier for him to get settled after becoming an adult. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-124	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, Group Leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Where is the national interest? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader. [[John Lazarus intervenes. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Is this about the Sallai?]]
u2015-06-22-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the request of Secretary of State Répássy, I am not going to talk about the melon cartel. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Is that Sallai?!]] Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, on the five-year evaluation, you were proud that you and your government have chosen courage in the last five years in the European Union rather than a previous slumber. [[Viktor Orbán: We did our best.]] The situation is that, before enlargement, the Europe that put profits ahead of man and built on free trade logic has also achieved great success on an historic scale, but after enlargement, the same Europe is on the move. Hungary should stand up to redefine the European Union in order to overtake profits now. You were the only prime minister in the periphery after 2010 who had the power to outline the vision of another Europe. [[Viktor Orbán: I am a boy for this!]] Instead, you have entered into a conflict of purely power interests in the name of courage. Prime Minister, you, as opposed to us in our party family, have taken the position to remove land from the free movement of capital, you have done nothing to prevent them from interfering in the distribution of land. You have not been able to achieve it, you have not been able to stop feed containing genetically modified elements at the borders. They have done nothing to start the eradication of tax havens in Europe. They have done nothing to ensure, for example, that there is a single European labour law that protects Hungarian economic emigrants. Prime Minister! My question is what you want to do in these matters, what you want to do in the interests of a Europe that puts people ahead of profit. Do you, Prime Minister, raise, where appropriate, an amendment to the EU Treaty in view of the current crisis? Are you looking for allies to represent Hungarian national interests in Central and Eastern Europe and Southern Europe? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-126	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[15.50]]
u2015-06-22-127	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, These are all very difficult questions. In addition to the fact that I disagree with what you said, the conclusions drawn from it are all exciting questions without exception. The reason why I disagree with the evidence we have read on our heads as a charge is because if I look at the issue of protection of the earth, then we are now, we are standing up to our necks in a conflict with the European Union, and we are being prosecuted for failure to comply with the Hungarian Earth Protection Act. This is the fight we're fighting. In these circumstances, to say that we do not stand up for the protection of the Hungarian land, that if it were not such a serious matter, then perhaps I could call it a parodystic. Or in the case of GMOs, we cannot give any greater protection in Hungary to Hungarian people or to Hungarian nature to fix the GMO exemption for Hungarian agriculture at a constitutional level. So I feel that what you are trying to read on our heads here does not actually stand their place, but regardless of the questions you have raised, all of them are justified, and they all point to the same starting point or direction, whether Hungary and the Prime Minister of Hungary have a realistic chance to take initiatives to change things within the Union, not simply bad practices, because here you are not talking about details, but basic orientations, philosophical, thought and political directions. No one would be more enthusiastic than me if I could answer that yes, there is a possibility, but I look at the map here and I see square kilometers, I look at the map and I see that Germany is 80 million people, Britain is over 60 million, Italy is around 60 million, France is also. Moreover, given the voting system, which is divided into how much the vote is worth, under these circumstances I do not think it is justified by the opposition - I am sorry that I am speaking on your behalf - I do not think that there is a reason for the opposition to demand from the Hungarian government to try to change bad European thinking, ideas and philosophies. What I can do is protect him in such bad circumstances. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the Hungarian national interests and we protect the interests of the Hungarian people. I can account for that in my answer to your immediate question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-128	Thank you very much. It's a matter of speaking to Mr. Head of Photography.
u2015-06-22-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister! I don't think we should be small. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Hungary is adversely affected by a two-speed Europe. A two-speed Europe deepens the gap between the countries of the core countries and the periphery, which is why we need allies in Eastern and Southern Europe. As far as agricultural land is concerned, Prime Minister, if I had initiated an amendment to the EU Treaty or if Hungary had successfully initiated it, we would not have to face infringement proceedings. As far as GMOs are concerned, during the Presidency of Hungary, the European Union has dissolved zero tolerance for feed. So what I'm talking about is that even though there is a GMO exemption in the Fundamental Law, it also comes into the food chain through feed to Hungary. But I can also say that Hungary also voted against banning chemicals that are harmful to bees in chemical regulation a few years ago during your prime ministership. So my question remains: when do you support a Europe that puts people, nature, before the interests of profit? Thank you. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-06-22-130	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister deserves a rejoinder.
u2015-06-22-131	I don't know what I'm gonna get here in a minute, Mr. President. Here's the thing: there's one specific thing I've extracted from our fellow Member's question, which concerns the GMO, in which I have to give it the truth. I must give him the truth, because the situation is that the Constitution makes it impossible to create GMO plantations in Hungary. Here we are, and I agree with you, I am also happy to cooperate with you in finding ways to find ways that make it impossible to bring GMO-containing feed to Hungary and to enter the human food chain through animals. So we can work together on that, we agree. There is such a program for the government, and we are trying to replace these high protein imported plants - which are highly likely to contain GMOs - with GMO-free domestic plantations and dietary material. So there's no debate between us, and that's what we can work with. In the European Union, the amendment of the Treaty, which you are calling for, is possible if it is to be opened by a sufficient number of Member States. Today there is a chance, because the English would like to open the renegotiation of the Treaty, which points and in which sections we do not see this clearly, but if there is a way, I can promise LMP and all Hungarian representatives that Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] take advantage of the option of amending the Treaty; as far as a country of 10 million can benefit from such an option with an area of 93,000 square kilometres. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-132	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question, "Do we have to explain why we are protecting our borders?" It's an address. I ask the Member if he agrees that the answer will be given by the Hungarian Levente appointed to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, According to Frontex, the EU's body responsible for coordinating the protection of the EU's external borders in the Member States, last week's data, Hungary is under the greatest immigration pressure of all the Member States of the European Union. In the first five months of the year, 47 thousand immigrants arrived in Italy, in Greece 48 thousand, and more than 50,000 immigrants arrived in Hungary through the Western Balkans Immigration Corridor. While the various forums of the European Union sometimes consider, but most often discuss a hairy idea to deal with the situation, nothing has happened in a long time, while we are drowning under immigration pressure. We don't have time to wait, we have to act. Last week, the government decided to ask the Minister of Interior to prepare for the physical closure of the 175 km Hungarian-Serbian border section. It is our country's duty to protect the external borders of the European Union, but if we fail to stop illegal immigrants south of us, we must not doubt that this will happen west of us, which means not only that immigrants will be stuck with us, but it can also easily lead to the collapse of the Schengen system. According to the author of one of the liberal tabloid blogs, due to the border closure, I quote: "Being Hungarian at best will mean a five-minute explanation for all new foreign acquaintances. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, I therefore ask with respect whether your colleagues from Spain, Greece, Bulgaria or the United States of America are used to explain why they want to protect their nation from immigrants. Do we have to explain to Hungarians for protecting our borders and for protecting Europe's borders? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2015-06-22-135	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Macedonia's legislation a few days ago, to be exact: last Thursday, it adopted a new refugee law, which virtually sanctioned the shocking state that existed long before, that, through Macedonia, a European country, almost without any real risk of retaliation, tens and hundreds of thousands of people could come and go free to commit the crime of illegal border crossing. Dear House, The situation in Serbia is not much better either. The Serbian authorities cannot overcome the problem of illegal migration, they simply exceed their capacity to effectively guard the Bulgarian and Macedonian borders over 500 kilometers long. In this way, the situation has emerged, Mr House, that Hungary is the first European state to effectively combat this threat by virtue of its thousand-year statehood, organisation and internal power. Dear House, As we have so many times in history, Hungary has once again become Europe's protective bulwark, whether it is the Byzantine or the Tatar, Turkish or Soviet Hungary or Europe, against civilization pressure from the south or from the east, and no eastern or southern civilization pressure has been able to go on beyond Hungary. Honourable Congressman, I would like to stress that the idea of the closure of the border, the idea of closing the green border, is a forced idea, of course a symptomatic solution, but I would also like to stress that Hungary is involved in the substantive management of the root causes of the problem, if in a few weeks it will contribute to the fight against Islam with a military contingent of more than 100 people, which is one of the most important causes of this phenomenon. So anyone who accuses us of not dealing with the root causes of the problem is lying. We're not going to explain anything to anyone. We could explain to the Hungarian citizens who live in Asotthalm, Kelebian or Röszken, our southern counties [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and face the fact that Hungary is unable to maintain order in these counties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.00]]
u2015-06-22-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-137	Dear Secretary of State, Based on the information published on the police's website, available to anyone in the last week alone, nearly 4,000 illegal offenders were apprehended last week, and only 760 of them were caught yesterday. In Csorna, the police also produced an illegal immigrant claiming to be Moroccan, who had no document or passport. Neither European nor Moroccan nor even Guinean bissau [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] , and could not in any way justify its existence in Hungary. They rightly asked me, afraid of me, whether this would be the case now in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, I am translating these fears to you, and I ask you that, although we know and have confirmed this for me, we will also be able to resolve the protection of Hungary's borders and the protection of European borders, but please let us come to a common European solution to dealing with immigration. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-138	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-06-22-139	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, the Islamic State has been spoken, and I wanted to say this in case it was misunderstood. I would like to emphasise the figures that came forward at the southern border last weekend: only around 1,500 illegal border crossings were captured by the competent authorities on the land border of Csongrád county. That means that every 30 meters on this border has reached an illegal border crossing just this weekend. The problem is therefore drastic, and since, as many times - let me also give you a historical example - Hungary does not receive substantial help from Europe in dealing with this problem, so Hungary had to take the initiative and once again: we had to find an answer to a drastic phenomenon, a drastic problem of this weight. At the same time, I would like to stress that, for the time being, the plans are preparing for the border closure, which would, of course, only apply to the green border. The final decision will be taken in the near future in the light of these plans. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Reward of the Worker." Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-06-22-141	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, You are certainly aware of the fact that four of the seven regions of Hungary are one of the 20 poorest regions in Europe. In one of the 20 poorest regions in Europe, every second Hungarian lives, including two thirds of the country's territory. The workers' crisis has also reached a very serious extent in Hungary, because about 40 percent of the workers are people who regularly suffer some kind of shortage in their lives, a serious shortage, or even a minimum salary. In this way, a person works in a full - time job without having enough money for everyday life, fighting daily to pay his electric bill or his water bill. And then, when we raised Jobbik's proposals to alleviate this situation, such as to restructure the tax system and reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5 percent and articles for child rearing, we made a proposal that partly helps these people to survive these extremely difficult times, and partly about what we all know here in Parliament that there are not enough Hungarian children. The birth of these children should also be encouraged by not punishing children with the world's highest VAT rate, as you do, Prime Minister, but by reducing the burden on them, and by really trying to help families directly in raising children, one of the country's most important tasks. I ask you, Prime Minister, if you, who have given over HUF 500 billion to the ten percent of the people who earn the most in Hungary with a single-key tax system, have not considered whether Jobbik's proposals should be considered. At last, we should also help the poorer, decompressing, extremely difficult people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-142	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-06-22-143	Honourable Congressman, Between 2011 and 2015 we left 2,700 billion HUF in Hungarian families. And I agree with almost everything you have said - apart from your views on the tax system; here is an economic policy difference between us, the importance of which I cannot stress. The tax system you are proposing does not solve a problem, but also destroys the results achieved. Because in order to be able to talk about how to raise salaries, first it takes work to get paid. In Hungary, unemployment was above 12 percent when there was a government change in 2010, around 12 percent. In addition, a total of 1 million 800 thousand people paid taxes, which is why the country went to bankruptcy. Compared to this, unemployment is now in the range of 7 to 7.5 per cent, and the economic policy that we are pursuing is now being taxed by 4.1 million people, i.e. helping to maintain the community, the whole country. These are serious results. However, this does not contradict what you asked in the first half of your question, i.e. that wages are still low in Hungary. We also believe that wages should be increased. It is a serious, desirable remark that wages are not regulated by the government in Hungary. Not even the minimum wage. The government can influence wages through the tax system, and we have used the solution to reduce personal income tax every year, if the Minister of Finance gives us the opportunity to do so. We will also reduce personal income tax by one percent in 2016, which is actually an indirect wage increase, and we intend to continue this policy in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-144	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr János Volner has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-06-22-145	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, it can be said as you do that the money is left with the families, but in fact, researchers from the Századvég Institute, close to the government, have shown that you did not leave the money with the families, but that you left the money at the 10 percent most earning. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] These people received more than HUF 500 billion from the tax system. And I ask you, Prime Minister, as a man living on a farm myself, as a man whose neighbors are often forced to be in public work, to look around the countryside and to see how much poverty has become among the rural Hungarian population in Hungary. It has long since been the case that certain decluttered elements live in this condition. The daily regime, the fight against yellow cheques, must be bloody serious for millions of people in Hungary. And I would ask you to consider, Prime Minister, that we not support the best earners, but help these poor people to survive. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-146	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-06-22-147	Mr President, In general, I would like to oppose the argument that he constantly wants to turn the middle and upper middle classes of Hungary against poor people. There is no economic policy that favours the poor, hurts the rich, and is successful. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Of course it is.!]] You can only pursue an interest-sharing policy. It is necessary to find reconciliations of interests where the middle class, the upper middle class and the best living, as well as the poorest, have an interest in creating jobs, reducing taxes and raising wages. This is an interest-sharing policy that must be pursued, and not to turn the poor against the rich. It's a different tradition. Now, since the question wasn't from the left, I wouldn't even go into detail here. However, I would like to address the specific facts. By reducing the key to Szja to 15 percent from 1 January, we reduce the tax burden by HUF 120 billion per year, by doubling the family tax relief for two children until 2019, this affects 380 thousand families. From a calculation of measures affecting sja, it can be seen that a two - earning family with two children earning an average income will have an income of HUF 10 000 per month next year. That's all we could do right now. We would like to do more, and in the coming years we will do even more, provided we can continue the economic policy that has brought us here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, After our agenda, Mr. András Schiffer, Group leader, came forward in order of business. Please make your proposal in order of business in one minute, Mr. Group Leader. [[16.10]]
u2015-06-22-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My proposal would be to look to the future: if and if there is an immediate question, which, according to the house rules, is not the competence of the government, but a net political attack, to which the representative of the party addressed has no opportunity to respond, this is not an immediate question according to the house rules, then in the future, housekeeping will withdraw. I could ask you some interesting questions, say, about the melon cartel from Congressman Pócs, but I don't have a chance to press a button in this case. Thank you very much. The question that Congressman Pócs asked the Minister of Agriculture was not a question of controlling the government. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-150	Thank you very much. Mr. Team Leader! I'm not putting it on... [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Team Leader, may I have your attention, please? I will not put it to the vote because I do not consider it a proposal. But I suggest and ask you to raise this question at a committee meeting. Thank you very much. We'll move on to simple questions. I give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-06-22-151	Ladies and gentlemen, We're back in session. Welcome. Here's the question. Congressman László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:, Why has the exchange of water in Miskolc become more expensive? It's an address. Congressman László Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In February 2014, Fidesz's representative, Szilárd Németh, announced in the election campaign that the public service meters will be replaced free of charge by service providers for the population in the future. At the time of his announcement, he said that the government had already decided on this issue, i.e. the exchange of free clocks, which was confirmed by the spokesman at the press conference. In fact, they both suggested that it was enough to vote only for Fidesz, and that this story would come true. It has been almost a year and a half since the announcement, and it is not only free to change the watch, but also sometimes brutally expensive. That's how it is in my constituency in Miskolc, Diósgyőr. In Miskolc, a water watch was exchanged for about 6,000 forints, which included sealing at a cost. Now, however, MIVÍZ Kft. is responsible for the water supply of the city. One water meter will be exchanged for nearly 19 thousand forints, and the price for the simple sealing will be 13 460 forints. These amounts relate to a single water meter. In some panel apartments, there may be up to four water meters, so this fee may be much more expensive. Expensive is a very heavy burden on the wallets of the Miskolcs. My experience is that public uproar in this case is common in the city. I ask you, Secretary of State, when will you meet your election promise, when will the water lesson exchange be free in Miskolc? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for your question; you asked at the most recent time. It is common practice in the water utility service to take account of the consumption measured on connection water meters by the service provider itself on the basis of the accounts and to provide it to users free of charge. This is the case with electricity, and so is the case with gas services. The Hungarian regulations provide an opportunity to place side-meters in addition to the connecting water meter. However, the adjective is owned by the consumer. All the preconditions for a credible measurement, including the exchange of measurements, need to be provided by the consumer in accordance with ownership. In the case of services carried out by the water utility provider for a separate fee, such as interruption, restriction, pipe break and other things, in different parts of the country the service providers charge a completely different price for the same work. This is also the subject of the exchange of water against the Member's question. On 18 June 2015, the Government presented to this House a bill amending certain laws relating to the water utility service. This is T/4821. Bill No. 1. 23rd of this bill. § 2 of the Act introduces an administrative price regulation - this is what we intend to introduce - which determines the services and charges for users and their exclusive services for a specific fee. The scope of the planned price regulation will also cover water meter exchange and cover. The legislative change will have a positive impact on retail users, including the Miskolcs, and I therefore sincerely hope that it will be supported by the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nándor Gúr: Of course. Of course, we'll raise it three times, then we'll give you ten percent.]]
u2015-06-22-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[To Dr. Richárd Hörcsik talking to Zsolt Kis:]] I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Hörcsik, to leave the Secretary of State alone, because the next question is for the Secretary of State. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Because of the government's failure, the LEADER grants were bled out. Do we fall from hundreds of millions? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, About a year ago, K/409. I've asked you a written question about the LEADER grants. I was mainly interested in the principles of the allocation of resources. The Minister gave me an answer. Among other things, it turned out that the Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Development approved the payment of HUF 607 million of funding to 214 clients for LEADER titles in June 2014. Otherwise, they wanted to support these grassroots initiatives, and Jobbik always agreed with these principles. We also believe that the vast majority of rural development aid should be used to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. However, there is a question of how this will be achieved, how these communities can reach these funds, how they will get them, as payments have not been made to date. The deadline for the implementation of the proposals approved last May and June is 31 August of this year, which is dangerously near, and I think, in principle, it will be impossible to complete these applications. Or will they want to impose sanctions if these proposals are not completed in a month? I would ask the Secretary of State to answer these questions on an exceptional basis. We're not here to hear the accusations about the socialists. We all know in their time what unnecessary investments, what overpriced projects LEADER grants have gone to. But if that's what you want to talk about, I'd rather hear the names of those who are accounted for and the years they've been given, although we know it's not gonna happen. I ask on behalf of the winners, who are really concerned that if they receive the rightful applications in the last month, they will be able to implement them. Calm them down, and let us know whether our country will fall from these hundreds of millions or whether we can still use them in substance. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State, Miklós Kis. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The LEADER LAGs supported by the Dányi Ignác plan under the New Hungary Rural Development Programme were able to implement their regional development along local rural development strategies in their own planning areas. This meant calls for proposals under its own authority, the last of which started in 2013. Ninety-eight of the proposals received during the last grant notice for the implementation of the LEADER chapter of local rural development strategies and 948 of the LEADER regions and international cooperations were approved in 2014, representing more than HUF 12 billion in total. This is to be highlighted in particular, and I think that this is the most important thing that all of these have a grant decision, i.e. they have the opportunity to implement their development. As you well know, Mr President, rural development proposals are set out in a post-financing scheme. Customers may submit a number of payment applications to the paying agency during the project implementation period. These and the amounts of aid covered will be paid to customers after checking the accounts. [[16.20]] Obviously, at your request, I will not point back and refer to LEADER cases under the governing of the socialists, obviously my timeframe would not be enough. I am therefore just trying to point out that, based on the latest financial data, on the fourth axis also affected by LEADER, the commitment of resources reached 100 per cent, and the payments are close to 80 per cent over the remaining six months. I assure you that the government has not done anything wrong, and our country will not fall from hundreds of millions, and customers will be able to make full use of the available framework. If, in a case of individuality, Congressman comes to us [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Then, of course, I'd be happy to be at your service. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr András Tállai. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government has just launched. Come home, young man. As a new form of money-making, his programme aims to address Hungarian citizens living abroad. Its aim is to offer our emigrated countrymen the opportunity to do quality work and to create existance in Hungary. The program aims to offer an alternative to living abroad and to provide a helping hand to return home. These are, of course, good goals in themselves, although, to put it mildly, they are not credible as the programme of the government that has done the most in recent years to leave the country by hundreds of thousands of young people. In particular, it is not credible in the light of the operational nature of the public administration, as evidenced by complaints from citizens turning to LMP and press reports. This is the procedure called domestic registration, which, as a result of its scandalous operation, puts fences in front of the return of Hungarian children born abroad. From 1 April 2015, the determining authority in domestic civil matters is the Government Office of Budapest Capital. Thus, the so-called state reform did not spare this group of cases either, but after the restructuring there is neither enough IT background nor adequate staff available to deal with the many delayed or stuck cases. The work of a more integrated, controlled and cost-effective regional public administration is witnessed by a flood of desperate parents who have been waiting for months for their child to be registered in Hungary and are entitled to travel documents and finally to visit home. I ask the Secretary of State why the state is preventing the return of children and their parents. Or was that the intention of the transformation? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-22-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer is given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, - who has now replaced Sallai R. Benedek in Parliament. I would like to say to you that the current government is the first one since the change of regime, which deals with the problem of migration. Come home, young man. The program started two months ago. The government spends exactly 100 million forints more than any other government has ever spent for this purpose. So far, nearly 1,400 people have registered themselves, hundreds have found their potential jobs, and the very first have already started working. More than 50 companies involved in the programme offer around 800 jobs to interested parties, committed to supporting one of the most important goals of the Hungarian government, so that all Hungarian citizens can find the right work at home, adapted to their opportunities and abilities, and with their acquired knowledge and experience, it serves the development of the national economy. As regards the second part of the question, do you not really think, Mr President, that the government is deliberately blocking the return of Hungarian children born abroad by slowing down the process of administration? The reorganisation of the public administration is precisely intended to ensure that citizens' official affairs are dealt with in a shorter and more efficient manner and that backlogs accumulated in previous operations can be eliminated as quickly as possible. I would like to inform you that the Metropolitan Government Office started to deal with the possible way of processing the various backlogs before the organizational transformation, i.e. before 1 April 2015. In particular, special attention was paid to the registration of the simplified naturalisation procedures received from the Immigration and Nationality Office. On this basis, I would like to reassure the Member, taking advantage of the potential of the government agency system, the processing of backlogs will take place in the foreseeable future, and the children can come home to Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's in everyone's best interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: "The situation of the railway is improving: is it finally improving in Zemplén? It's an address. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-164	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Kálmán Kandó's discovery a hundred years ago was successfully transplanted by the last XX. At the turn of the millennium on the MÁV network, however, this dynamic of electrification seems to have stopped. There is a great need to continue the development. After all, nearly 10 percent of the core railway network is still equipped with diesel tow. This 10 percent includes the 45-km-long Mezozombor-Sátoraljaújhely line, which is electrified not only by the savings resulting from traction costs, for example diesel locomotives take 45 kilometers from Miskolc under the overhead line to get to the unelectric phase. Dear Secretary of State, Zemplén and its region have long been waiting for electrification. During the former socialist governments, the electorate received several promises, but not only the electrification, but also the status of the line has deteriorated significantly. That is why it was a great pleasure for us to finally get the line section in order last year, but I feel that we can only produce real results if the complete electrification takes place, because without it, the improvements to the Tokaj-Hegyala cannot be of complete value. As the EU has unfortunately not supported this project so far, it has not financed this project, so thanks to the government, from internal sources, with the transfer of the internal resources of the MÁV to Tolcsva today, hopefully by the end of summer we will be able to renovate the track. But the question is whether there will be a sequel. Dear Secretary of State, Will electrification be possible in the EU funds of 2014-20, the so-called Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme? If so, when can it begin and when is it expected to be completed? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One of the major winners of the EU budget period launched in 2014 will in any case be the area of railway development. According to the government's plans, a large number of major projects will be selected, and some 800 kilometres of railway section will be renewed. The main railway line from Budapest-Rákos through Miskolc to Nyíregyháza and the connected Mezőzombor-Sátoraljaújhely core network section will also be renovated. This line is also part of the medium-term plan for implementing an electrification programme of 450 kilometres, thanks to the persistent work of the Member. The transition from diesel to traction is very helpful in the world of maintenance costs, as more than 50 percent savings can be achieved by this method. The planning period of the investment is complete. I respectfully report that Minister Miklós Seszták ordered NIF Zrt. to implement the project. The line section is already being renovated from domestic sources, taking about two years to continue electrification and complete the project. We initiated it in previous months, and in the days before last week, on the 9th, an acceleration package was adopted, with the help of which the preparation will be faster and shorter, and in the same way we can expect a shortening. So the point is that we will start in 2016 and in 2017-18 we will definitely finish electrifying the 45 km railway line between Mezezőzombor-Sátoraljaújhely. So the other big winners will be Zemplén and the inhabitants of the region. I wish them good luck and good work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2015-06-22-167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: å Why hasn't the Mayor of Konyi been invited to present the section of the M85 Highway between Győr and Kóny? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, After many years, the ceremony of the M85 main road between Győr and Kóny took place. This section is extremely important because of the road safety of the region, which is why the mayor of Kóny has been fighting for years, as well as the leaders and inhabitants of the region concerned. From the beginning, Kóny's municipality and the mayor supported 85 percent of the investment financed by European Union funds, participated in consultations and even held several official consultations at Kóny's mayor's office. With one exception, the mayor of all the municipalities concerned is the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. He invited her, except for the mayor of Kony. Alpár Gyopáros, the Fidesz MP of the region, said in a message to the public that the mayor was invited, but he did not attend the ceremony. The mayor of Kóny, Imre Aller, said that he did not receive an invitation from either NIF Zrt. or the MP for the inauguration ceremony, and not just him, but not a single member of Parliament. As a one-room guest, Fidesz's former mayor's candidate was invited to the mayor's competition against Imre Aller. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State why NIF Zrt did not invite the mayor of Kóny to the ceremony of the M85 road between Győr and Kóny. Why did you insult the mayor of Kony's office? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Why do you want to humiliate the kony people with the petty procedure of Alpár Gyopáros and Fidesz? Why did they hurt people in their homes? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-22-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government continues and accelerates the construction of the fast-track connections of county-righted cities according to the commitment. One of the stops of this was the inauguration and transfer of the section of the motorway M85 between Győr and Kóny, to which NIF Zrt. the invitation was sent electronically to and from all data subjects. The invitation was sent to the e-mail address on the official website of the mayor's office of Kóny on June 9, 2015 at 6:9 p.m. It was sent to 297 addresses in the same way, so it doesn't cover reality, dear Congressman, that they wouldn't have sent an invitation to the mayor of Kóny. So that's not true; they sent it to all, 297 addresses, and the same method, electronically. In addition, the government will support the development of Kóny and its region, including the construction of the M85 after the 16 km phase, and, as you well know, the two-track road will be completed by Csorná twice this autumn, increasing the competitiveness and comfort of the people there, and we will also implement a road renewal programme for HUF 68 billion this year. Our plan is, in any case, to improve the conditions for transport in Hungary, which everyone will be pleased to see. So believe me, it's not the same practice as it used to be, because I remember when previously the Hajdú-Bihar County MSZP leadership banned me from events on occasion, and it didn't really send invitations to Members, to individual representatives, or to me on several occasions. It's not customary for us, we didn't take it; we sent it to everyone, so we sent it to the mayor of Kóny. [[Nándor Gúr: Look at the inauguration of the castle of Edel.]] Trust me. You have to look, there's evidence. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Imre Horváth: We'll see!]]
u2015-06-22-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Why are they preventing the development of the ancient Hungarian tradition? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, who is competent and responsible for the subject, will answer the question on behalf of State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. Congresswoman, please. You have the floor.
u2015-06-22-172	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Saker Falcon can be regarded as our national symbol, and the Hungarian falcon is a millennia of culture that goes beyond hunting activity. According to the nature conservation law, falconry is prohibited from hunting or breeding with the Saker Falcon, but it is illegal to keep it for any purpose. The reason for this is that the western border of the Saker Falcon's natural stock is the Carpathian Basin, and is therefore subject to increased protection. The authorisation of falcon is considered by the Authority to endanger the natural population. This is contrary to the fact that Hungarian falconers would base their own stock exclusively on private birds bred in a closed space by foreign farmers, so the acquisition from nature is excluded. The ban repeatedly refers to events of half a century ago when illegal bird purchases occurred; these occurred before falcon farming was resolved when no other source of supply existed. The development of the natural stock cannot therefore be linked to the use of the silk and closed-space breeding of private farmed specimens. The Hungarian Solymás Association has repeatedly initiated the dialogue to change the situation, but no substantial progress has been made to date. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State when it is planned to amend the unprofessional law which is fundamentally contrary to the interests of the Hungarian falcon. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-173	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Saker Falcon's global population was estimated at 40,000 pairs in the 1990s and 6400 pairs today. The most responsible for this drastic decline is the capture for falcon purposes, the largest market of which is the Arab world. The highly protected species in our country are growing in a unique way thanks to conservation efforts, strict regulation and two EU LIFE programmes. In addition to the importance of nature conservation and falconic traditions, this species is a national symbol and protection of all patriots deserves special attention thanks to the Turullegenda, the myth of the homeowners. In view of its endangered status, the Saker Falcon is indeed not one of the species that can be kept for falcon purposes, since the use of falconry would pose a potential risk to wild stocks even if the specimens from breeding were used. To date, there have been abuses in several countries, such as nesting, where the use of the species is permitted. We don't consider the slightest risk acceptable. However, there is a possibility for falcons to practice their traditional hunting method, since in Hungary, this activity can be carried out with six different protected and highly protected species of predatory birds. We regularly discuss the issue with the Hungarian Solymás Association, and we see that a small part of the Hungarian falcon is the one who wants to use the Saker Falcon as a falcon. Thank you for your question, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. If Mr. Schiffer is willing to take his place, I can give you the floor. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, Mr. András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Attorney General: "Is the investigating authority biased or inadequate? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-176	Thank you, Mr. President, and I'm sorry. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, The Cicón near Bonyhád built a modern landfill of billions of forints from EU funding, which is in a state of bankruptcy due to the bluff, and therefore there is a virtually environmental emergency. This emergency was documented by LMP's specialist politician Ákos Hadházy with journalists from one of the largest online news portals. Their car, however, was attacked by the gripping machine of the colony, and the multiton machine forced it to move from a distance of a few centimeters, with a partly raised thruster. [[16.40]] The case was videotaped, but despite the obvious facts, the Bonyhad Police Department wanted to close the case in the absence of a crime. As a result of the complaint against this, a judicial expert was appointed, based on his report, the department finally made an indictment proposal on suspicion of deliberate occupational endangerment. During the review of the file, it turned out that the authorities had obtained the phone records of the staff of the premises. It turned out that immediately after the entry of journalists, the staff of the colony called three or three times on the phone, the Lord of Croatia, the Mayor István Horváth Szekszárd and the current mayor Rezső Ács, then deputy mayor. The purpose of calling the call list could be to find out the identity of potential instigators, but they did not interrogate those individuals during the investigation. Ákos Hadházy's motion in this direction was rejected by the police in one day on the grounds that the suspect's grabber driver did not speak directly to the politicians - obviously his phone pressed on its own - but only spoke to his bosses, who immediately sought the mayor. Two conclusions can be drawn from the story. One of them says that the investigating authority, with an absurd interpretation of the law, believes that anyone can be caught up in anything, the point is not to have direct contact with them. The other conclusion may be that the investigation had some political influence. I'll ask Mr. Attorney General which is the truth. Thank you.
u2015-06-22-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer will be given by Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich, whom I respectfully welcome. Here you go, Deputy Attorney General.
u2015-06-22-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the case referred to by the Member, the District Attorney's Office in Bonyhad is already charged on 15 May 2015 with the offence of deliberate endangerment, so the case is already in court. It corresponds to the facts that the investigating authority obtained the phone records of the staff of the premises, which clearly show that the loaded person made two calls. These calls weren't received. After that, the environmental rapporteur of the plant called the loader and had a conversation of about 26 seconds. After that, he didn't talk to anyone. Before that telephone conversation, a colleague of the colony made two calls to the deputy mayor mentioned by the Member, who also did not receive these calls, while the mayor's telephone call had not been made at all until that time. It follows that the mayor or deputy mayor mentioned by the Member could not have had an indirect impact on his duty before or during the execution of the criminal offence which was subject to the prosecution; this is clear from the examination of the call list. If the person concerned, who drew the attention of the Member, had done so thoroughly, this would have been clearly established. Obviously, he was also aware, by the Member, that the conduct of the instigator was possible only before the basic act of act, while the provision of psychic aid before or at the latest during the basic act of the perpetrator. In view of all this, I must say that none of the two statements made by Mr President correspond to the facts. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On the one hand, as the instigator of the instigator would also be responsible, the investigation did not reveal this information, or the investigation was conducted in accordance with the legal requirements relating to the clarification of the facts. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-179	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. It's 16 hours and 44 minutes, and the questions are over. The debate now follows on from the report before the final vote and the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the proposal to amend certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. The submission was made in T/4393. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote is T/4393/19, and its report before the final vote is T/4393/20. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I will give the floor to Mr Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee, in no more than eight minutes; then he will be followed by Mr Bertalan Tóth, who will present the minority opinion formulated in the committee within a seven-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman Vas Imre.
u2015-06-22-180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4393 amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. Bill No. 1. The bill was discussed for the first time by the Legislative Committee on 4 June, then the government submitted an initiative to correct the provisions that led to the nullity of public law. In view of the fact that, if the legislator points to a standard as a cornerstone, the direct consequence of this is that the rules giving the substance of the legal institution concerned, even detailed rules, should be considered to be fundamental, the purpose of the amending proposal was to ensure full enforcement of both codification and public law provisions. The two amendments in the background supported the adoption of the bill in view of the fact that it had taken out an internal reference, a cornerstone point, and the fundamentality clause, which was adopted by the Committee by 22 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. The committee adopted the amendment proposal before the final vote and the report before the final vote by 21 votes in favour, 10 against and without abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, who will present the committee's minority opinion, as I have said, in a seven-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment preparing the final vote, the proposal, does nothing but correct it because of the fundamental provisions which have failed in the vote. The amendment proposal is false, because although it highlights the reference from the text to the fundamental provision which has not been voted, the new provisions of the bill remain for control, namely a paragraph of the Hungarian National Bank Act which does not constitute a fundamental provision. In the legislative procedure of 4 June of the bill, an initiative number 6 was attached, which we pointed out at the time that the bill was intended to deliver a solution of concern from a codification point of view. The Hungarian National Bank Act is fundamental 13. It adds a new point (m), but the rules giving the content of the new norm are set out in point 48. Paragraph 2 of this Act, which is a half section, intends to place it in this law. In view of the fact that, if the legislator points to a standard as a cornerstone, the direct consequence of this is that the rules giving the substance of the legal institution concerned must also be fundamental, the purpose of our amendment was therefore to ensure full enforcement of both codification and public law provisions. However, the Legislative Committee did not accept this proposal, although, in the absence of it, the nullity of the law adopted by public law is still quite obvious. That is why I have already raised this proposal at the Legislative Committee, and I am now confirming that if Parliament adopts this law with this legislative amendment, we will have no choice but to turn to János Áder, as is the case with the Land Traffic Law. Because of the fact that one of the main rules is fundamental, its detailed rules are also deemed to be so, even though the proposer and the parliament try to conceal this by any tricks, if they accept this bill. [[16.50]] At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I highlighted one other point, which was that this so-called salad law - as several laws are being amended - contains proposals that we can support. Proposals to help victims of brokerage scandals can be supported. Proposals that increase the control efficiency of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can also be supported. But what is totally unacceptable is that, on the basis of the draft legislation, the Hungarian National Bank is partly exempt from liability for damage caused by administrative powers, in fact it cannot commit such damageful behaviour by default if the Parliament accepts it. We claim that the National Bank of Hungary has failed to deal with the brokerage scandals, which is why it is liable for damages, which is what they want to eliminate from this legislation. So that is why we cannot support the legislation, and that the Hungarian National Bank still has no supervisory board. We have also tabled an amendment in this regard, but the Legislative Committee voted against this proposal, so it still does not have a supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will now be speeches from its representatives; it will be possible to speak five minutes on the part of the political groups and three minutes on the part of the independent Members to the ladies and gentlemen of this House. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr Bertalan Tóth. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I can repeat the position that we took in the final debate, both before the Legislative Committee and at the previous plenary session. I am very sorry that there will be no speeches from the governing party, and we will not get the answer to our questions. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the proposals that are included in the bill and help brokers and increase the control efficiency of the Hungarian National Bank are eligible. But the fact that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can only be held liable if it takes an administrative decision for damages caused by administrative powers, and someone objects to this decision, and the court declares that the decision is illegal, it is only possible to sue the Magyar Nemzeti Bank to take responsibility for the damage caused by its activities and to pay for the damage. The bill almost excludes the possibility of damages by default in the legislation, so to speak, renders the Hungarian National Bank irresponsible. It is not possible to support a proposal that broadens the procedural powers of the Hungarian National Bank, so to speak, to make the supervisory body of the Hungarian National Bank a investigative authority, and if it fails or fails to do so, it cannot be held accountable. Once again, I would like to stress that the majority of the governors should do so, so that the government can finally have a supervisory board for the Hungarian National Bank. It is a pity to claim that the opposition cannot agree to become a member of the opposition supervisory committee. Bring in the legislation and, of course, there will be a candidacy, but it is also not a democratic attitude to force opposition parties with completely different views to make a deal on this, and on this basis they are not setting up the supervisory board, which we believe is very much needed. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-22-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The summarised amendment focuses on the compensation fund for the victims of Quaestor damage. The proposal carefully highlights the need for compensation to the client in the event of the sale of fictitious bonds and sets out how to calculate compensation in such cases. At the same time, we do not know what will happen to the victims of Buda-Cash, the Hungária Broker house, who, according to press reports, still do not know when their compensation begins, even though the compensation of the Quaestor Bonds will be opened in July. Not to mention that while Quaestor bondholders receive compensation up to HUF 30 million, the victims of Buda-Cash and Hungária will be compensated up to HUF 6 million. This is an open statement of what the LMP has already suspected, namely that there is a political link between Fidesz and Quaestor, and therefore exceptional treatment. That is why Fidesz has prevented the setting-up of an investigation committee for the broker scandal. The LMP strongly rejects the choice of victims of the various fraud victims. And while we're at it, when will Baumag's indemnities be compensated, the 12,000 people this government has long forgotten about? We recognise that the bill has eligible elements. For example, LMP supports the proposal to grant the Hungarian National Bank a new licence to restore confidence in the financial markets, which will make it more effective to seek evidence of the infringement that is the subject of on-the-spot research. Or it may also be supported that, under the proposal, only qualified chamber audit or audit firm may carry out statutory audit activities for certain farmers. It is also clear that not only a natural person is an auditor, but also an audit firm may not carry out statutory audit activities for more than five years with the same public-interest holder. It is also a good idea that the MNB should carry out on-the-spot inspections with market participants at shorter intervals and that it will introduce the outcome of the exceptional target test. At the same time, overall, we consider the bill to be insufficient to prevent future broker scandals. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-187	Thank you very much, notary. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in this debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2000 on Accounting and certain laws on financial matters, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. The submission was made in T/4852. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4852/2. and T/4852/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4852/5. and the summary report is T/4852/6. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-188	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed Act C of 2000 on Accounting and T/4852 amending certain laws on financial matters. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, MEPs discussed proposals for a 12-point amendment from the Economic Committee, which were set out in the background, which were supported by the Government. The intention to amend and other points in the background were supported by 23 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. The purpose of the legislative amendment proposal is to transpose Directive 2013/34/EU into the Hungarian legal order in relation to the annual financial statements and related reports of certain types of enterprises. [[17.00]] Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code and CLXXIII of 2013 on the transformation, merger and division of individual legal entities With the entry into force of law, the concept of transformation only covers the change of company form, not the merger and division. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that, in accordance with the latter laws, the amendment concerns not only the change of company form, but also the merger and division. In view of this, the Committee has prepared a summary amendment proposal and a summary report, adopted by 23 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. Please support T/4852. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a total timeframe of 10 minutes, and you will be free to share it with him at the expense of your speech and of the time frame to be left to close. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Following nearly six months of professional preparation, on 19 May 2015 the Government presented its bill amending Act C of 2000 on Accounting and certain laws on financial matters. The purpose of the bill before you is to transpose the new accounting directive of the European Union into domestic accounting legislation. Accounting rules have already complied with EU requirements and this compliance will continue to be ensured through the adoption of the bill. The amendments concern all the essential elements of accounting reporting, from the balance sheet to the profit and loss account to the additional text data. At the same time, the amendments fit well in the general accounting system and therefore they do not create difficulties for businesses. In addition, the bill provides an appropriate time to prepare for the amendments, since the new and the amended regulations will only have to be applied for the first time from 1 January 2016. Dear Parliament, During the debate on the bill, there was consensus on the need for it. The principles of regulation, such as those set out in the bill, are agreed by honourable Members. The main reason for this is that the bill provides for the transposition of a set of rules laid down by an EU directive where the scope given by the EU directive is significantly limited by the Member States. Only a few legislative, linguistic and codification amendments have been submitted to the bill, which are supported by the government. Perhaps the most important element of the proposed changes, in line with the new EU Accounting Directive, is further simplification of accounting standards for small businesses. With this aim, I think we all agree. The adoption of the amendments contained in the bill will simultaneously serve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and reduce the administrative burden on small businesses, as well as the full compliance of domestic accounting legislation with EU requirements. I respectfully ask the Parliament to support and accept the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-191	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that, at the end of the debate, he has left a time frame of 7 minutes and 33 seconds. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Economic Committee has not appointed a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. The timeframes are on the billboard, but I would like to say quickly: Fidesz 17, KDNP 8, MSZP 9, Jobbik 9, LMP 5, and for the independents there is a 2-minute time frame. First, the speeches will be made by the Members who have signed up in writing. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of the government referral submitted to amend Act C of 2000 on the Accounting Act, what we see here, the version supplemented by the opinion of the Economic Committee is the EC Directive 2013/34/EC. So, as I say, the transposition of the EC Directive 2013/34/EU into domestic law is proposed by the author and, according to his own declaration, this brings the domestic accounting law one step closer to international standards, the application of IFRS. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.]] Basically, there is a debate in the business - and this Gordian knot has been cut by you - that many people say that a comprehensive amendment to the law would be appropriate, that the accounting law should be resolved and resolved by a highly controversial, many experts believe that it is a wrong decision to legislate. A complete, comprehensive amendment to the legislation would be necessary, and a code consistent with the latest European standards. The financial profession also fully agrees with this endeavour. In addition, if this meant an introduction in 2017, there would be sufficient preparation time, the new law would be much easier for economic operators to apply than this frequently changing step-by-step approximation. So this is our general opinion on the proposal. What is proposed in concrete terms is that the accounting category of extraordinary revenues and expenses, which has so far existed independently, will be abolished. This is basically not a bad direction for comparability, but classification among other financial items... - according to these events it is necessary to open the ledger accounts for their registration, i.e. in the other category, to provide adequate information for the determination of the corporate tax base to verify it. In the changeover period, according to professional opinions, the current text of the proposal now does not contain this requirement, i.e. the transitional rules, and therefore the possibility of tax avoidance is encapsulated. Therefore, the accounting report will not be clear, which will take effect from 1 January 2016. This amendment does not clearly regulate the way in which items currently shown as exceptional are to be drawn up and reclassified in order to compile the 2016 accounts. This may result in a breach of several accounting principles, including the principle of authenticity and comparability. What is right is that the IFRS rules are partially introduced, but many small steps are not appropriate. It is more useful and useful if you are bound by an EU deadline with a one-year delay, which, by the way, does not bother you very much, are now sensitive to the deadline, but, in professional opinion, it is more appropriate to issue a fully codified accounting law with a one-year delay for the 2017 financial year. In this regard, Hungarian standards could also be complied with as well as the harmonisation of current IFRS, US GAAP, US accounting standards. It is therefore likely that a comprehensive and good regulatory environment could be developed. You are now failing this opportunity with this proposal, and you are risking this temporary regulation, which is perhaps also a cause for error. Another advantage of a comprehensive amendment would be that, over a period of one and a half years, the re-training and further training of professionals would take place in the framework of annual compulsory accounting training, so it would be smooth to introduce a new law based on international foundations, not in the context of extraordinary but in the framework of regular annual training. [[17.10]] I can therefore say, Mr Secretary of State, although you may not consider this proposal to be your own in every detail, but you do represent the Government here, that this proposal is correct in terms of strictly accepted technical details, because it transposes Directive 2013/34/EU into the domestic legal system, but their whole idea of amending the accounting law carries serious risks, and therefore the MSZP cannot support it. No, we will not vote because the specific content is correct, so with these professional comments, we can vote with one abstention, asking the government not to stop this work. What has been said by both the debate and the professional organisations should be taken into account and, as soon as possible, should leave us sufficient time to prepare for the comprehensive regulation to be put in place in 2017. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Dénes Galambos asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Due to our membership in the European Union, domestic accounting rules are regulated at several levels. Following the consultation of the Member States, a new Accounting Act or Directive on the basis of EU accounting rules was adopted in 2013. The new Accounting Directive has led to significant changes in the requirements for annual accounts and consolidated accounts on a number of issues. The new Accounting Directive significantly increased the thresholds for each group of undertakings, thus increasing the thresholds for simplified annual accounts to more than twice the thresholds under the Accounting Act, thus allowing 97-98 percent of the domestic companies covered by the Accounting Act to produce simplified annual accounts in the future. The new Accounting Directive does not allow the accounting of exceptional items included in previous accounting rules. Exceptional income and extraordinary expenses are items that are independent of normal business activities, are outside the normal business of the entrepreneur, are not directly related to normal business activities. This results in a significant change in domestic accounting standards and also in the breakdown and structure of the profit and loss account, but the changes follow the logic of the accounting system, so that they can be easily adapted. In line with the new Accounting Directive, international regulation and proposals from professional organisations, the rules on the recognition of dividends also change. The amount of dividends shall be shown in the accounting records at the date of the decision in the future and not in the accounts of the year for which it was approved, so that the item of profit or loss under the previous balance sheet will cease to exist, the profit and loss account will include the deduction of the profit or loss taxed. The bill also includes a minor amendment to the Law on the Rules of Taxation. The purpose of this is to ensure that certain parts of the Act on Rules of Taxation are governed by the commercial headings in force at all times rather than by the current fixed time. The further purpose of the amendment is to ensure that, in relation to the communication links between the online cash register and the State tax authority, the official price is not the highest price, but the fixed price set in a separate legal act in the future. In the case of the Law implementing Community customs law, the practical experience has led to the need to clarify and supplement the provisions on ex post controls, in which the provisions on the possibility of changing the decision of the authorities were amended. The bill also contains the so-called FATCA agreement on the automatic exchange of information between authorities on financial accounts with a view to reducing tax evasion with the United States of America, which is an abbreviation of the Act of Compliance for Taxation of Foreign Accounts, which must contain and serve compliance with the principle of the highest benefit contained in the international contract. All these amendments are on the basis of which we propose that this House adopt the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah, two minutes. There are no two-minutes in these, and for a proper speech, Congressman Nándor Gúr, please. It could be a waste of time.
u2015-06-22-196	Thank you very much, Mr President, yes, not two minutes, it was only two minutes and three seconds, and I was instinctively two minutes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The point is three sentences, maybe not even that much. 2013... - Now it's 2015 and we're doing the adaptation, the transcription with January 16th, so the point is that, on the one hand, if we wanted to poo, then we could say that it was a little late, because it could have been done in another 14 years, we should have done it. Now, if I look at it from the other side, I can tell you that the story seems to be so hasty in the sense that it is a comprehensive, all-inclusive, so stable, with safe points, and, in the background, with sufficient preparation, the auditors... - not even the auditors, but rather, the ability to prepare for the accountants, is at least questionable by this story, i.e. this six-month exit. I do not want to go into detail as to how and how concerns and doubts about the registration of extraordinary items will be brought to life, but as my fellow Member Józsa talked about this uncertainty, it is clearly in our judgement as a risk factor and as a risk element. For this reason, as you said, we will abstain, and we would rather suggest that, if it is already two years after 13, a year will pass, but then we will have legislation to minimise the sources of error. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, As several of them no longer made themselves known, the debate is closed. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, indicated that he did not wish to respond to what was said in the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Here comes the 1994 XLV on war care. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. János Lázár, Zoltán Kovács, László L. Simon, Tamás Vargha, Attila Tilki fideszes, Bence Rétvári, Imre Vejkey's own motion T/4972. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Defence and Police Committee as designated committee on a detailed debate T/4972/4. was given to them. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I will give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey in a ten-minute time frame, but I will inform you that ten minutes includes the closing word, so that you can use it during the closing. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.20]]
u2015-06-22-198	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a proposer, we consider it extremely important that, by extending the scope of the Law on War Care, repeatedly rejecting the political decision taken in 1949, in the future it should be matched by the financial support to be paid by the pension body, whose husband, father, served as a national of the former Hungarian Royal Defence and Police between 2 November 1938 and 9 May 1945, regardless of his status and rank, and as a result of the peace treaty signed in Paris on 10 February 1947 by representatives of Hungary. So this bill, ladies and gentlemen, also gives us the opportunity to express the importance of our cross-border reunification, treating all our citizens as equals who, as Hungarian citizens, have given their lives in fulfilling their obligations for the Hungarian country. Their relatives will be able to present their application for annuity at the Government Office of Budapest Capital. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you for the speech. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, a time frame of 7 minutes 57 seconds will be available to say the closing word. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-22-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Government will continue to support the proposal in its original form. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-201	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Defence and Police Committee has not issued a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. For the first time in the debate, those who have made themselves known in writing will be given the opportunity and there will be no two-minute speeches during the debate. The timeframes can be found on the billboard. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have already expressed our position in the general debate, so that Jobbik supports the bill both in its objectives and in its content. Nevertheless, I would like to say very briefly about the only amendment we have tabled together with my colleague György Szilágyi. The bill before us is 5 and 6. We wanted to amend the provisions of the directive. The allowance for former orphans is set at 30% of the minimum amount of the old-age pension. This would have been increased to 50% of the minimum old-age pension. In our opinion, this would not have burdened the budget, and even so, there would not have been an amount that ex-army orphans would have received. This proposal was not supported. We have asked for a vote on this and this is what the House can vote on tomorrow. I would very much ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. And Jobbik, as I mentioned at the outset, will support the bill. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Márta Demeter of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-22-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. According to the current text of the Law on War Care, a Hungarian citizen living in Hungary is entitled to war care, who, as a result of the explosion of military service, compulsory military pre-training, air raids and operations, suffered an eclipse of military origin due to the damage to his physical integrity or health due to the explosion of residual explosives. The proposal removes the restriction that the rightholder must live in Hungary. A paragraph of the proposal aims to ensure that, taking into account the historically changing borders of Hungary, war-wives who have died after their late husband are also surrounded by war-wives who have entered from Hungary, but are now citizens of another state without a change of residence. The proposal provides for the benefit of the former war orphan, as well as the benefit of the former warded family member and former war-sponsored. According to the law in force, the victims of war and orphans of war are entitled to the following benefits. Up to the age of 16 years of age of the child; if he studies at the school during the day, for the duration of the studies, but up to the age of 25 years; or if the child is permanently disabled during the period specified in the preceding points, regardless of the duration of that condition, regardless of the age of the child, provided that the reduction in his working capacity has reached 67 per cent or the loss of health of 50 per cent. According to another paragraph of the Law on War Care, a family member who has been warded out by the person who died as a result of the service, or a war invalid, who actually lived for 60 years of age or at least 67 percent of his/her parents, grandparents, siblings and half-brothers, who have had a disability of at least 50 percent or more. It is proposed that all orphans, war-loving and war-care families will receive an allowance, whose money supply has been terminated or suspended for political reasons or for political reasons, and who has not submitted his application for such treatment for political reasons. The territorial scope is extended, as is the case with widows of war. The benefit is independent of whether the rightholder receives other benefits. The monthly amount is equal to the amount of the allowance due to the war orphan, the widow, i.e. 30% of the minimum amount of the old-age pension at any time. The MSZP will support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. With regard to the return after the general debate, I would like to add two points to what Congresswoman Márta Demeter said. One is the call for attention - although this will not be done within the framework of this law, but we would also like to point out here - that it would not be a problem or a problem, but it would be fortunate to change the minimum amount of old-age pension, since it has been virtually unchanged for a long time since the beginning of their governance. 30 percent of that twenty-eight thousand or several hundred HUF does not represent a scale that is practically necessary or would be good if it were in the form of support. That's one of my supplementary thoughts. The other one's more of a confirmation. When John Lázár was presented in the general debate, we signaled and now signal that we consider the draft law important and that we act in support. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-207	Thank you very much. Member György Szilágyi asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My colleague Gergely Kulcsár has already said that unfortunately our amendment proposal has not been adopted, although we believe that the budget could have endured this increase, and I feel that this could have been an appropriate increase. But I want to talk about something else. There was another item, and there is one, in my opinion, a weakness in this law that I would recommend to the government. Unfortunately, because of various disagreements, we couldn't bring him in as a TAB modifier, but there's one important group in this circle - I'm talking about missing people - who went in and then they were reported missing. In many cases, family members have not followed up on this issue either because of political or social circumstances, so it is not certain that they have such papers, as the implementing regulation contains the following: the military origin of death must be certified primarily by official notice, official certificate or court order declaring death to be dead. Very many of the family members whose relatives have been reported missing cannot have that. [[17 .30]] At the time, a lot of people were like that when they didn't come home from the war, and they first started asking questions, and they were told that they were here, here, and here, for the last time - let's say - their husbands, and from then on they were considered missing. And if they didn't go this way, so they didn't follow this case later, they couldn't have these papers. It would be good for the government to think of the same enforcement regulation, but it would be determined who is listed as missing or not having such documents at the moment, who they can turn to. I think they could turn to the Ministry of Defence, but so that they can get these documents, and not fall out of the circle that I think they should receive, we try to sort this out somehow, that everyone who has been affected by these unfortunate tragedies really is able to receive this compensation, but not compensation, but benefits, and that there should not be people who are unable to enter this benefit circle for administrative reasons. I would like to ask you to take this into account and, if possible, to solve this problem somehow. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Imre Vejkey asked for the floor from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament, the Defence Committee has rejected Jobbik's amendment by waiting for the needs to arrive and return to this issue the following year, given the specific budgetary burden. This amending proposal concerned the extent of the supply issue. I would ask the honourable Jobbik representatives to take into account in the vote that this issue has remained open. The other thing that my fellow Member Szilágyi also said was that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 18 June he included this issue in his original agenda. However, since no proposal for an amended amendment was supported, this issue has been removed from its agenda. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr György Szilágyi follows the 4 minutes to 33 seconds.
u2015-06-22-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is, of course, a matter in which we can accept this position of the government, but let us not forget, but really look at the budgetary burden that will be imposed later, and then let us get back to it in a year's time. We can accept that. That's why it's good to have such dialogues. Otherwise, it would be good to have dialogues between us not only on such fully common and eligible matters, but also on other matters. When we hear normal and truly tolerated arguments from the ruling party, we can accept them. So we can accept that we should return to it in a year and see how much we can increase these benefits. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will, of course, support this bill despite the fact that our amendment has not now been adopted. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Here you go, Congressman. The time frame is 8 minutes 57 seconds.
u2015-06-22-214	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I should like to thank the Parliamentary Group of the MSZP and the Parliamentary Group of Jobbik for their support for the bill. On this basis, I would like to say the following very briefly. The bill remedys an area in which the Hungarian state has been unable to survive in a worthy manner over the past 25 years, unable to properly acknowledge the families of Hungarian heroes who defended Hungary, the Hungarian people, and who paid with their lives and health in the fights. The change of regime cannot be complete until the Hungarian National Assembly and the Hungarian Government recognize these sacrifices and the personal consequences of these victims, the orphaned families. Thank you again for your support, and I thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/4824. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee's proposal to close a detailed debate is T/4824/2, and the report is T/4824/3. It is available to all of them. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal is T/4824/5 and its summary report is T/4824/6. Available on the website. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later mark the description of the committee's minority opinion. I respectfully ask whether one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority, but since they have not applied for a minority opinion, Imre Vas, the rapporteur of the committee, gives the opportunity to present the opinion of the committee in an eight-minute time frame.
u2015-06-22-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 18 June 2015, the XX. T/4824. In this context, the Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. The importance of this bill is highlighted below. The fundamental purpose of the amendment is to transform the regulatory regime for the acquisition of the Hungarian Development Bank in order to ensure that the direct and indirect acquisition of the Hungarian Development Bank takes place in a more flexible form of decision-making than at present, but within the limits laid down in the National Property Act. The correction contained in the adopted proposal is on the one hand codification clarification, which clarifies the regulation so far by referring to the appropriate rules of the NEC Act, and on the other hand adds a clarification clause to the Hungarian Development Bank Act 8. Paragraph 3 new point (i), clarifying the intention of the legislator. I'd like your support, please. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mrs Lászlóné Németh, Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak now. [[Mrs. Lászlón Németh: Yes.]] You have a ten-minute window of time, from which you will be able to state your current speech and the closing word. There you go. You have the floor. [[17.40]]
u2015-06-22-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has already been said in the debate on this amendment, the aim of this proposal is to make the work of the Development Bank more efficient. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to two of the most impressive criticisms that have been raised at the committee meeting and in the debates that have been held. One opposition was an objection as to why the investment of the Development Bank was subject to a different capital requirement than an average credit institution. I can answer that briefly enough. Simply because the Hungarian Development Bank, as well as the development bank in any country in the world, cannot be regarded as an average credit institution, a specialised financial institution, in the case of EU legislation, allows the Hungarian legislator to operate it on the basis of specific rules. However, I must also say that the fact that this capital requirement for the Hungarian Development Bank is determined differently is a very important thing here. The Hungarian Development Bank does not have deposits. The relationship that can be established between the fact that the Hungarian Development Bank also manages public money is a multiple metastasized event, in any case not classified as a deposit category. The next criticism, perhaps even more pronounced, was that if we remove and disable Supplement 2 to the Act, the transparency will be damaged. I would like to say a few points to that. First of all, the Hungarian Development Bank is constantly being examined by international credit rating agencies, its activities are monitored by international institutional and business partners on the basis of very strict compliance criteria, and the fact that some of the corporate bonds of the Hungarian Development Bank are also circulating in international markets means that it also has to comply with specific transparency rules, which, where appropriate, can be operated on the London Stock Exchange and which applies there. Then there's another point that's come to our attention in the past week. Transparency International has published a transparency research, where the Hungarian Development Bank has reached the first of the 66 state-owned companies under investigation in the so-called law enforcement ranking, and according to Transparency International, its cumulative results make it the third most transparent state institution. Let us say that I also believe that Transparency International cannot be accused of producing this result in some kind of political bias. I think, and I would like to emphasise this once again, that we need to amend the law, we are talking about an important player in the domestic economic institutional development system, and I also think that the activity that the Hungarian Development Bank is doing contributes to increasing the country's competitiveness, contributes to maintaining, implementing and in the future moving on with plans for reducing the costs. So I would ask you to accept the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-219	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'll inform the Secretary of State that if you say a closing point, you'll have five minutes and 30 seconds at your disposal. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur and that there is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We cannot continue to share the enthusiasm and statements made by the Secretary of State. Transparency International has certainly examined it, and I am sure that, by the way, as an independent institution not related to a government, it could otherwise have considered the transparency of the Hungarian Development Bank, the transparency of its operation, but I do not think you doubt that this was before the legislative amendment. At a time when, in order for the Hungarian Development Bank or the government to acquire any economic company in Hungary, the Hungarian State would like to refer back to Imre Vas's speech, where he said that the annex was supplemented with a few small-scale things. The Hungarian Development Bank will deal with the following: the profile of the ownable companies will now be expanded with public utility services, real estate distribution and real estate management. Once in a debate, it was said that perhaps the Hungarian Development Bank would like to sell sour sugar as well. It's your decision and your responsibility, I'm sure. So far, they have at least had to be decided by law in this House, at least to be brought before this House. By the way, the three legislative proposals that we will be discussing at different times - the provisions of the laws on state assets, the amendment of the legislation on the Hungarian Development Bank - have the effect of bringing everything under the Prime Minister's Office led by János Lázár, where, in fact, János Lázár may ask according to the law, according to the justification of the law, I will translate this into Hungarian: he can order the MFB to buy or acquire a certain economic company. Then the MFB can assign any of the companies in its portfolio with the approval of the Minister, create funds for it, or create a company that can purchase any Hungarian company if there is no such company. This is what we have pointed out, that this certainly will not serve transparency. I also drew attention to this, and I am not used to hearing from the government why the Hungarian state is building such a large portfolio of companies. Hungarians have little use for this. By the fact that the Hungarian State already has a stake in Erste Bank, Budapest Bank, the Hungarian State has a share of a lot of tax forints, that Antenna Hungária has been purchased, that BKV's loans have been taken over from the Hungarian State's tax forints, that state is building a portfolio of companies from which, I believe, the Hungarians have not benefited much in recent years. Before I get the answer to this, but this is in order to ensure the sustainability of the cost reduction, because we will see that if we monitor these things in its process, of course, they will now also undermine the first national utility company and everything else that has any competence with regard to this reduction, you will include this under the Prime Minister's Office. I think that it should be borne in mind that if Brussels did not find this right, then you probably had the wrong discussion in Brussels. Rather, it should be addressed on one side how they can correct that mistake there, and on the other, what I drew attention to in the debate, Madam Secretary. We have Mr Katainen, who is responsible for informing the participants in the Hungarian Parliament about the so-called Juncker Fund, the use of the Juncker Fund under Article 13, on the Committee on Economic Affairs, on the Committee on Budgets and on the European Union Committee. There he has repeatedly drawn attention to the amount of some EUR 315 billion, which we know is going to be largely and entirely to infrastructure development, and they will not tolerate public actors in this amount. I asked him on purpose if he knew that things were going the other way in Hungary, because the state was going to get everything. I'm not saying you're going to nationalize, because for now you're going to get it for money, and now you're just going to have to lower the quality of the mandate, and so far it has to be a law, and now that you're going to accept it, we're going to have enough regulation. Does the EU Commissioner know that market players are leaving Hungary and that the state is entering into the ownership and operator role of these companies? How will the Hungarian State have access to the infrastructure development of 80% of this huge amount of money? He told me to do it in no way. [[17.50]] Now, the reason I'm not saying PPP is because the last time you held on to it. I didn't say that there should be PPP investments, I said that's what the sure thing is that he's willing to go that far. If you do not judge this well, then do not make PPP investments, it is obviously also your responsibility, but we will not be able to obtain these funds. With this proposal, we give a blank cheque to Minister János Lázár, who can point out to any company, and the company will be bought by the MFB. What I also do not get an answer to other than why the Hungarian State is building a portfolio of companies is why the Hungarian State does not provide services where there is no operator to provide services. This is health, education and the social sphere. From these you are pumping out the money, hundreds of billions, and, besides, you are putting money into tasks that are performed by public companies that are constantly being capitalised and acquired that the Hungarians have no use for them. Hungarians benefit from predictable, reliable and accessible healthcare; if there is a chance-making, accessible education, if the social sphere gives everyone sufficient security, and I believe that in these areas you, your government, are not in good shape right now. If this were good for you, and the Hungarian state were still willing to do so, then one would argue a little harder, but now we are in a very bad position, Madam Secretary. And I think that if, on our part, you think there's no confidence in that, I mean, that you have to point at a company, and the state is gonna get it bought by the MFB, then I think you're right about that. I can quote László Fat, who once said - I will not quote him so much, just this once - that we have much more experience than we have any illusion left. That is why we will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, the notary of the Parliament, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the summary amendment proposal, Magyar Development Bank Zrt. acquire or maintain directly or indirectly a holding in, inter alia, a stock exchange, an international financial organisation and a public utility organisation. We can ask the question of MFB Zrt. What he's doing as a part-owner in a stock exchange. The bill makes the MFB an instrument of renationalization. This is considered unacceptable by the LMP since the MFB is the 2013 LXXXV. Act on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the modification of certain economic legislation has played a key role in the legal and violent nationalisation of the cooperative credit institution sector in the last two years. As memorable, after the state took over the management of the Savings Bank, the savings cooperatives had little choice but to obey, similarly to the members of the private pension fund who, as a result of the blackmail, withdrew from the purely state system. Anyone who didn't join the government was locked out of the system and went bankrupt in a short time. The exceptions were that the Danube Savings near Fidesz were exempted from nationalisation. Fidesz uses MFB Zrt. to dress the private property in a legal gown, and then to redistribute it to those who are politically close. Who benefit from this? Everyone can figure it out on their own. Uncontrolled, uncontrolled sources open to the clientele. It is already impossible to list all the illegalities that have taken place over the past five years, which have conflicted with the principles of market economies, including the basic law already being codified by the current two thirds. But let's look at the other side of the plan. The purpose of the amendment to the bill is also that the State-owned MFB Zrt. the acquisition of direct and indirect ownership can take place more flexibly and in a wider economic organisation. At the same time, the MFB could participate in loan financing and guarantees related to EU funds. It is known that Hungary is the second largest beneficiary of the structural funds of the European Union on the basis of per capita grants. In relation to the new aid policy, the Hungarian Development Bank will play a prominent role in the allocation of funds. The MFB will be the hub for the allocation of EU funds to be recovered in the new EU programming cycle. In the 2014-2020 programming period, the MFB, as a fund of funds, provides HUF 700 billion of EU financial instruments for economic development in the form of loans, guarantees, combined products or venture capital. With this, the LMP has serious questions, as EU grants are public funds. With reference to bank secrets, the MFB can make the use of grants completely opaque, and it will not be possible to know how much money, when and for what purpose. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-223	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Nándor Gúr is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the question arises in man: what is really going on; whether Viktor Orbán allows everything to be passed on to János Lázár, or János Lázár takes things out of Viktor Orbán's hands here if we approach things politically. But I do not expect the Secretary of State to answer this question, but rather to confirm the idea that was mentioned earlier; my colleague László Szakács also mentioned it and we consider it important. It is that the state should basically take care of it and perform tasks that serve the interests of people living in Hungary. In English: in education, health care, the social sector and in all areas where direct assistance is needed, don't withdraw funds. You know, I don't have to tell you, in real terms, about HUF 400 billion was withdrawn from health care in 2015. If I take only one slice of education, higher education, then there they have doubled the scale of resources, adding one third less than before. So, in these areas, the state should be the best. Not on surfaces where... - speaking of the confiscation of private pension fund savings, a significant proportion of them buy MOL shares. One word as a hundred, we think this area should be strengthened much more. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Madam Secretary, you have five minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]]
u2015-06-22-226	Thank you for the floor. I'm not gonna waste your time. However, I would like to highlight a few points from what has been said here. The 315 billion in infrastructure development money is not in jeopardy, I would like to point out. The idea of building a public utility service provider is not about networks and the connection of networks in the first place. So I think that if this new package, a new EU resource, becomes available, there will be an opportunity for the company that runs the network, the distributor to fight and fight for this money - this is one of them. Secondly, the source situation has been mentioned here, and the source question is why the government is looking for resources, drawing resources from areas more in need, such as health care. I would like to point out that, in the case of the Development Bank, when the Development Bank receives a mandate of this type, it does not increase public expenditure. Those bond issues, those foreign funds that we just talked about when we talked about transparency, I've spoken out, give us the opportunity for the Development Bank not to finance them necessarily and not exclusively from budgetary sources. [[Dr. László Kács: Who should stand?]] the tasks to be dealt with on the basis of a government mandate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2015-06-22-227	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Szűcs Lajos, Boldog István, Witzmann Mihály, László Tamás, Kerényi János fideszes, Hegedűs Lorántné Jobbikos and Szakács László MSZP colleagues' own motion T/5017. Number 2 is available on the IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/5017/4. was given to them. Now I'm going to ask the authors who's going to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs as rapporteur on the agenda within a 10-minute time frame. What you're using, Congressman, for the presentation of the 10 minutes, is that much less time to close. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would just like to thank my fellow Members, with whom we are sitting in a certain brokerage committee, and without regard to party standing, party affiliation, we have been able to present this bill. We hope that, then, if Parliament adopts it tomorrow, we can begin to examine why this proposal was made. Once again, I would like to thank everyone involved in this work. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-22-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. You'll have a lot of time at your disposal; I'm sorry, I didn't see the time at the time, but our technical colleagues will write this down and tell me. I'm going to ask if, on behalf of the government, Mrs Secretary of State would like to speak now. [[Lászlóné Németh: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. You can see the time frame. There will still be no two-minute speeches during the debate. I will give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák and he will give the opportunity to the first speaker, László Szakács. Thank you very much for your cooperation. [[It's a rare applause.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-06-22-230	I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to the written speaker, MEP László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-22-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, my joy is not as undivided as that of my fellow Member Lajos Szűcs, because this bill, which has now come before us, has a somewhat bumpy story. At first it was presented to the committee, and then the committee was, as it were, ready to take this situation - I am talking about the Quaestor Sub-Committee - and it was clear from this proposal that, from the missing money estimated by experts to approximately HUF 200-220 billion, a legislative proposal is now being made to see if the Bajoran Government had given it the right legal authority or suggested that the MFB would then give money for the construction of ETO Park. Here, I will obviously put in parentheses whether, in Győr, then fidesz-led, who of those not necessarily famous for the worship of football would have said the most loudly that money should be spent for this purpose. But we thought, by the way, that 17 billion could be part of this 220 - I'm not sure - to find out the truth. At the time, I suggested we go to the mystery man. Since then, I have understood because I have been understood that the secret owner has asked for such an amendment, and accordingly we have signed it. Which is why I cannot fully share the joy that only this proposal has been put here, that I have also tabled another one, because at the committee meeting, we have decided not to be prepared for a presentation, let us add our own expertise, the comments of the experts around us, and let us add something to that. Mr President has asked us not to go beyond the authority of the committee. In fact, we are not overstepping the scope of anything, we have submitted it as an individual representative. I also said in the last debate that this could actually be a constitutional amendment, and we could have submitted it quite calmly. At the last committee meeting, my proposal was negotiated on the Committee on Budgets, which would have made a much wider circle public. In fact, it was about requiring and accessing data in the public interest wherever there is public money, of course within the framework of the law. Obviously, we at Quaestor are also interested in how budget money gets there, how the ministries' money gets there, especially how the ministries' money is tied down, when we talk about a constantly lack of funds in the budget, where do they come from, in what way, under what terms, how and how they got there. I thought, when I presented this proposal to avoid truncated proposals, that is why a lot of things should be available as public data, from the National Earth Fund to the European Union's proposals, wherever there is even Hungarian taxpayers' money as a self-power. I would like to highlight this sentence here. So I'm not talking about making this public, I'm talking about making it accessible as data of public interest, so that access to these data can only be enforced by court. This proposal was discussed last time by the Committee on Budgets, if I remember correctly, perhaps last week. The committee members didn't say anything about a content issue, the pro-government members didn't say anything. President Szűcs' letter was presented to me by Vice President Lajos Szűcs. Mr Fat President, obviously for a reason - I do not criticise why he did this - he asked the committees not to include proposals in the extraordinary session that the House is just about to start negotiating. I believe that this is not a comment on the content of this matter, and I myself have said that I think this matter itself is so important, and I am sure that it will be relevant even at the beginning of the next ordinary session, because, thanks to this government, these data will certainly not be available as data of public interest, so I thought that perhaps the Committee on Budgets would take it into consideration and let us negotiate about it, if not before, then at the start of September. To tell you the truth, I also thought that, on the one hand, cooperation, political gestures and, on the other, the desire to get to know each of us, and that is why we are in this committee, not to enlarge certain small cases that can cover bigger cases, to enlarge 17 billion to cover the rest. I think that, with a good conscience, perhaps no pro-government Member can do this, no matter how sensitive the Quaestor is at times in this regard. I see that this gesture has remained unrequited, because without debate, the committee did not allow my proposal to be included in a series of articles, citing the letter of the President, not content bridges, and therefore I cannot share the joy. I said in the debate at the time that we were sitting here in Parliament that the two proposals were obviously connected in our minds. Accordingly, obviously, in our voting behaviour, in our decision spectrum, Fidesz designates a rather narrow line for us. [[18.10]] What he wants, we're looking at, even a law on what he doesn't want, and there's no law on it, even if it's rejected by the majority without discussing content issues, only because it can. That's why the majority rejected it. I think we could have discussed it calmly in September. I hope that I will be able to ask for insight later, and I will be able to ask the government representatives for a good attitude to be at least public information of public interest, to have a broader perspective on the government, financial activities and financial transactions of previous or perhaps future periods. If this can be achieved, I think we will be much closer to the goal that the Quaestor Committee has set itself than we are at the moment. Now we're on the scapegoat, not on the lessons learned, not on the proper regulation of future processes, on the scapegoat. In this respect, I was a partner in your presentation, and you were not partners in my presentation, and I am very sorry for that. That is why I cannot fully share the joy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-22-232	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the political group, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck!
u2015-06-22-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP also submitted an amendment to the draft law aimed at increasing transparency by MFB Zrt. as a public institution without classic private banking activities. We propose that information relating to the assets owned by the MFB should not be considered as bank secrets. However, according to the bill, we see that the purpose of the MFB Act would be to extend the scope of data that are not classified as bank secrets so that the abuse of the Quaestor group could be made public. But the actual goal is to extract a 17 billion MFB loan item from 220 billion forints lost in broker scandals, which also took place in the period before 2010. We still do not know why only in the Quaestor case the resolution of bank secrets is justified, but not in Buda-Cash, Hungária or any other similar case. The fact that only Quaestor had an MFB loan in itself does not answer this question because the MFB's individual contracts are not known as a private bank. So ad absurdum, we can't be sure that there was no development bank money in the other fallen financial groups. In the Quaestor case, the MFB was merely a small gear in a larger machine, where the MNB and financial supervision failed much more severely. Uncovering institutionalized irresponsibleness would only have been possible by setting up a comprehensive committee of inquiry, which was swept off the table by Fidesz. In 2010, at the time of the first amendment of the MFB Act, LMP considered and now believes that there should be no bank secrets for MFB. The MFB cannot be regarded as a normal commercial bank and therefore it is not appropriate for it to be subject to commercial banking rules. Transparency, transparency, is only a key issue in this case because we have the right to see how the MFB, which has billions of farmers, manages, sells to, and for how much of the failed loans of public companies, is a key issue. The MFB manages public funds and therefore is the creditor of a number of public companies. So we, as millions of citizens, are the owners of the MFB, which is why we have the right to know how the Hungarian Development Bank is operated. There's no place for bank secrets here. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-234	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This proposal is quite specific, if I were to put it a little harsher, I would say it's discriminatory. Because what it is like to have full parliamentary support around the principle of transparency and transparency, at least that is what everyone on the democratic side represents, and on the civilian side it is probably also stressed, but at the same time the resolution of banking secrets is selective. So when words are allowed to speak only about the tightening up of the supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank, about the elimination of the possibility of responsibilities by a legislative passage or clause, but also here they want to extend transparency to certain things regarding the Hungarian Development Bank - so I represent what has already been said here on the democratic side, so that the operation of the Hungarian Development Bank should be transparent, transparent, not just for a certain ETO-park question, but for the entire activities of Quaestor and the entire activities of other companies affected by a bank scandal, and then together we will determine how the question stands. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-22-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak within the time frame available to them. [[There's no candidate.]] No. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, who has applied for a reply to what was said in the debate. Lajos Szűcs!
u2015-06-22-237	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I'm one of the authors, and I'd like to clarify something in front of everyone. When we asked for amendments to the MFB bill, we asked for it precisely because we knew that there was information about the Quaestor case that we would like to request from this particular financial institution. And the master of the secret said that at the moment there was no other way to touch this question. I think that all the sentences that Mr Cook and Mrs Schmuck said were an advance to what we had not already done; but we did not say that we would not do it. At the committee meeting, we told Mr President that if we had adopted this proposal at the moment, the house rules would not have allowed the way of this series of legislative amendments, since at the moment there is not a session, but a strange situation here, according to the house rules, that the government asked for extraordinary sittings, not a session. I think that if we return to these questions in the autumn, we will find appropriate solutions to these problems. You have advanced it, but it was also said at the committee's then meetings that we would like to put together, obviously with a majority will, an amending package on the House's table, so that a series of frauds such as Quaestor, Buda-Cash and any scandal at the moment, especially involving small capital, cannot start in Hungary. I think that's the most important purpose of the committee that we're working together on. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is examining a section of this, but we hope that we will get to the point where we will be able to do so with a broad layer of this. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this amendment in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-238	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the summary amendment proposal for the amendment of the related laws. The submission is T/4887. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4887/3. and T/4887/4. was given to them. [[18.20]] T/4887/6 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment. No. T/4887/7 and its summary meaning T/4887/7. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-22-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Because the Legislative Committee is T/4887. and T/4886. The Commission's majority position on the two legislative proposals has been discussed in a consolidated manner, and I will refer to it in the T/4886. At the time of the hearing of bill No 1. T/4887. Legislative proposals Nos 4886 and 4886, such as CLXXXIII 2005 on rail transport. I would like to present the outcome of the amendment of law and related legislation and the negotiation of other draft law on non-rail transport, which was negotiated by the Legislative Committee on 18 June 2015 and has decided below on the legislative proposals to amend the laws relating to the aforementioned law. In the background, the Committee made a 1 point amendment, which was unanimously supported by 32 votes in favour. The Legislative Committee made its own 12-point amendment, which was adopted by our committee by 26 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstention. The proposal is intended to comply with the European Union's rail directives and to modernise legislation for the sector. The first railway package will be fully reviewed and recasted between 2010 and 2012, as a result of which the European Parliament and the Council adopted Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single European railway area. The Directive partially transformed the services provided to railway companies, which also changed the rules on infrastructure charging and calculation, including new operators, service facilities and their operators. In addition, it has tightened the independence conditions with regard to the market surveillance authority, the railway administration, on many points. In this way, it has brought significant changes to rail regulation, which also required a rethink of a number of legal institutions at the level of domestic legislation. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 25 votes to seven, with no abstentions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Later, obviously. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. In the course of the debate, two-minute contributions are not possible, and first I give the floor to the Members who have made themselves known in advance in writing, first I give the floor to MEP Pál Völner, Fidesz.
u2015-06-22-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport Act T/4887 amending Act T/4887 and related laws There is a bill before us. On the basis of the Commission's report, the proposal complies with the Decision House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 (), i.e. it meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the whole of the legal system, complies with international and European Union law and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. No amendments were tabled to the proposal, except for the Committee on Economic Affairs and for clarification, as my fellow Member Vécsey has just listed, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment, which is intended for drafting and language positioning. Let me remind this House that the proposal serves to comply with the Union's rail directives, including legislative modernisation in line with the fourth railway package. In this context, a number of amendments made necessary by national needs are also reflected in the proposal. Firstly, it makes decision-making and regulation on rail development three steps. It is the responsibility of the State to design railway lines of national importance and to regulate the operation and use of national infrastructure. The proposal states that it is for the Government to approve the concept of rail transport policy and the development of rail transport, to enforce and fulfil national interests and obligations related to rail transport, to approve the infrastructure strategy for rail infrastructure, to establish national railway sidelines in a regulation and to carry out railway tasks related to defence, civil protection and disaster response. On the basis of the draft legislation, the Minister for Transport prepares and organises the implementation of rail transport policy and the rail development concept, the railway infrastructure infrastructure development strategy. The Minister shall establish or designate companies for the maintenance and operation of railway lines of national importance. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the Commission report and the summarised amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-242	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr István Józsa, Member of MSZP.
u2015-06-22-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Given the nature of the proposal, this is a rather comprehensive EU legislative proposal for harmonisation, transposing Directive 2012/34/EU into the Hungarian legal order. A significant work, but not free from codification problems, is an anomaly in drafting, as the unanimously adopted amendment has shown us that of course we have not resisted it. The first railway package has been fully reviewed and recasted in the EU between 2010 and 12 in order to create a single European railway area. The Directive has partially transformed the scope of services provided to railway companies, changed the rules on infrastructure charging and calculation, brought new operators, service facilities and their operators into the regulatory sphere, and has very rightly tightened up the conditions of independence in a market surveillance authority or professional language: rail administration. We think that's right. It has thus brought significant changes to rail regulation, which also required a rethink of a number of legal institutions at the level of domestic legislation. [[18.30]] Therefore, the main cause of the major amendment to the Railway Act is the transposition and enforcement of the rules of the Directive, but in this context there was also an opportunity to apply a number of amendments required by national needs. As compared to the previous legislation, while the definition of the territorial scope of operating licences was not defined by geographical or administrative territorial units at the time of the establishment of the 2005 Act, but by the indication of the railway infrastructure available or operated by the railway organisation, the Directive also made a conceptual change in this matter. On the basis of the EU Directive, services, such as operating permits, are not determined by the railway infrastructure on which the service is carried out, but by the focus of the territorial service, as urban, suburban, regional and national rail traffic can take place on the same track section, so that the infrastructure cannot only be classified as one or the other. In view of this, the designation of operating licences, such as a national or urban passenger licence, referred to the service performed by the railway company but does not constitute an exclusive qualification for infrastructure. The bill maintains the concept of regional rail services, ensuring the conditions and possibility for the organisation of regional rail services based on the free association of local authorities, which can be better adapted to the needs of the population of the geographical area concerned. The suburban passenger transport service remains, quite rightly, but the importance of this can be demonstrated both in Budapest's agglomeration and in rural metropolitan areas, based on traffic data and statistical data. Thus, the suburban passenger transport service means meeting the passenger needs of the agglomeration in the context of traditional rail transport, typically the HÉV, as opposed to specific urban rail transport such as tram. In addition, the rail-electric or tram-train service has been included in the law; many suspect the legal possibility of building the Hódmezővásárhely-Szeged railway line, the electrical line - if it is a tram line - if it is eligible for EU funding. What I'm saying is that no matter whether we call it tram-train or interurban railway, it's all about developing and satisfying local residential needs at the highest possible level. Further changes in infrastructure and services provided that the Directive sets out a basic service package which must be provided by the infrastructure manager. Among other services, it establishes a new legal institution, the service facility and the operator of the service facility. The latter, in line with the actual practice, may be the infrastructure manager, or it may be a railway undertaking and a third party, since, for example, fuelling equipment can be operated by any company on a business basis, it can no longer be excluded by the infrastructure manager, nor prevent access to these facilities. This creates a number of new opportunities, further increasing market conditions and the spread of competition in the rail sector. Of course, the railway infrastructure manager is not excluded from these, but the railway management body also has the power to examine whether open access is ensured and whether the services and prices used in each installation meet the conditions of fair competition, i.e. whether it can be compared to the actual cost and other price levels available on the market; so, monopolisates cannot be constructed. This is a correct record of the bill before us. In the case of railway vehicles, basic provisions on the organisation responsible for maintenance have been included in the legislation in order to establish the legal framework. The legislation on railway workers has not changed, and the bill does not affect this, as is the case, which is a national competence. In the opinion of the MSZP, however, given the specific circumstances of the railway, given its specific work needs, this may not be sufficient to remain at this level. It would probably be more appropriate to think, in cooperation with railway workers' unions, about a regulation for special workers and railway workers. But this is not the task of this law, and this could be discussed later. In summary, it can be concluded that this amendment is reflected in the legislative intention of transposing the Hungarian railway traditions, maintaining domestic relations, continuing the practice, continuing the success of the railway sector in Hungary and maintaining its competitiveness, improving it, and improving the domestic railway sector. In addition, we have also said our critical remarks, and we have not always been able to correct and enforce them, so a supportive abstention will be our voting attitude. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-244	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Ander Balázs, Member Jobbik.
u2015-06-22-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Well, one eye cries and the other laughs when we look at the amendment of the law before us, because we have found a number of forward-looking points in this proposal that will certainly help solve the problems created in the field of railway and accumulated over decades, which we agree, Mr Secretary of State, were not caused by the racist, anti-Semitic better conspiracy. Well, I'd like to begin with praise, because we can divide the bill into three parts here and our position on it. The first is indeed the sound of praise, for example, the welcome change that the suburban network can no longer be formed only in the area of Budapest is a major step forward, since this opportunity also opens up to rural cities with a large railway area. We have to admit that. The second point concerns the new legislation on open access, the allocation of track capacity, capacity allocation of service facilities, the obligation to rent, the one-stop shop, the surcharges on track access charges and the concession of service facilities. We can also support these, I say: these would also help solve the problems. Additional eligible ideas: simplified regulatory provisions for industrial tracks and the operation of own-use railway infrastructure. It is a regrettable fact, moreover, that, in Hungary, in the last two decades, the over-regulation that we have seen so far is partly the adoption of the strict provisions on the large railways, and because of its unthinkable application, many production units have lost the opportunity to deal with integrated freight transport. This has been very damaging, as it has put goods transport on the road in a favourable position, along with all its negatives. However, the provisions that are now being introduced can lead to a slow recovery process, as has already been explained earlier, which can help to halt the loss of the national freight transport role of the rail network and create more economic opportunities to create new ones, which can improve the competitiveness of rail transport vis-à-vis the road. This is, in Jobbik's view, a vision to be supported in all respects. We also warmly welcome the introduction of simplified provisions for the operation of small railway and museum railways, which was also explained last time. From a tourist point of view, or if you think of families, families with small children, then this is all a step that is clearly positive and only to be supported. [[18.40]] Although there have already been discounts on procedural charges for transport authorities, the conditions for large railway trains in terms of technical, railway safety and administrative burdens have so far been valid for these small trains, in a completely pointless way, which has only prevented their survival and development. Compliance with these regulators meant additional funding for small railways, which, in many cases, led to the indicated end, to degradation, even though they may have significant tourist potential, to meet tourist needs or to approach tourist destinations. It is also a forward-looking point in our view that the setting up of an infrastructure category, which opens the way for the reconstruction of some of the infrastructure elements currently neglected, which are designed to play a significant role in the long term. The exception of international discrimination simplifies the classification system, the breakdown of the service into categories follows the above, the public traffic discharges out of them, so, in principle, any category of service can be operated on a market basis without a public service contract, so this should be supported in any case. In principle, the concept of the new law, through the integrated railway company, allows the re-assessing of the previously torn MÁV into a legal person. The EU did not at the time require us to dismember the MÁV, but to separate the accounting management of the railway activity, which was then misinterpreted, which is why the MÁV was dismantled, so we believe that this could be good and that it would only have to be implemented. The intention is unclear, Mr. Secretary, so I would like to ask you here: what is the further plan for this? After all, the independent infrastructure manager remains an existing conceptual element, so that everything remains the same, which, on the other hand, may not be the right direction. I respectfully request your response to this. My fellow Member, Józsa, mentioned the so-called rail-electric, tram-train systems, which is also a different regulation, a new element in this law. We do not want to point the finger at János Lázár; the implementation of such a tram-train system can be forecasted in Hungary now, between the Szeged-Hódmezővásárhely. I come from a small town called Barcs, I know exactly what it means when such a small town has a very strong man of interest, the people there are happy about it; Barcs Losonczi had a great deal to do with Paul in the past system, and the Hódmezővásárhelyi certainly had a great deal to do with János Lázár. The big question here is, and I would like the Secretary of State to answer this clearly, what the fate of the Szeged-Békéscsaba line will be, i.e. if the tram-train is introduced or implemented, whether it will remain, or if it can close down, and the Békéscsaba-Szeged rail connection, direct passenger and freight transport will cease. We would like a clear confirmation that something like this will not happen. An important difference from previous laws is that the task of the State is to operate and develop only national infrastructure and national railway lines. Part of this is that only the operation, renovation and development of these railway lines constitutes a direct public task, an activity of public interest and public interest, so we fear that, if this amendment is adopted, the rural railways will lose even the hope of state development. We feel that there is a serious threat here, and there may be no future development or state-sanctioned career maintenance. I would also like to expect the Secretary of State's reassuring reply that this will not happen. What we see as a very, very serious problem is that the classification of railway lines of national importance is not regulated by the law. It was also mentioned last time that the regulation of this regulation was subject to a government decree, and the amendment of the regulation will take place after the amendment of the law, and Parliament has no influence on it, only the government. Thus, pro-government, individual elected representatives will be in a very easy position, if appropriate, when a line in their district ceases to exist, they can force this responsibility on the government and they will wash their hands. Otherwise, this attitude, the elected representatives would have the right or right to have a say in which areas the railway transport routes may enter into this beneficiary, which is State-supported, and can therefore continue to be expected to develop in the future. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether and why, if not, the list of national sidelines should not be included in the law and why they should leave the regulation of this. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a government order. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-246	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteurs to Mr Laszlo Tasó, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. He's got a ten-minute window.
u2015-06-22-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank the MSZP for its support, although I really do not understand how to support it by abstaining. It's easy to press yes button, by the way, there's no such thing as a big sin in my opinion. I am trying to answer the questions of my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, who is the representative of Jobbik. A large percentage of the proposal is supported, which we were pleased to hear; most of the elements of the regulation, I have heard, are supported by Jobbik's faction; and they welcome again the rise in rail transport, which is clearly our intention, and we have made it clear in our presentation. In the same way, we have heard about the small railway and the operation of the museum railways, the regulation of which is also supported by Jobbik's faction. Of course, the new regulation of the sidelines was also welcomed by the Jobbik fraction. I would note here that the ministerial regulation must be sufficient to regulate and make the list available to everyone, if requested, so that we do not need to include it in a bill, a ministerial decree is enough to list the side trains. It was definitely an important question whether we wanted to keep it separate and whether we wanted to separate track distribution and track operation. This is also naturally due to the transposition of the directive, since one of the important elements of the EU directives is the need to separate these two actors. In connection with the Békéscsaba-Szeged line, he asked if the tram-train investment was affected. In no way does it affect you, the Szeged-Békéscsaba line must work, it is already under development. The government's intention is clear: if we have such a resource for the railway, which we can put together from EU sources and from home, then it is also in our elemental interest to operate, not to build our railways, and not to renovate them so that we do not operate them. Naturally, state care and public funding will remain on all lines. The questions I heard from my fellow Member were around them. Dear Parliament, The debate on bill 4887 is closed. The purpose of the bill was to establish the legislation necessary for the transposition of the European Union directive establishing a single railway area and to make amendments. With the adoption of the bill and its notification to the European Commission, Hungary has also fulfilled its EU obligations. Compared to the previous directives in force, the Directive has changed the scope of services available to freight and passenger companies in railway infrastructure to a small extent, and has indeed changed the rules for the use of railway infrastructure, its training and calculation. It is a fundamental novelty that, after the adoption of the bill, the Rail Transport Act no longer includes fixed track systems that have so far been included in the scope of the regulation, the glider, the ski lift, the hanging railway and the carriageway. This will be naturally dealt with in the next proposal, since this regulation will be included in our proposal 4886. [[18.50]] Another change is that we have also reviewed the existing concept of the law and have modified it in line with the concept of the directive, which has been grouped along a new logic. During the transposition of the rules of the directive, we have taken special care to take into account the Hungarian peculiarities, and to exempt from the strict rules of the directive all businesses and activities that were otherwise marked by the speakers. To conclude the debate on the bill, thank you for the support of the Economic Committee, the work of the Legislative Committee and all the relevant comments that have been made to help negotiate the proposal. I respectfully ask that you support both our amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the submission of other non-railway transport and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The submission is T/4886. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4886/3. and T/4886/4. was given to them. T/4886/6. and the summary report is T/4886/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-22-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The main reason for the establishment of a law on non-railway transport was that the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport in force, cited several times in this debate. The main objective of the Act was to transpose EU legislation, and thus the regulation was not drawn up in sufficient detail for minor fixed track systems, since these fixed track activities differ significantly. At the same time, these fixed track systems are gaining ground within the framework of recreational or tourist activities, as our fellow Member Ander mentioned, as well as active forms of recreation. I refer here to the Secretary of State, such as the chairlift, the ski lift and other forms. All these reasons have been justified in order to establish the framework for them in a separate law, separated from the regulation of rail transport. Perhaps even more of our citizens are affected by the regulation of trolleybus transport in addition to the fixed track devices serving these forms of tourism or rather rest. This is to the extent that transport by road is a fixed road mode, provided that it is known that the supply of power is determined by the overhead contact line as a fixed track. Overall, by adopting the law, other fixed track activities, which have not been or have not been regulated in detail in many of the elements of the law, will benefit from a system in the form of a regulatory framework. In conjunction with bill No 4887, the Legislative Committee discussed this bill and this amendment, and adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 25 votes in favour, 7 against and without abstention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-250	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First of all, I would like to give the floor to MEP Pál Völner, Fidesz, of the Members who have applied in advance.
u2015-06-22-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, T/4886 on other fixed track transport other than rail. We are discussing bill number 1. In the Commission's report, we found that the proposal complies with the House Rule 44 of the Decision. Paragraph 1 (), therefore, the House is discussing a proposal that meets the professional requirements of legislation. No amendments were tabled to the proposal, so the Economic Committee and, as a clarification, the Legislative Committee submitted an amendment, which were text-oriented or legislative proposals. The point of the proposal before this House is, on the one hand, what my fellow Member Vécsey mentioned, is that the recreational activities previously covered by the Railway Act, which would have been applied under too strict regulatory frameworks, could be excluded from its scope by this new law, and therefore the organisational, operational, safety and technical framework for railway activities on a fixed track, but not on a rail track, is regulated by a separate law. Furthermore, the regulation of the fixed track of the trolleybus was also taken into account in this law. As a result of the overhead contact line, the fixed track for the power supply is of crucial importance and can therefore be dealt with by law practically separately. The bill also regulates the system of organisation for the authorisation and official control of fixed track systems, so it regulates this area in every way and for the future. In view of the above, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the Commission report and the summarised amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-252	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr István Józsa, Member of MSZP.
u2015-06-22-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The agenda is closely linked to the amendment of the previous Rail Transport Act. One of the positive consequences of the transfer of EU harmonisation is the fact that there is a separate law for non-rail rail fixed track systems, which have been provided for by the Railway Act, for example, the authorisation of a long-standing trolleybus with environmental importance in urban transport or the construction of ski lifts for tourist purposes. These systems, although basically bound by track systems, show a certain relation to the railway network, do not belong strictly to this system. As EU legislation has largely focused on so-called large railway systems, more rules should be exempted from these permits for atypical fixed track networks than would actually apply to them from the large rail system. Therefore, following the amendment, the Railway Act will not include either the authorisation of the trolleybus track or the operation of the ski lifts, the glider, the cableway. These are subject to a separate law in the context of this proposal, which also gives the possibility to include recreational and tourism-free fixed track instruments such as hand-drive and legislation. The practice shows that there is a need for them, and they have appeared in Hungary, and it was therefore appropriate to regulate their legislation in the interests of safety in the first place. [[19.00]] The reason for the creation of a law on other rail transport, as I mentioned, is CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. Law adaptation and amendment to the primary objective set out in EU legislation and thus to achieve a new regulation for minor fixed-track systems in sufficient detail. These fixed track activities vary considerably, and therefore this regulation in a separate law is sufficiently justified to separate it from the regulation of rail transport, which is otherwise strict or with other emphasis, and to apply a separate law to other non-rail rail rail transport solutions. This self-regulation is expected to give new impetus to the development and authorisation of these areas. The Minister for Transport and the Railway Transport Authority shall carry out administrative and administrative activities in this area. The proposal states that a technical licence is required, with the exception of lower cabled ski lifts, for all the vehicles already mentioned above: trolleybuses, ski lifts, gliders, cableways, and so on, the best known among them is the Libergo and the tourist drive. The technical authorisation shall cover the technical authorisation to be issued for the construction, installation, modernisation, conversion, use, maintenance and termination of other fixed track tracks and for the installation of vehicles operating on other fixed road transport systems. The technical authorisation is issued by the Transport Authority and therefore has a sufficiently thorough and secure background. The regulatory framework for other tied-track activities, which are not or only partially regulated in many of the elements so far, is thus in a legal form, which we believe to be useful and for safety. At the same time, the proposal mainly contains technical rules. According to the current legislation, this has been authorised elsewhere, in the case of large railway systems, or has not been dealt with at all by a safety requirement. The MSZP supports the bill because it deals primarily with the inclusion of certain types of fixed-track transport in specific legislation, which we believe to be dealt with in a forward-looking manner by technical rules. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Ander Balázs, Member Jobbik.
u2015-06-22-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to comment very briefly on the bill on non-railway transport, because my fellow Members here have said everything in front of me, and Jobbik can obviously support this bill, as we have said before. The reason for the specific regulation of the draft legislation we are discussing is that recreational, civil and tourism-bound transport has a relatively small risk, and therefore there is no reason for the detailed regulation required by the Railway Act, so the regulations on large railway systems are completely unjustified here. Moreover, this area does not fall within the scope of EU law, and the trolleybus which is still included is completely out of line, let's say, with the result that it falls within the scope of the ordinary rail law, since it is subject to all relevant legislation on road transport, but because of the overhead line, it is a fixed-track transport system, not a railway. So it is quite clear that this is also subject to new legislation and other regulations. We would have liked to have had the 16th, by the way. § 3 if the amendment proposed by Jobbik is included in the law, because we have noticed or believe that in some cases the customer would be excluded from exercising his procedural rights under this regulation, and, as we have already stated here, the elimination of such a guarantee rule cannot be justified in our opinion. Nevertheless, once again, Jobbik will, of course, fully support this bill, as we also have in mind its tourism-enhancing effect, its territorial development effect, and it will obviously support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] With regard to paragraph 1 of this Article, if the amendment proposed by Jobbik is included in the law, because we have noticed or believe that, in some cases, the customer would be excluded from exercising his procedural rights under this regulation, and, as has already been stated here, the elimination of such a guarantee rule cannot be justified in our opinion. Nevertheless, once again, Jobbik will, of course, fully support this bill, as we also have in mind its tourism-enhancing effect, its territorial development effect, and it will obviously support it. Thank you very much. (Applause from Jobbik's ranks. )
u2015-06-22-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframe. [[Dr. István Józsa indicates his intention to comment.]] I don't see any contact... [[Dr. István Józsa: I volunteered, Mr. President.]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-22-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to what was said in the debate because I did not know that the support would be unanimous. I congratulate the Secretary of State for bringing to this House a presentation that has been able to obtain support from all sides. I would like this to be an encouragement to you that it is worth studying the EU's legislation in substance, not only by looking at its obligations, but also by taking advantage of the opportunities set out therein. This is such an example when you have made good use of the opportunity offered by EU harmonisation, so consider it a professional success that this is not a political issue, but a professional solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm gonna see if there's still a comment. [[No one's reporting.]] No. The debate is closed. I now give the floor on behalf of the authors to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2015-06-22-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your support. It has become clear that it was worth distinguishing from the major railway other rail rail systems, and it was worth drawing up a proposal for which support has been given to us by all the factions. I would also respectfully ask you to do so during the vote. It is quite clear that our aim was to facilitate and simplify regulation and to reduce all administrative burdens and to make sensible provisions; this seems to have been clear and successful for everyone. I would like to thank you with respect for your support, and please also do so during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the rules for the allocation and targeted use of the emissions trading system for the Hungarian State and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The submission is T/4819. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4819/3. by serial number T/4819/4. they have been granted a serial number. T/4819/6. by serial number T/4819/7. is available on the website by serial number. [[19.10]] Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, in no more than eight minutes, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-22-261	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby notify the Honourable Parliament that, at its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4819 amending the rules for the allocation and targeted use of the emission trading system for the Hungarian State. Legislative proposal No 10/ 2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour and 7 negative votes in favour. Under the current budgetary provisions, the Minister for Public Finance and the Minister for Energy Policy are CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. Up to 50-50 per cent of the aviation allowances created by law and up to 25-25 per cent of the cash-in revenue generated from the sale of allowances to installations may commit to one or more of the objectives set out in Article 10 of Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC in order to achieve one or more of the objectives set out in the economic greening scheme and in the green economy financing system. According to the Finance Act, the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. The Minister for Public Finance and the Minister for Energy Policy shall be entitled to decide on one or more of the objectives set out in Article 10 of Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by 50-50 percent of the revenue generated from the transfer of Kyoto units established under the Act. The two sectoral laws, which define the use of quota revenues, also referred to under the Budget Act, are currently not coherent with budgetary provisions, and it is therefore necessary to bring sectoral regulation into line with budgetary regulation. The adjustment also means the precise definition of the targets in the Ministerial Regulations at sectoral level. Other amending provisions in the bill set out the powers of ministers with an impact and responsibility in climate policy in the context of international and EU commitments. In this context, the statutory recording of the tasks to be carried out in the context of international commitments under the responsibility of the Minister for Energy Policy will be settled. The bill also makes other adjustments to ensure that EU and international legal standards and agreements are correctly complied with. Please support the T/4819. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-262	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Dessert.
u2015-06-22-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There was no big debate at the Legislative Committee meeting, there was also a minority opinion, a brief opinion, so I probably won't be too long either. What was formulated at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on the sharing and regulation of the quota revenues of the emissions trading system for the Hungarian State was the following. It has been stated that, in recent years, a practice has been developed adapted to previous regulators, which, if we look at a ten-year perspective, has allowed the public to make good use of this quota, while this has changed significantly over the last five years. It was perceived that we were witnessing a failed quota policy, which meant that when quotas could and would have been sold at a good price, and there was a demand for this, we did not take advantage of this option. When these appeared in practice on the market when they were sold at very low prices, we wanted to sell them, and obviously this is no longer worth it. This means that if we look at the direction this changes in these rules in the coming period, this is very noticeable, and if I remember correctly, the draft legislation 4. It states that it intends to pursue a different practice to date by making this quota amount a source of commitment for international climate finance, which has decreased significantly in the past period and is a completely new practice. During the previous period, these quotas were used for the panel programme. This is what I said, that in the previous period, this was a very sensible use of this quota, which could also be considered for the general public. As I recall, nearly 90,000 apartments have been renovated. And today, if I want to simplify it very much - and at the beginning I promised that I would not be too long, because it really wasn't too long at the TAB meeting - then I can tell you that what has been upgraded to panel buildings will now be paid a membership fee. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask after the designated Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur, and no one has applied for a speech in advance... [[For signal:]] but in place, yes. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This seems to be a very dry agenda, although it is an extremely important issue, the issue of Hungarian contribution to the global problem of CO2 emissions. [[19.20]] The first serious agreement on this CO2 reduction was the Kyoto Protocol or Kyoto Protocol. For this, the Hungarian Parliament joined in 2002 and it was also mandatory for Hungary, which is, let's say, a natural behaviour within the European Union, but this is not so much the way it is in the world. For example, the United States of America, China, India - large emitters - did not accede to this CO2 reduction agreement. It is a big issue in the agreement to be concluded for Paris instead of the Kyoto Protocol which is now due to expire - at the end of this year, in December, the climate change conference - for which there are already forecasts that, if not the Kyoto Protocol, it can make serious commitments in the form of emissions trading so far, but for example in the United States. For example, when the presidential candidates were announced in Hungarian, Mrs.Clinton, in the outdoor use Hillary Clinton, undertook to make America a paradise of renewable energy, which, knowing the commitment of the energy lobby there to fossil energy, is a very big commitment. Let's just sweep around our own house for a while. Hungary joined this in 2002. The CO2 emission base was very fortunately established, because partly due to the entry of Paks I blocks, we had already managed to deliver a significant CO2 savings, so Hungary has already fulfilled its commitment to CO2 emissions between 2020 targets. However, we are not nearly as good in the area of renewable energy recovery, increasing its share and energy efficiency issues, so this is also the issue of our critical comment. This proposal is, in our opinion, a step away from the previous greening programme, the green economy financing programme, because, as my fellow Member Dezső Believer has said, socialist governments have used the total value of CO2 quota revenue for such energy efficiency purposes. I must add that at that time this was a ten billion-dollar revenue, and I would not want to write at the expense of the Orbán government that the carbon emissions trading in the world had collapsed, that these revenues had been reduced; but at the expense of it, I write that the result of their mischief at that time was a loss of ten billion. Imre Szabó, then Minister of Environment and his staff, prepared a very favourable, high-income, 17 billion-dollar emission sales program for the country, which you have mistrusted and clumsy, so that not a fraction of it has been implemented. That's a serious loss. So, by taking over the EU now, another 50-50 percent is being established and other shares are being set, we believe that it is wrong. Just as it is not right that, although they have had five years to develop the MEDÁR, the renewable energy support system, a lot of professional consultations and everything about it, there is still no METÁR in Hungary that can support the production of renewable energies, and as a result, the share of renewable energies in Hungary could increase. It's dropping. The share of renewable energies in Hungary is decreasing when summa energy consumption is also decreasing. This is essentially the result of the economic crisis and the industrial change, that summa energy consumption is not increasing, but that there is no domestic renewable production near the target of 14.7 per cent of such stagnating energy use, this is an extremely big problem and, above all, that it is not increasing but decreasing. So when the mandatory take-over tariff, the KÁT system, was abolished, a serious gas saving option was cut, because when the gas is burned, CO2 is still going into the air. Before 2011, when there was a KÁT system, an annual gas volume of HUF 50 billion could be saved by small power plants producing cogeneration. You know, those gas engines that provided district heating energy for rural district heating plants and also produced electricity in the KÁT system. Let's say, given today's news that your preferred offshore gas business, MET has made 150 billion in gas in a few years; perhaps this 50 billion savings was in the way of the legislators because someone has already told us that MET wants to sell more gas and thus increase its profits. I'm afraid these two are very close. And when we are discussing a seriously responsible approach to CO2 emissions, that is exactly what we are talking about: business interests need to be put in the background because of environmental interests. Because climate change, although some researchers say has not proven what was first, the hen or the egg, that the atmosphere began to warm up first, and then became more carbon dioxide in previous periods of earth history, or vice versa, is certain that over the past 120 years, an incredible amount of carbon dioxide, i.e. very well-defined, has been in the atmosphere, and that, not atmospheric warming, climate change is also happening. This must therefore be done, if for no other reason, in order to modernise the use of energy, to change the proportion towards renewables. So I have to say that renewables are both the future in energy and politics. You cannot represent this renewal. This proposal shows that they do not want to renew, but are stepping back. So I propose that both regulation and source provide much more to reduce CO2 emissions and to boost renewable energies in Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-266	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then, on behalf of the authors, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-06-22-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Questions have not been raised about the amendment of the law or the submission, so there is no need to answer that. A small remark on what has been said. I've already suggested to the dear MSZP faction that you switch experts, because we need to update the information a little bit, and the Secretary of State is very welcome to do so. Although, once again, this is not the case in this law, and it is completely different in relation to the whole thing. With all of this in mind, I ask the honourable Parliament and Members to accept, support and vote in favour of the summation amendment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. Law [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and the 2012 LXIII on the recycling of public data. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission was made in T/4681. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Justice as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4681/2. by serial number T/4681/3. they have been granted a serial number. [[19.30]] Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4681/5. by serial number and summary report by T/4681/6. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-22-269	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information was discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 18 June 2015. Act LXIII of 2012 on the recycling of public data. T/4681. Bill No. 1. In this context, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. Having regard to Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure, it adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 7 against and without abstentions. The purpose of this proposal is the 2011 CXII on the Public Data Act and the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information. Amendment of the PSI Directive to the domestic legal system. At a committee meeting, we heard that the planned date of entry into force of the bill was 1 January 2016. The date will be discussed with the EU Commission in view of the need for preparation time. The summarised amendment contains the technical specifications of the Judicial Committee in order to facilitate clarity and application of the law. Please support T/4681. Law No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-22-270	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Ákos Kara: In the end.]] "At the end," said Secretary of State Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-22-271	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the time of the submission of the Public Data Recycling Act, on 30 March 2012, János Fónagy, State Secretary, said in the Expo, that the bill creates an alternative system of data transfer rules, which fully harmonises EU law, with the aim of serving professional data requests that assume a large amount of regular data transfer. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The reason why the Public Data Act should now be revised is because the underlying Directive 2003/98/EC on the re-use of public sector information has changed. But when did he change? June 2013, or almost two years ago. The transposition deadline is 18 July 2015. It is therefore worth asking what took the Minister for National Development for two years. If they are too late, then what is the reason why the law will not come into force until 1 January 2016. As indicated at the time of the hearing of the existing law, it should be said now that the bill is limited to mere mechanical acceptance of the text of the directive because of the non-comprehensibility of EU legislation. A clear example of this is the 8th bill. The rule that the public service fee, i.e. the amount increased by 5 per cent of the marginal cost, may be the rule that the public service body from which the data is requested must cover a significant part of its public service costs from its own revenues. Neither the law in force nor the amendment is familiar with the concept of marginal costs, which is explained only by the justification. The concept of "sortical" and the concept of "sort of costs" give us the possibility of an explicit arbitrary interpretation of the law, therefore it is unacceptable for us to do so. The codification technique and legal solutions of the proposal are of no quality. Obviously, we are not dealing with Ministry preparation, but if we do, the preparatory staff in the Ministry do not have any basic knowledge of drafting legislation. Furthermore, the purpose of the amendment to the Directive in 2013 was to ensure that valuable cultural material not protected by intellectual property rights could become a public domain. The amendment of the Directive and, consequently, the bill is the new Law on Public Data 18/D. It states that the exclusive right is linked to the digitisation of cultural resources and that the duration of that exclusivity should in principle not exceed 10 years. Where that period exceeds 10 years, the period shall be reviewed during the year 11 and, where appropriate, every seven years thereafter. exclusivity agreements already in existence on 17 July 2013, which do not comply with the possible exceptions, shall be terminated at the end of the contract and no later than 18 July 2043. In this context, there is a very important question: the bill 11. Article 4a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union refers to the consequences of non-compliance with the exclusivity contracts in force on 1 January 2016; Is the reason why the entry into force of 1 January 2016 is because they have concluded or intend to conclude exclusive contracts? The reasons explain why, despite the expiry of the transposition deadline on 18 July, it is necessary to wait until 1 January. It seems, knowing that the lack of preparation time doesn't bother the Fidesz at other times, that preparation is necessary in corruption cases. If not, then explain to the government why you need another semester. Overall, Honourable Parliament, the MSZP does not support the bill. The uncertainties of the application of the law, the unjustified withdrawal of the transposition deadline, and the substandard codification make it impossible for the law to fulfil its purpose, the economic objective for which the EU directive was designed. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-272	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Ákos Kara, who has indicated that he wishes to speak now. Here you go.
u2015-06-22-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to give a little summary of what the law and the bill were actually about before I respond to specific points. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the Act on the Recycling of Public Data and the bill amending the Freedom of Information Act, we are taking another step towards a more modern and citizen-friendly Hungary with a view to helping its businesses. The adoption of the bill further simplifies the rules on the market recycling of public databases. Businesses can provide more valuable and useful services to people based on public databases. Those who followed the previous general debate may know that we have identified specific areas, that we have discussed specific areas here in Parliament. [[19.40]] With further dissemination of public data, we will all be better off - that is what we think of this draft law, which is why we hope to adopt it. The winners of the case are, in part, the companies involved in the processing of data, as they have significant potential for growth. This is not just a Hungarian peculiarity. The regulation is also beneficial for the Hungarian state, as the growth of businesses means new jobs, employment and GDP growth, which can mean, I note, also throughout Europe, so not only in Hungary, we are waiting for this. However, the biggest winners of the measure, and here is the point, will be citizens who can access public data more easily and conveniently with the help of the Internet than ever before. Social utility is perhaps the most important benefit of public data recycling, because the state collects data and creates databases for the benefit of citizens. Recycling also contributes to achieving real access, access to users, and effective support for their daily lives through these data, for example, a mobile application, which is used by almost every person every day. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal negotiated is an important step in the further expansion of domestic public data recycling. However, we are aware that a law alone does not solve all the problems, so, as I referred to earlier, I mention that, in addition to the adoption of this law, we are currently working on a public data recycling policy that will help further practical measures to meet the above objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. and Mrs. Congresswoman spoke to him, so in order. I would like to reject the accusation on the part of the left-wing opposition about corruption. With regard to the indication of codification problems, I would like to say that the legislative committee's amendment addresses the codification problems. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I would like to ask you to support the bill and the summarised amendment. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-274	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain state-owned property laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The submission is T/4853. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4853/2. and T/4853/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4853/5. and the summary report is T/4853/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-22-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4853 amending the laws concerning certain state assets. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. On the basis of this bill, it is necessary to accelerate certain asset management mechanisms in order to make public asset management more efficient. MNV Zrt. the State, as its heir, obtains and obtains large quantities of legacy assets, the sale of such assets and the sale of acquired and obsolete stocks may be carried out by means of the new electronic system. Unutilised assets, the effectiveness of the sale of the entire portfolio, can be significantly improved. The bill proposes that MNV Zrt. be among the owners' practitioners. operate an electronic auction system under which you can sell state assets flexibly and continuously. According to the ideas, the system is MNV Zrt. it would operate, but all public assets could be connected to the system under an agreement between the owner and the public trustee. If these objectives are supported by my fellow Members, support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-276	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now or if he wants to speak at the end. [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. It is therefore up to its Members to take part in their speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz.
u2015-06-22-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 June 2015, the Parliament's Economic Committee held a detailed debate on the bill amending the laws affecting certain state assets as a designated committee. On the basis of what was read in the Commission report, it can be concluded that the proposal complies with the Decision House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 (), i.e. it meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with international and European Union law and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. No amendments were tabled to the proposal, but only an amendment was tabled by the Economic Committee. This is a proposal of a legal nature, which is the 2007 CVI on state assets. T/5046. It creates consistency with bill No. Finally, let me remind the House that the essence of the proposal is that it requires: the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. is one of the owners' practitioners. operate an electronic auction system, as has already been said in the previous speech, under which you can sell state assets flexibly and continuously. The regulation of the proposed provisions is, in fact, a directional and assignment of tasks for the future as the main actor in the management of state assets, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. In view of the above, please support the Commission's report and the summarised amendment. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-22-278	Thank you very much. Although I have received a signal that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, the Member has delivered the opinion of the Economic Committee. Among the speakers, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, Member of MSZP.
u2015-06-22-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Government representatives always manage to highlight the most unimportant part of one of these proposals, which I believe to include a major transformation, a series of transformations, and one or three of these proposals that are obviously linked to each other, which, by the way, can be very well communicated. Such is the electronic auction system where the NAV system will be used by the Hungarian National Asset Manager. By the way, I'm glad you're using unreliable state assets like this. Not long ago, we heard from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Development that this also involves GDP growth. I wish I could share the enthusiasm that I heard, we're talking 742 million forints. This is obviously a lot of money, but at national and budgetary level, I think that if it is not a rounding error, or at least we can say that we should not expect too much of this; that is not what we will expect the country to rise from. [[19.50]] However, if we consider that from now on, if this proposal is accepted, then public companies will move the real estate, property, whatever these state companies have, in fact, inaccessible, untraceable, in some way, according to the current interest, between themselves, as they wish. I believe that this in itself is an issue that Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary, will not be so proud to say that Transparency International will continue to register Hungarian state firms and the Hungarian Development Bank as one of the most transparent companies. I believe that there will be a concentration of power around the Hungarian Development Bank, and that, through the entire Hungarian Development Bank, state wealth will be gathered under the Prime Minister's Office, a concentration of power in the hands of János Lázár, which obviously has a political nature. Of course, one can also imagine that János Lázár used some devious means to get these matters out of the hands of economic management, sire, even from the hands of the Prime Minister, but I can also imagine that the Prime Minister might want to impose as much burden on the Minister as possible, so that he will not have time for anything else. It's an unmanageable quantity, and you're asking us to give you that blank cheque, so that the Minister's order will make these assets your own way. We trust that it is not the way it pleases us, but professionalism tends to wear off when the amount of power and wealth in one hand is combined. The House is discussing three proposals today, two now, a little more separated in time than last time, because then they came in a quick succession, and the third will be discussed tomorrow, with which this package of laws will be completed. In the first, we discussed the powers of János Lázár regarding the Hungarian Development Bank - this was discussed a few hours ago - so let's say that it has expanded considerably. You can give the bank a mandate, practically - I translate this into Hungarian - you can order the bank to create its legal instruments, the financial conditions for buying the company that it needs, and the Hungarian state, and expanding the portfolio of the MFB from real estate management to start with everything. Now, in this proposal, there is a broadening of the portfolio and activity, but let us not forget that there were two other state companies, state companies, which were set up recently. There is a First National Public Works Company, which we fundamentally disagree with, and we have to say it here too. You should be provided where there is no operator to provide, and you should make the huge catch-up where no one can, Mr. Secretary, make up for it instead of you. This is the healthcare, education and social sphere, which should be spent on, not building a portfolio of companies. Also, Central Data Collector and Processing Ltd., whose goals, I believe, are basically correct, is another question of whether these goals are attainable, but in any case we say that they are ambitious, and that if they really save consumers HUF 5-6 billion, then this goal is right and attainable. And it should always be understood in this context that this non-profit, non-profit issue in this matter is how a company will develop without, of course, making a profit, but I do not think that it will have enough money for maintenance. Tomorrow, we will discuss a third proposal where every single one of them will be involved in the Prime Minister's Office, where the Prime Minister's Office has not yet been able to put its hands on it; all in the spirit of being efficient, simple and fast. I have also said in the general debate that I do not want to be cynical, but in my view, efficiency, speed and simplicity are aspects of cooking, not when such wealth should be treated transparently with public funds for the common good, so that at least the majority, I think, is satisfied. Transparency, transparency and bureaucracy in these contexts, I do not think are the words to be avoided. At that time, even in the general debate, we heard that the obstacles to bureaucracy have finally been removed. No, Mr. Secretary, you're breaking down red tape. The state is based on bureaucracy, the state's organisational capacity depends on how it can maintain bureaucratic order. Of course, that can be made effective, but you have now taken the position that it will be effective by giving it to a man. I'm not even going to go to the point where you're going to have to take care of this man now, because I'm really telling you that the wind won't be able to hold him after all, if these three proposals are going to be voted for by you. I think it is a pity to break out the electronic auction system, a very, very small slice of what I have said, what I have spoken about, and I believe that it is the substantial portion of this proposal and of these three proposals, an unprecedented, incredible, opaque concentration of power and wealth in the hands of a member of the government, Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office János Lázár. And that, perhaps, I think, is not a beauty patch, perhaps just a very cynical way of exercising power, so that all of these means of living without the neck of one of his fellow ministers, János Lázár, will be asked by Minister Miklós Seszták in the presentation. I believe that this is political cynicism in itself, and we will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-22-280	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that there is only a little time left, because transparency, transparency and even compliance can, in my opinion, be expected if the government sets an example. So when you want to create a central data collection zrt., you probably wouldn't just want to collect the data but also provide it, but there is a service system in the legal system that currently works at a very peppery price, this is the Legislary. So I would very much like to have access to the Literature, at all the ministerial decrees, municipal decrees... - so give citizens more help in this. There are other law-abiding Hungarian citizens who, if they learn about the legislation, are happy to comply, because that is their motivation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-282	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Kara Ákos, to express his summary thoughts.
u2015-06-22-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If you allow me, first of all, I thank you for all the opinions, comments and criticism that have been given so far on the bill, of course the comments, opinions, professional approaches that have been made in this House in a tone, in a tone that I think, or think that many people outside Parliament think that it makes sense to have meaningful debates, even if they have different values and say things in different approaches. So obviously I am not going to talk about what the left-wing opposition has just said here, which made personal remarks, which are obviously not worth responding to. I think that it does not concern the people, the voters, to any extent. If you'll allow me, I'd like to sum up the substance of the bill a little bit, and I'd like to sum up the past period. The government's primary objective is to further increase the efficiency of public asset management. This is also the purpose of the bill that we are discussing, by modernising the sale of assets no longer necessary for the State, by introducing an electronic auction system and by making small changes to the cost-effective operation of state wealth management. [[20.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the proposed electronic auction system has a number of advantages over previous sales practices, its operation will lead to significant cost savings, which we expect, and will provide much more publicity than traditional auctions. I would like to say that it has also been said here in the debate, towards the end of the debate, and I also think that, in this respect, this can be a guarantee in terms of transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, The electronic auction system will serve as an effective tool for the currently static, if that term is allowed to be used, large-scale sale of state movable property. In response to the comments raised during the general debate on the bill, I would stress that on the basis of the bill, MNV Zrt. only such instruments are used. its own property, which is currently used by the company and which serves its day-to-day operation. Similarly, there are reasonable and cost-effective criteria for determining the compulsory exemption from the main rule of the supervisory board for publicly owned companies. I think it is worth using this term bravely, the expression of cost-effectiveness. The purpose of the proposal is therefore not to undermine the control of the companies concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In view of all this, I would ask you to support the summarised amendment and, when voting, the whole bill. Thank you again for your comments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-284	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Independent motion by Fidesz Members Sándor Font and László Vécsey T/5039. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture T/5039/3. and T/5039/4. they have been granted a serial number. T/5039/6. T/5039/7. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate, with a total of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dénes Galambos, within a maximum of eight minutes.
u2015-06-22-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed certain issues relating to the procedure relating to agricultural, agri-rural development and fisheries subsidies and other measures in Section XVII of 2007 T/5039. Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, which was not supported by our committee, given the fact that the section on EU legislation in the background on the TAB's own amendment will be clarified. The Committee therefore accepted the TAB's own amendment proposal by 21 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. In practical application, experience shows that MVH's range of means of proof under the procedural law is far from ensuring that a very significant range of customers, in particular farmers in an undivided common-owned area, can be justified, and that a number of documents and contracts that CXXII of 2013 on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land is excluded from the legal list. However, the rules of law - hereinafter referred to as the Land Traffic Act - refer to the title of the right to use. For example, a half pass, a share, a favor land use. The proposal seeks to facilitate the certification of legitimate land use for customers requiring area payments. The current legal land use rules of the law are not sufficiently detailed based on practical experience, as I just referred to. Amendment 1 I would like to add a thought to this article. The amendment would allow proof of legitimate land use on the basis of a lease, half lease, participation, favor land use or sub-lease contract, as well as the rules of use agreement, and would also consider the trustee, the beneficial owner or the holder of the right of use and the owner as legitimate land users. These are the categories which were included in the Land Traffic Act but which were not included in the MVH Rules of Procedure. In addition, it would be possible to establish legitimate land use on the basis of an exchange of uses for seed producers in the Land Traffic Act. According to the proposal, land use of an owner or tenant in an area which exceeds its share of ownership on an undivided common-owned land may also be considered lawful if it is not included in the land-use register except for its own fault. This can be considered legitimate if it has a written agreement allowing land to be used and is supported by its management log, and there is no counter-interested party who would also act as a legitimate user of land in the area. It is further facilitated that in the cases listed so far, a close relative would also be a legitimate land user. These are the practical cases and these are the practical examples that led the legislator to see T/5039. Putting in place bill No. 1. I would ask that the Committee, on the basis of a resolution adopted by the Committee, on the basis of 21 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, and on the basis of what has been said, support be given to the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-286	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We've run into this case a lot. I hope that this regulation, which we do not have a particular problem with, had other reasons for our stay, may be able to rest for a long time. In part, we thought that this bill should have been brought before us by the government itself, and that it would have been even better if it had been before the submission period. Perhaps many did not know that such a change was being made. I'm sure there's no such thing as mass, but I'm sure there's no such thing as a land that you can justify as a legitimate user today, because there's a risk. Someone in this situation could be severely punished, even disbarred. Another interesting feature of the proposal is that at almost the same time an accusation was made in relation to the exact nature of such an organised criminal group in connection with this form of support, or we hope it will be blocked, since a situation has been abused that was precisely aimed at circumventing this certificate and has been tried with a high level of damage, damage of over hundreds of millions, or almost a billion, even over a billion dollars, in the following year. Luckily, we managed to catch this thing in time, so it didn't get any worse. The need for regulation is what I indicated at the committee meeting, and the amendment also deals with this fact that it is because I have also met in my work, not so long ago, in undivided joint with the XIX. Born in the century with a landowner, which is unlikely to be found. [[20.10]] But we said that, obviously, a lot of promises had been made before the change of government, that the undivided joint would now be made right; it certainly was not fixed, and I believe that the government itself saw that with the resources available for this, which are about every year, this cannot be resolved, and indeed there is not a very good professional solution. I believe that expropriation, for example, is one of the solutions that the state could use, but obviously this also has a serious financial impact. What I would like to say is that the bill itself, we hope, will address this issue. What is the reason for our abstention is what I said at the beginning that we prefer it when the government itself accepts it and does not come to us with a separate motion for proposals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-22-288	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[Sándor Font nodds.]] It says yes. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Font, with a total timeframe of ten minutes, together with a possible closure.
u2015-06-22-289	I may have misunderstood at the time, because after I didn't hear any other speaker, [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, we're not there yet, Sanyi!]] I'll say the closing word...
u2015-06-22-290	We're not there yet.
u2015-06-22-291	Then I will not demand it now, and I will wait for another fellow Member to comment. Excuse me, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-292	Good. First, I'm gonna ask who wants to comment. Do you wish to comment from the government? [[On the sign of György Czerván:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2015-06-22-293	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, During the parliamentary debate on the bill, we saw that Mr Font submitted his proposal on a matter that all the factions considered important and necessary to resolve. For many years, the legal land use institution has been the cancer of farmers in applying for aid. With the amendments tabled during the debate, I hope that this issue has been resolved in a satisfactory manner and that regulation will no longer create an administrative barrier to farmers' access to area payments. Thank you for your constructive approach so far, my fellow Members, and I would like to ask you to support the bill in voting, as already mentioned in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-294	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In writing, István Horváth, Member Fidesz, came forward. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-22-295	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr György Czerván and my fellow Member, Dénes Galambos, have already spoken about the amendment of the procedural law, so I would just like to point out once again that the bill has received some important, partly substantive, but mostly legal additions to the debate in the Commission. For example, the conditions under which farmers on undivided common land may qualify as legitimate land users have been clarified and thus eligible for EU aid. I hope that the proposal can be adopted tomorrow and that, as a result, farmers who have successfully completed their applications in areas where their land use has been difficult to justify. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-296	Thank you, Congressman István Horváth. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-06-22-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Member! As we have already said at the general debate and the committee meeting, we support this proposal, because it really solves the problems that we have been seeing for more than a year now. A lot of farmers came to us with this set of problems, as I suppose the government side. The only thing I regret is what I have to say again today is that it will be adopted only today, so late, and, I understand, tomorrow's day, which is difficult for this year's submission period, and this could certainly bring a lot of money to the farmers concerned. It was also mentioned that the Chamber of Agriculture and the wallet will use all means to inform the farmers concerned that there is indeed such a legislative change, and it will be worth submitting a request for areas that are in this uncertain period or areas of uncertainty... At the same time, it is important to say now that this one-year delay cannot be attributed to anyone other than the government's very late response to these various points and problems, since requests have not just begun on the part of those concerned, and the same uncertainties persisted in the last year. Otherwise, it would be worth learning or learning from the Secretary of State what the number of farmers could be and the number of hectares where this problem occurred, because I suspect that it could be hundreds of millions of forints. I understand that the national hat has not become smaller, but it can indeed cause serious losses for the farming community concerned. So I can only stress that in the future we should be more attentive, that the government should be more sensitive to these sounds and react in time, because this is a serious loss for many. Overall, Jobbik therefore supports this proposal and we hope that in the future there will be a much faster response from the government. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-298	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already presented the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the general debate, we have made it clear, and we have also said that we do not understand why this proposal, which we consider to be an important proposal in the form of individual representatives' motion, is a good solution to life-like problems, and which I also highlighted, and I think it is very, very important in this regard, the point on which the bill would allow proof of legitimate land use on the basis of a lease, half lease, share in cultivation, favoral land use or sub-lease agreement. As I have said, therefore, this is a very good and very important part of the bill, but it does not address or only partially address the problem of what we will do with the situation of very problematic undivided common-owned land. We have this, let's say, special Hungarian Hungaricum, the concept of undivided common property, and it is clear that this bill will handle something about it this year, but this problem will not be solved in the coming years, although the government is also trying to co-ordinate budgetary frameworks, but this will not be resolved overall. The remaining vote of the MSZP fraction is due precisely to the fact that, although I say it once again, this is a good bill in this respect, which introduces legal land use certificates, but unfortunately does not address the problem of undivided common land. We would like to draw attention to this deficiency, and that is why we will abstain in tomorrow's votes. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-22-300	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Font Sándor, President of the Commission, who obviously wants to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a ten-minute time frame at your disposal.
u2015-06-22-301	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your support, because professionally everyone knows what this is about, even if professionalism eventually turns into politics, it means they are fleeing to some kind of stay at the MSZP as well. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We are not running away!]] It's okay, the farmers do know that this submission was for their own good. Of course, it is possible to argue why, on a technical basis, an individual MEP's motion, perhaps the date, as Zoltán Magyar indicated, would have been better if it had been submitted sooner. Of course, everything would have been better, the best thing would have been if the privatisation hadn't ended by handing out undivided joint forces at the time, and then we didn't have that problem. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And allow me to turn back here, because, even now, it is possible to ask the current government to immediately solve more than 1 million hectares of undivided common property, but my socialist fellow Members would have had the opportunity for 8, sorry, for 12 years, for three cycles. [[20.20]] They didn't touch it once. Of course, there was a reason for that. Let's be honest about that. What? The fact that the dotes, which were transformed into kft. and a public limited company, were very fond of renting out undivided common properties in which owners could not suddenly do what with their land, and later, at the beginning of the two thousand years, the individual owners could have done with the land, but at that time they did not want to change their undivided common system, since it was very good for those already kft.s and public limited companies that the undivided joint owners could not cultivate their own territory and were sometimes forced to accept with the majority will that we would rent it, because we cannot agree on how to distribute the undivided common ownership system. It's a case that's been taken care of. It's not solved. Yeah, we made the promise that this was over. We see that one of the obstacles to the development of Hungarian agriculture can be the situation of undivided common property. If this is not resolved, then on the one hand, we are not doing enough on the fundamental issue of the right to property to use what is mine. In recent years, we have started to distribute undivided common property primarily in Western Transdanubia. We've been through a pretty successful program there. It is no coincidence that we started there, because in these areas the most sensitive was the hunger for land - the word I can use calmly - especially for farmers from across the border, namely Austria, Italy and the Netherlands. But Zoltán Gőgös knows exactly, who has just criticized this, that there is currently a programme in which the division of undivided common property takes place in two designated districts in each county. Government has never put so much money, energy and equipment in order to dissolve undivided common property. Since Zoltán Gőgös was also State Secretary at the time of socialist government, he knows precisely that this is a very serious system of preparation and needs, starting with the orthophoto system, which can only be photographed perfectly in certain seasons. So it was only in those areas, in those districts, that the undivided commons could be started to disperse what is currently happening, where we already have this photography system. This cannot be launched blindly on 1 million 200 000 hectares of land, which, unfortunately, is today undivided in common ownership. But as I said, no government has put such assets and funds in order to eliminate its undivided common system. So we totally agree on that. It is almost a sideline, an facilitation of the motion tabled by me and László Vécsey to simplify the ongoing debates in the undivided commons, and to accept the case of various items of use by the determining administration, the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, and thus to simplify the exchange between them, and we know exactly what lifelike situations occur between farmers, which we cannot quickly pass through the land administration system. Therefore, the eligibility of land use has not been so clearly accepted by MVH. Together with all this, the debate has been carried out several times. I wanted to refer specifically to his undivided joint criticism and reject the fact that we did nothing in accordance with our promise; so said Zoltán Gőgös. I wanted to prove that wasn't true, because no government has done so much, and it's obviously going to have results because the program is moving forward. I note that the National Chamber of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture have informed village farmers that this law is expected to be adopted. So, which, while still on the move, during the claim period, indicated that they had such problematic areas and that they could be claimed, or what they should be, or not claim at all, because the MVH would then qualify as a prohibited claim, and then the farmer would be punished, well, these farmers would be punished by the villager, at least the one who does his work honestly - let us trust that it is true in the majority of the cases - informed these farmers that they should do so in a calm manner, because on these and on these items that could not be applied for so far, due to a legislative amendment, this budget will be accepted by the system this year. So we also prepared the executive apparatus to inform farmers about this. In this way, we may reduce the otherwise justified loss that some farmers have not been able to claim part of the European Union's land-based subsidies in the absence of title. The information may not have been available to everyone, we do not say so, but this year is a big step forward, and next year we can clearly use this application. Thank you very much to all those who have indicated that you will support our bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-302	Thank you, President Font Sándor of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the production of grapes and wine and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The submission is T/4856. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Agriculture, as a designated committee, to conclude a detailed debate, is T4856/4. No. T/4856/5 and T/4856/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4856/7. and the summary report is T/4856/8. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, in a time frame of up to eight minutes.
u2015-06-22-303	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4856 amending certain laws relating to the production of grapes and wine. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the 18-point amendment proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, which was adopted by 22 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. The Legislative Committee made its own technical clarification amendment, which was also supported by our committee. Part of the proposal contains technical clarifications, which will also help to further reduce administrative burdens. Among other things, it allows for forced slaughter in case of plant health hazard in uncultivated wine grape plantations. It lays down the rules of the new system of authorisations for vine planting in force from 1 January 2016 and allows for the replacement of planting rights issued until 31 December 2015. It also clarifies the penalties applicable to wine counterfeiting and other offences. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 22 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-304	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. The minority opinion will now be presented within a timeframe of up to seven minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A minority opinion is obviously because we abstained from voting on this summary amendment, as we will abstain from the bill. Basically, we don't have a problem with what's inside, we have a problem with what's not there. We have said that we have tabled some of the changes to raise awareness that we wanted to prove that once the government decided - and there was no problem with the referral - that it would have been necessary to amend this law primarily for EU harmonisation reasons, then it would have been appropriate to make a more comprehensive amendment to this law. [[20.30]] This is because the legislation governing this framework has now been in force for quite a few years, and there have been technical issues that would have been useful if this amendment had been dealt with now. It is quite obvious that the amendments that we have tabled have gone beyond certain frameworks, since those parts of the previous law were not opened, for which the need for amendment appeared to the profession. But we have considered it precisely in order for the public and Parliament to see that we should have gone further than to make these rapid technical corrections, which is why we have tabled these proposals. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in my view, this must be done in the autumn, that is the clear position of professional organisations. I also indicated this type of proposal at the Legislative Committee meeting. If not, we will obviously try to submit this amendment package through our own system. So I think that this is also a matter in which there may be a state of consensus, but given that the amendments that we would have felt important, especially because of the operation of the mountain community system, have not been adopted, which is why we decided to abstain from voting. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-22-306	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask you that Minister of State Czerván wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] Later, thank you. Then I give the floor to Member István Horváth of the written speakers, Fidesz.
u2015-06-22-307	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly that, during the Commission's debates on the bill before us, we have seen the same attitude, which we wish to cooperate with in support and improvement, from the direction of the majority of our opposition colleagues, as we have already enjoyed in the general debate. It is true that the amendments tabled to the proposal could not be supported by the Committee on Agriculture, but only because, according to the rapporteur's information, they wanted to complement the proposal with detailed rules recommended at the level of the regulation and will be regulated in the regulations currently under preparation. The amendments tabled by the Committees have mostly supplemented the proposal with minor technical and interpretation amendments. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-308	Thank you, Congressman István Horváth. Speaking in advance Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik.
u2015-06-22-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We can also support this proposal, as we have already said in the general debate and in the committee, because forced cutting of wine grape plantations may be necessary in certain cases, and it is good that this regulation creates this easier opportunity. I have also seen with some concern that the amendments made by the National Council of Mountains have not been supported. I understand that most of them will be regulated at regulation level, and in many cases they are justified, and their place is there, but at the same time we have found something that would have had a place in the law itself. But apart from that, we can support it. We have rather a lack of feeling about this legislation and about Hungarian wine production and grapes at all. After all, the concerns of producers and winemakers are coming again that Italian wine will once again be in huge quantities and in poor quality. The effect of last year's 90-day regulation is no longer felt, and it would be good to know from the portfolio what steps are to be taken to protect domestic producers and domestic wines, since the evolution of buying-in prices can already be heard that they are not going well, and there may be serious problems here from the end of summer until the end of the season. We would therefore rather expect this, beyond the law, to make some sort of suggestion, so that we can resolve the fears that have come to us and certainly to the specialist. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-310	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, During the general debate, we said that there are important points in the bill that are particularly good and welcome. In the case of wine-growing crops already mentioned by many, however, for plant protection purposes, or if the plant-growing authority finds that the plant-growing authority poses a risk on the basis of the plant-health condition of the uneducated crop plantation, it may be possible to impose compulsory slaughter, we believe that this would be a very important and forward-looking step. But, for example, the change of planting rights until 31 December 2015 to the planting permit, we believe that it was very appropriate to include it in the law, but I have already indicated in the context of the general debate that we will have some substantive amendments, which we have drawn up not only in consultation with the National Council of Mountains, but also in consultation with other professional and interbranch organisations, on their request. I also said in the general debate that if they can support them because we feel once again that they would regulate important, substantive issues, then we will be able to support the bill. Since this has not happened, although I understand what my fellow Member Horváth has said, that it would be better regulated by regulation, we think that there would have been no problem if we had introduced this into the law by regulating a higher level of legislation, which is why, as you have said, my fellow Member Haughty, we will abstain from voting on the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2015-06-22-312	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr György Czerván, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-06-22-313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your comments and for your support. The amendment to point 7 of the summarised amendment gives the wine authority the discretion to apply the consequences, taking into account that they are covered by Article 48 of the Wine Act. Paragraph 2 (c) contains it accordingly. Point 9 of the summarised amendment complements the bill. The planting permit system, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016, should also be able to maintain the possibility of sanctioning where the plantation plantation plantation plantation installer carries out the installation in a different way from that provided for in the planting permit. Point 16 of the summarised amendment states that, in the context of point 9, the Wine Act 43/B. It is also appropriate to maintain §2 of the planting permit scheme, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. 43/B. § regulates cases where the plantation plantation is planted where the installer holds an installation permit, but does not carry out the installation in accordance with the provisions of the plantation. The other points of the summarised amendment include technical and linguistic specifications. Dear Parliament, The bill contains rules drawn up on the basis of consultation with the National Council of Mountains and all civil society organisations representing winemakers. I request your support in tomorrow's vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-314	Thank you very much, Secretary of State György Czerván. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the debate on certain issues concerning the organisation of the agricultural markets, the Commission's reports on the submission of producers' and interbranch organisations and the summary amendment proposal follows. The submission was made in T/4854. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Agriculture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T4854/3. by serial number T/4854/4. they have been granted a serial number. [[20.40]] The Legislative Committee's proposed amendment is T/4854/6. by serial number and summary report by T/4854/7. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-22-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 18 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed certain issues concerning the organisation of the agricultural markets, T/4854 on producer and interbranch organisations. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, point 18 of the House Rule 42 of the Decision. The Committee rejected me because of the over-extension under Article 4 of the Act. The TAB organised that section in its own amendment. The remaining points of the Legislative Committee's own amendment were adopted by 20 votes in favour with six abstentions. The proposal aims to support producer groups and producer organisations in accordance with the Common Agricultural Policy Directives and in line with Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Where the draft law is adopted, it shall extend its scope to agricultural, fishery and food products and their producers, processors and distributors, in particular producer organisations, associations and interbranch organisations consisting of those engaged in such activities. Following clarification of the conceptual funds, the draft proposal proposes to tighten up the rules on payment deadlines for producers, processors and purchasers. It also lays down rules for contracts concluded for the supply of agricultural crops in accordance with the EU Council Directive in order to protect the Contracting Parties. In accordance with Council Regulation (EU) No 261/2012, specific contract rules for the sale of raw milk are also included in the proposal. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 22 votes in favour with 6 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-316	Thank you, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Horváth, Fidesz.
u2015-06-22-317	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from our fellow Member, Dénes Galambos, T/4854. In line with Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and thus with the evolving directives of the common agricultural policy, the proposal creates a new domestic legal background for important issues of product market regulation. These new rules transpose into the domestic legal order the EU directives with greater attention to supporting interbranch organisations' activities. This direction is welcomed and supported by the government, and in the general and detailed debates, I felt that my opposition fellow Members agree with the objectives of this new bill. Some provisions governing the system of professional advice, which had to be incorporated into the new draft law in order to ensure the coherence of the legal system, were also included in the previous interbranch legislation. This was done in the course of the Commission's discussions. Although there have been some technical difficulties, it can be said that tomorrow's vote will result in a single proposal containing all the important regulatory elements and meeting its expectations. I would ask my fellow Members to support the additional amendments and the bill itself in the final vote in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-318	Thank you, Congressman István Horváth. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-06-22-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not give you much surprise here, either, in the general debate and in the committee meeting, we have expressed our support for the proposal, which is mainly about the transposition of EU directives, which we believe will really contribute to the effective functioning of these directives in Hungary and to the benefit of those involved. I have two small remarks which do not concern the law closely, but if there is a way for Mr Secretary of State to do so, I would be happy to have an answer. One is that in relation to the LEADER competitions - which are now stuck in our small country, that some should be implemented by the end of August, and that they have not even received the money - you have information about this; because if, in the light of the directives that we have taken over in relation to LEADER at the time, only the current ones will be implemented, then this amendment will certainly not make much sense either. It is also not closely linked, but we have been waiting for a long time for a comprehensive cooperative law, which would also take into account, for example, the legislation we are discussing today. When is this expected? This, too, is constantly promised from semester to semester, and many of us are looking forward to having a real, real, up-to-date cooperative law for our country. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-320	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2015-06-22-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been mentioned before me, the bill will largely shift new EU legislation into the domestic legal order. In view of the fact that the previous legal EU legislation has changed significantly with this new regulation, the European Council Regulation, and the change in the structure of the Hungarian law or the references contained therein has no longer enabled the proper application of the law, so the scope and quantity of the necessary changes have justified the submission of this new law, which will essentially replace the current law as a whole. In the context of the general debate, we have also said that we believe that, as it is a matter of EU legislation, this must also be done by Hungarian legislation, but we believe that there is a very important or important amendment that I would like to read precisely. This is said to be the right to process personal data and to request individual identification data from another body of the official statistical service, as well as from a public body and a central administrative body not belonging to the official statistical service, in order to fulfil its statutory tasks and to carry out the related research tasks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In our view and in our view, this provision, this amending point, is expressly against the law, because there is no specific purpose for data processing and the duration of data processing, and we believe that this is a measure, let us say, an intervention in this system that we do not consider acceptable, and we would like to express it with our vote tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-22-322	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State, György Czerván, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-06-22-323	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank my fellow Members for T/4854 on certain issues concerning the organisation of agricultural markets, producer and interbranch organisations. His comments and suggestions were made during the debate on the legislative proposal No. The summary amendment proposal before my fellow Members contains a number of technical and linguistic clarifications, as well as substantive proposals in points 9, 16 and 17. Of the latter, I would like to highlight point 9, on which the Fidesz fraction has asked for a separate vote. In the course of the government consultation with the organisations concerned, we have taken the view that this provision does not fit properly into the system of law and domestic law, and therefore we do not support the adoption of this point. [[20.50]] The reason for the amendment in points 16 and 17 is as follows. CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. CX of 2014 amending Act No. The Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development has been carrying out the tasks related to the issuing of the permit, the management of the register of professional advisors and the monitoring of the training and further training of professional advisors since 1 January 2015. The mandate to establish a ministerial regulation containing detailed rules for the performance of the task is currently the 2012 CXXVIII on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation. It is included in the so-called interbranch law. The original, T/4854. The proposal repeals the interbranch law and, at the same time, the authorisation to establish detailed rules for the operation of the advisory system, but does not provide for consultants, taking into account the change of tasks as from 1 January 2015. It is therefore appropriate to include in the bill the questions requiring legislation at the level of law, as well as the provisions authorising the creation of the necessary ministerial decree, in a separate chapter, similar to the content of the interbranch law. I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/4854 on certain issues concerning the organisation of the agricultural markets, on producer and interbranch organisations. Please support the preliminary amendment tabled to bill No 9, except point 9. And what Mr Zoltán Magyar raised about LEADER and the possible new cooperative law, I think we should not discuss it now, but there will be a chance to discuss them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-324	Thank you, Secretary of State György Czerván. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/4899. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Defence and Police Committee as designated committee on detailed debate T/4899/2. they have been granted a serial number. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, if he wishes to speak. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] No. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz.
u2015-06-22-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The current proposal is XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. It contains a technical amendment to the Act. It is necessary to clarify the text of the bill, which has already been adopted with high support, in order to ensure that it is appropriate in all respects and that the planned salary increase for law enforcement personnel is carried out. The proposal corrects the previously adopted bill in two areas. One provision is that it complements the national leadership of law enforcement bodies with the commander of the Parliamentary Guard; the amendment does not result in any substantive change compared to the current rules. Secondly, it is necessary to clarify in order to ensure that the provisions of the Law on the employment relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies are indisputable. The Ministry of Interior has already said that it is committed to raising the salary of professional staff. By way of derogation from the category with effect from 1 July 2015, the average salary of the professional staff shall be 30 per cent and the next five years. , from 1 January 2016 until 1 January 2019, an annual salary development of 5 per cent shall be carried out. This topic is clarified in the other part of the bill. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-326	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-22-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Imre Vas, a pro-government Member, has already mentioned that, in practice, an amendment to this year's law had to be introduced very quickly here. We must be critical in this regard, because it seems that the government or the author has also realized that the promised salary development does not have a later leg, because the 30 percent is falsely present, but it seems that no resources have been allocated in the budget for the development of salaries for the coming years, which is why we will not support this bill. Although we welcome it, and we think it was very much necessary for the government to finally settle the salaries of law enforcement workers, and we also supported the creation of a new comprehensive service law, there are some criticisms that I have to say here. Instead of encouraging the stock to think on its own and to solve tasks, the bill seeks to create conditions for the implementation of government instructions, in which spirit it further restricts the basic rights of the stock, enhances and renders the control of the stock untied, even the leaders are at the mercy of their superiors. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] As a result, we consider that in the long term there will be a reduction in the professional level of job provision, and therefore we will not be able to support the bill. Thank you. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Give it up!]]
u2015-06-22-328	Welcome, fellow Members. I am asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate before us. [[No signal coming through.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I would like to ask whether Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to comment on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-22-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my exposé in the general debate on the bill before us, I made clear the reasons for the submission of the bill, which Imre Vas referred to in his comment. I would also like to state here that the career model will be introduced from 1 July 2015. A very important part of this is the salary increase, which, as my fellow Member Vas Imre said, represents an average salary increase of 30 per cent from 1 July 2015, an additional increase of 5 per cent from 1 January 2016 and an increase of 5 per cent from 1 January 2017, 2018 and 2019, with an average increase of 50 per cent in the salary of the law enforcement professional staff. As regards budgetary resources, I would like to tell Mr Zsolt Legény that the 2015 source is available and that we will decide on the 2016 source tomorrow in the vote on the 2016 central budget. Forint 121.7 billion is available for this purpose, and it is clear that the further increase will be decided in the budget for the year. So we can say responsibly that the resources are available. We regret that the MSZP, when it was on the government, did not support the salary increase of professional workers and now does not support it in opposition. Let's hope they change their minds someday. I would ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-22-330	The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting, as has already been said here. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I will give the floor to Congressman György Lukács:.2 dimension: As the government wants to see the ambulances and as it is in reality with its title. You have the floor, Congressman. [[21.00]]
u2015-06-22-331	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With my comments after today's agenda, I thought that I would like to talk to you about the ambulances that have already been mentioned twice in the House's walls and the state of rescue. The two dimensions included in the title mean the two different realities that the government wants to see in one dimension and to show themselves about this section, the detail of health care, that is, ambulances and rescues, and the reality in which ambulances live and work every day. We know that there are 7500 rescue workers in Hungary right now, and saving is one of the sectors of the country that does not stop for a moment, and we need their work constantly. And what it stands for is that there are two different dimensions and two different dimensions, and what the government and what the reality say is very well grasped in the cases of the past period, in the shortcomings that have been constantly revealed and constantly revealed. One of the most dramatic and shocking cases was the atrocity at János Hospital, and it was also recorded for photos and videos, when a sirenist ambulance in János Hospital could only get into the institution with urgency and patient, if he himself changed parking tickets at the gate, waited for it to be issued or finished, and then drove the patient in danger to the hospital. On a written question, I asked the State Secretary for this practice, to which the State Secretariat replied that, of course, the error or the operation that I was asking had already been dismissed, because the hospital management, its board of directors, and the ambulances themselves had agreed. But it seems that it would not be necessary to agree, if only a basic minimum priority were to be taken into account by the management of any hospital, that ambulances, rescues, must always be able to approach the health care institution without delay, in order to get the patient there as quickly as possible. So we do not need negotiations, but a humane and logically thought-out attitude in this case. But the other problem, which has been quite a lot, has been reported recently by various newspapers, weekly newspapers, about the situation and working conditions of rescue workers themselves. For example, it is worth quoting one of the weekly papers where a Budapest paramedic gave a report. He wrote: "I work at one of the largest stations in Budapest, and we are covered with bugs. So much so that we couldn't sit down and have sex because they were full of them. We probably moved it from one of the patients. But don't imagine that there were a few bugs climbing the wall. They were hanging in a bunch. 'One of them,' says he. We begged for weeks to clean them up, and the answer was that we would not be able to prove that we had taken them home from here; and that we did not go to sleep, why do we need the bed anyway. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, we could also say that, overall, the National Rescue Service is dedicated to the same workers, who, by the way, should have much more respect, such as 16,000 forints per year to clean their work clothes, even though they are constantly working with patients who are either covered with bleeding wounds or other dirt, injuries or other physical influences, so to speak. But everyone knows what it's like to work with patients, how vulnerable, unlucky people can get dirty, what kind of infection and what kind of disease risks they're facing, and that's how the government feels about it. But we could also say the problem of the rescue stations, which was already here within the walls of the Parliament. On several occasions, we raised the fact that Viktor Orbán had only one missed election promise to carry out rescue station renovations promised in the country. In the campaign he promised, and then we were opposed to the fact that not only the required number of forty-fifties, but even one or two rescue stations and new constructions have barely taken place, and most of these projects are currently at the stage of implementation, that if they are not ready for time, they will have to be replaced by projects, such as municipalities, instead of EU money. It is abundant and is already known almost everywhere on the lists where there are shortcomings. There are, of course, a few lucky places where it could have been built, but with its mass there are all shortcomings. But perhaps the last one that caused a conflict was one of the carvings of the rescue decree, in which the government intended to provide extra resources to the National Rescue Service. They were given the opportunity to provide events. This led to the fact that the cars were on Hungaroring and not under the heat alarm in the city. Behind this, the message to the government is that it doesn't say that anyone who talks about it wants to protect private operators, but wants the government to protect them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Think responsibly and develop a rescue situation in which there is no possibility that cars are not waiting for deployment during a heat alarm, but for sporting events. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-22-332	Member Mr Ander Balázs came forward after the next agenda: the people of Pustak, or some thoughts on the public employment listed by the Minister of the Interior, T/5141. In connection with the servant's law No. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-333	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a bitter experience of my village walks, I have also reported a phenomenon where the otherwise underqualified, community parasites did not take the job in the case of a day of HUF 5000. Basically, if you're a strong man who doesn't work, even if you have a job, don't eat. Here, on our part, we could put an end to the debate on the amendment of the law marked by Sándor Pintér. However, the draft law before this House is as far away from the eco-social model that Jobbik testifies to as much as Mako is from Jerusalem. This proposal goes against the idea of Imre Somogyi, László Németh's garden-Hungary. This proposal humiliatingly treats the poor of rural regions, which have been severely disadvantaged, only as a servant, not as a dignified citizen. During decades the peasantry was turned out of its ancient heritage, first by the collectivization of the communists throughout the Hungarian village, then by a series of compensation-fiancée frauds. Instead of self-employed family farms, which are a token of national ascension, the workers of the socialist settlements were favored by large capitalized factories that eviscerated endlessly. The unrevealed, unrevealed, unnational, unilaterally profit-based ownership policy has provided a wide range of opportunities for industrialised mass-production, non-socially responsible, rural-destructive agricultural farms. The process was described by Ady a century ago in a psychic way, so let me quote from last year's servants. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But there came a stray spawn, / Robbers, lucky ritters / Népe, whose sarj-soren / Today's shandar ministers / They are converging on the Torah of Time, / Real Hungarians. But there are those who still remember, / And if they have to, who do. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The beneficiaries of the established major estate system only make serious billions of land-based subsidies, while the entire village population is struggling without work and can starve to starve, faithfully reflecting the social disaster that, let's say, my narrower Patria, Somogy County, has often developed in the broken peripherals of the Lower Balkans rather than the Lower Balkans, but of Internal Africa. South Somogy's 12 agricultural companies with foreign or domestic backgrounds have received 18 billion HUF support only in recent years. There is a greedy Döbördögi, who is at the head of the Latifundium, which nevertheless employs less than a dozen people on its thousands of hectares. And then the Minister of the Interior would give these demented aliens or the Hungarian oligarchs, which are not better than theirs, with the cheap labour that is sunk into the serfs. The people of the villages that were set up behind bars, transformed into Bantustan, would be led to their lands, so that, with state aid, they would not have to pay normal human wages to their hired workers. Two and a half centuries ago, when the oligarchs of that time dropped the ball and didn't know where the border was, the Queen of Hungary, Mary Theresa, wisely recognized it for the protection of taxable persons: to feed the sheep if she wanted to trim it. It would also be a matter of consideration for today's country leaders, not of turning the rural population into an eviscerator. It is necessary to avoid the fate of one of the best folk writers between the two world wars, István Sinka, in the confessions of the Black Bojtar, the fate of the Hungarian maid, who, with her whole life's straining work, was too old to make more profit for her husband, feeling that she died in wintertime, starving, cold, beaten, and dug a hole in a dung heap of Vermes lordship, because it was at least warm, and then this pile of manure became her eye lid. Hopefully, they will not be pollinated in their ingenuity by the 1898 II on the regulation of the relationship between employers and agricultural workers referred to as the slave law. an article of the law which allowed for the use of force by the authorities when the work is so-called unlawful. [[21.10]] In Hungarian, agro-proletarians entering the strike are entitled to better understanding with arm power, or XLV of 1907 on the regulation of the relationship between the farmer and the economic servant. an article of law prohibiting agricultural servants from moving during the year and allowing minor servants to be physically disciplined. Let's hope they don't come up with the idea of picking nine, roboting, free work, and extending jus primae noctis, so the first night's right to friendly oligarchs. Ceterum censeo, the overweight of the great estates, forcing the rural population into a line of servants is social mortality itself. This is not the Hungarian way, but the South American way! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-334	MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for the last speech after the agenda:. Despite earlier promises, the Hungarian cavalry sector is forced to suffer further blows? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-22-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues from Jobbikos, It's not the first time I've spoken about the interests of the horse industry. It doesn't matter whether we talk about breeding, sport, hobbies, tourism or racing, perhaps about forgotten recreation and traditionalism, they have in common the fact that they didn't receive any help despite previous government promises. And here we are not primarily thinking about financial assistance, and we would also need it, because the Kincsem National Horse Programme has been adopted at government level, but then nothing has been achieved in practice, but often the lack of attention and the reduction of minor bureaucratic legislation could also help the situation in these sectors. However, even though I have raised these problems week after week, in the form of a written question or even a speech, we have not experienced any meaningful answers. And the small problem is that we, the right-wing Members, couldn't experience it, the bigger problem is that the people involved in the sector, the workers in it, didn't. For example, there is the case of Bábolna. This topic has come before the House many times. It is a typical example of how, after a period of lying to the regime change, former state actors looted the remaining state assets, how they distributed them to themselves, of course, with effective political help. And it doesn't matter if we're talking about socialist or fidesz governments in this respect, they're both in on Bábolna's case. The same thing that would please the cavalry society if progress was made, let us say, on the development of facilities, as happened in Bábolna with regard to the remaining Ménes estates. However, there is also some wormwood mixed with joy when we ask whether the cost of the investment is proportional to the value of the use we gain. The most important question is who will benefit from this. The reconstruction of the former building, presumably built as a prayer house, which was previously used as a foal class of the Abbey of Pannonhalma, was estimated by experts to cost at least 350 million forints. But his main goal, his essence, was not achieved, for the 11 - meter inner width does not allow horses to travel in all three modes. The colony is located 7 km from the inhabited settlement, the riding school, so, to say the least, this luxury investment is pointless. And let's not talk about the state of the road there. I had the ability to experience it myself. It's practically impenetrable. We think it would be worth commenting to the Ministry, and the profession has asked this question several times, whether this investment was worth it, and why the contractor was not selected in public procurement. It must be a coincidence that the executive director's house in Banai was renovated during the same period by the same contractor; it must be quite malicious rumours and rumours that have spread on this matter. In the last three years, however, there have been hundreds of millions of investments in Bábolna, and it would be good to finally see the numbers, so that we can compare them with reality and what was built with that kind of money. Because it is suspected that the final, usable value of the investment has been significantly reduced compared to the amount invested in this. I am aware that in 2014, Ménes estates received an operating grant of 500 million from the Ministry of Agriculture. We would like to know how they will account for this support if a body of the European Union asks whether it is a 100% state-owned company. How to receive such State aid, and whether it is possible to suspect any duplication or abuse. Especially in view of the fact that Pábolna uses 2,500 hectares of land and then receives the area payment. We would also like to know how there is still no valid lease agreement for the Bábolna National Ménes estates. We also believe that this is a very interesting question, which I have not yet received an answer to in writing. It also concerns the riders, how it is possible to lead our country's last state-run herd by a man who has completed eight primary schools without language skills. We are well aware that it is well equipped with political relations, of course, but we believe that the leader of such, indeed, the last remaining domestic stud should have a slightly more serious preparation and professional background. Other than being a fidesz kisser. I have put the questions in writing for a long time, and I hope there will be a way to answer them in substance. Unfortunately, the timeframe now does not allow that. In any case, it is also clear from this particular case that, despite earlier promises, nothing has happened with regard to the development of the riding sector, despite the fact that the actors in the sector were indeed confident in the Fidesz government, as there were plenty of promises before the elections. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-22-336	Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will reconvene at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:16 p.m.]]
