u2015-03-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform this House that Lajos Molnár died on 24 March in the 69th year of his life. Lajos Molnár was an ear-nose-burning specialist and then director general of several hospitals. In 2006 he obtained a mandate from the national list of SZDSZ, he was a Member of Parliament in one cycle. From 2006 to 2007 he was Minister of Health, from 2007 to 2010 he was a member of the Defence Committee. I would ask my fellow Members to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay a silent tribute to the memory of the deceased congressman.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, János Volner, member of Jobbik's group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How long will the collusion of the Quaestor coalition continue in the bank and broker scandals? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2015-03-30-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As Chairman of the Committee on Enterprise Development, I invited Mr György Matolcsy and Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó to the meeting today. We would have had particularly important questions about the current broker scandal, where the country's public opinion can certainly see one thing: in this Quaestor coalition, which was woven between the socialists and the Fidesz, several politicians are up to their necks. It's important to see how things turned out. During the period of socialist governments, the fraudulent brokerage house received a state guarantee of HUF 16.9 billion. Did the Fidesz government charge Quaestor or even the socialists for this uncovered guarantee? In 2010, the Orbán government covered this matter up, there was no criminal proceedings in this case, no consequences of this guarantee and no verification of Quaestor in 2010. It was interesting that when four and a half years had passed since the Orbán government took office, only one of the two dozen independent brokerage companies had not been checked. They gave people different cheese wrappers to take their money so they could rob them of it. The Orbán government also found out that they traded taxpayers' money, because the money the government gave Quaestor was free to roll in open capital market operations. Here was the lying explanation as to why the Orbán government was entrusting taxpayers' money to a trading company: János Lázár said that it was because the account management costs were low there. Dear Fidesz Members, I'm asking you not to think Hungarian people are so stupid. Why don't you put the money in a state bank? Why are they giving it to the crooked brokerage, the head of a brokerage who has had good relations with the socialists and with you? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Obviously, there's a connection here, which is why there hasn't been any accountability in this case. It is also visible, and there was a public suspicion that some had abused inside information. You can see that billions of people were fleeing the Quaestor, while the small people, the small investors, lost their money, and many Hungarians became runaways while the government saved their money from the Quaestor. Jobbik demands: we get to know the names of Hungarian individuals and their related businesses who took out cash and securities from Quaestor during the last period. This afternoon, all MPs are told by the Jobbik faction whether he or one of his family members or any of their economic interests took money out of the Quaestor during the last period, whether or not he or she has extricated his or her assets. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, to this day, the Jobbik faction is the only one that has made public the declaration of assets of Members' family members. In this way, we don't run money by family names, just like other people do at the moment, hiding what happened in this Quaestor case. What can we see now? There is a scandal; the government promises accountability. During every banking and brokerage scandal, the same circus took place. Think about it: The Key Price scandal, the Key Price case has been going on since 2003, and it hasn't been accounted for since. The socialists didn't account for the cheating broker either. After four and a half years of Fidesz government, is it still not possible to charge a crooked broker and have a verdict? There's no way to explain that, ladies and gentlemen. [[13.10]] There is always the same scenario: under the Fidesz or the MSZP, people's money is stolen, money will never be found, always a member of the Moonyard connected to politicians takes the money. There's never a settlement in any of these cases. Twenty-four amendments were tabled to the Financial Supervision Act, all voted out. For example, when we proposed a drastic increase in consumer protection fines, the entire Fidesz fraction, including János Lázár, Antal Rogán, Attila Mesterházy, József Tobias, Zoltán Gőgös and the entire MSZP fraction, voted against. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame! Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Intercom from the benches of MSZP: Don't get personal!]] You always play the circus here, but in the background, when it comes to voting, you always vote against similar motions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-2	I give the opportunity to answer Secretary of State L. Simon.
u2015-03-30-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I must reject as strongly as possible the fact that there would be any coalition between the socialists and the governing party alliance. Speaking of the Quaestor coalition here in this House is at least tasteless, but let us not forget a few things, honourable Member, let us look at the facts, along the lines of what you have mentioned here in your speech before the agenda. Based on the decision of János Fekete, the Hungarian Development Bank granted a loan of HUF 17 billion to the Quaestor Group of companies during the Socialist Government. That is the fact, honourable Member. This loan agreement has nothing to do with Fidesz or the current government. After the 2010 election, when certain aspects of the treaty became apparent to us, we changed that, so we naturally took into account the interests of taxpayers. I must strongly refuse, honourable Member, that the government would have traded with the money of citizens and the state. [[It makes your hair stand on fire, doesn't it?!]] The truth is, honourable Member, that the Hungarian National Trading House has deposited bonds at Quaestor, and this is not the same as the exchange of funds. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] These bonds, which have been deposited by the Hungarian National Trading House, are, of course, safe to know today as well. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Where is it?]] I must also reject, honourable Member, that there would have been inside information for the government and that billions of dollars would have been saved by the government and the government, while tax-paying citizens were in a difficult situation. The government acted responsibly, Prime Minister said in his radio statement last Friday that he had instructed the government members [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] after the scandal of the Buda-Cash Broker house, that if there is any source, money, possibly a bond with the Hungarian state bodies, which are managed by trading houses operating independently of the Hungarian state, we will be able to keep them safe. This was a foresight, basically a thoughtful and thoughtful, responsible instruction from the Prime Minister, which led the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to act on time, and there is no threat to the state or public money of Hungarian taxpayers. Of course, many people are in a difficult situation because of the Quaestor scandal, the Hungarian government is doing everything possible in order to get their money. The governing faction association has just today initiated a four-fifth amendment to adopt a law in the House tomorrow that allows the owners, even the owners' family members, relatives and the responsible leaders to take responsibility for their personal wealth. Honourable Congressman, Nor is it true that there will never be any accountability here, and that those who do the damage can get away with it, the Hungarian media was loud at the end of the week because Csaba Tarsoly was arrested. The current coalition of governments and, of course, the authorities are doing their best to eradicate decades of financial corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you not to come forward by submitting 24 amendments to review the financial supervision system, because these were amendments which were impossible. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] We ask you to stand with us, to support today's four-fifth vote, and we ask you to be here tomorrow at the final vote and to vote on the law that will give you the opportunity to answer to your private assets and the private wealth of your relatives who have caused such damage to others. We know very well that in recent years we have always been on our own when we wanted to reform the financial supervision system, but thanks to God, we have also been able to resolve the integration of the National Bank and the PSF over the past four years. The result of this integration is that, thanks to the comprehensive controls, Buda-Cash also found out what the truth is. So I have to say, the government is on the side of those who want to invest their money fairly, and we will act with every effective means against those who, by the way, want to ski either public or private. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-4	Mr Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[13.20]]
u2015-03-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I, Viktor Orbán, swear that I will be faithful to my country, the Republic of Hungary and its people, and I will keep and keep the constitution with the rest of the laws. Orbán swore with these words as Prime Minister of Hungary, so the Prime Minister swore that he would keep the laws himself and have them kept by others. So when the Prime Minister of Hungary received Csaba Tarsoly's letter, there was only one thing he could have done: press charges. He's going to press charges and turn to the MNB's supervisory board and the prosecution's office. This is the measure the Prime Minister should have taken. Instead, what did he do? He called his own man, called Michael Varga. The Prime Minister's responsibility is very clear. He was supposed to go to the authorities, but since he didn't do that, it's undisputed that Fidesz is responsible for every penny of the Quaestor victims that they lost. From now on, whatever proposal you're putting on the table, they can't make up for the failure your prime minister did. Csaba Tarsoly asked the government for help, but the LMP has families, people who see the money gone that was saved as an emergency reserve. With this money, these people wanted to build a home; they saved it for their children, their grandchildren. There's no question about it. It's an increasingly embarrassing explanation on your part, but this money has been practically traded, and these people have been robbed by you in the end. How could they do this to these people? I'm talking about a nearly 90-year-old woman who left the results of a life's work to the brokerage company, and now she could lose everything she had. He didn't save it for you, he didn't want to buy Rolex watches, he wanted to start his grandchildren in life. A responsible opposition party in such a situation can do two things, and the May Other in Politics can do both. On the one hand, we demand systemic changes and, on the other hand, we put concrete proposals on the table that will result in small investors getting every penny of our money back. Because our goal is for these people to be at their money, our goal is to have those responsible fully accounted for, and we stand by the system to change here and now so that no one can profit at the expense of the Hungarian people. We have placed on the table the solution not only for the assets of the company's senior officials to be closed, but also for all the officials who, despite their better knowledge, have not taken the necessary measures. And here I am thinking of Viktor Orbán, who, in violation of his own oath as Prime Minister, did not turn to the authorities. [[Noise.]] But let's keep going. There are the leaders of the Quaestor, but there are also the central bank officials, as well as the muddy government members who have not taken the necessary measures. Don't take this the wrong way, I don't mean that you two are speaking to each other, calling each other on the phone and texting each other, but I mean that the small investors can stay with their money. And I don't mean getting back money from brokerage companies that's been illegally parked and traded. Don't be proud of that, Mr. Secretary. No one expected you to panic, but I did expect that, in the knowledge we call inside information, you would turn to the authorities, you, the Prime Minister, and everyone who knew about it, but you didn't. To make it perfectly clear to everyone, what happened here was that you had sabotaged the opportunity to prevent injury. From now on, however, you must ensure that every one of the Quaestor victims is on his payroll. And don't tell me you don't have any money. There's the National Bank, he's got money, we've seen how they bought luxury palaces. Please stop recapitalisation of the offshore knights and give this money to the government-damaged who have been cheated on foreign exchange loans or who have become involved in the Quaestor scandal. Look, we all know the Quaestor scandal isn't the first scandal. Possibly Other Politics also demands a committee of inquiry that will start the investigation in 97, because what rotted in today's system was rotten in the previous system. A few minutes ago on the House Committee, you've already proven how you don't want to do anything. We put the proposal on the table, but you sabotaged the central bank's ability to have a hard-core supervisory board capable of providing such capital market financial supervision. You sabotaged this a few minutes ago. One thing is certain: in 2010, when Viktor Orbán promised to expel the offshore knights from the area of the government, he was wrong. And now we see what he's done with it. You have broken all your oaths. Not only didn't these groups get distracted, but they even brought in public money to grow. On the other hand, if you had accepted LMP's proposals in the previous term, we wouldn't be standing here, because then offshore knights wouldn't be lurking with taxpayers' and small investors' money. Because as long as speculators are able to extract money in opaque nets, there will be no honor or justice in this country, because you have defended fraud, theft and the destruction of people by government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We won't settle for less than every single small investor getting their money and changing the system. We have put all the necessary suggestions on the table for this.
u2015-03-30-6	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2015-03-30-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I find it very regrettable that May Other Politics is a opposition party that, while presenting itself as a leader in democracy in parliament and in public opinion, is now in the process of trying to confiscate the assets of its political opponents on a legal level, it is on the ground that it wants to block the assets of the Prime Minister who prevented public money from being stolen. For Viktor Orbán did not break his oath, but did according to his oath. He took his oath to defend public money and to convey to ministers the expectation that, if there is such a case, it would be necessary to examine whether it was done properly and, on the other hand, whether these funds should be placed in a safe place, preferably in the Treasury. So it's not about the Prime Minister taking action against his oath, it's about the spirit of it. Today, the second opposition party has spoken, and I find it very regrettable that in both speeches we have heard very little about what is really happening to people, what is happening to the victims. It's easy, of course, to yell at the ether to pay everyone for everything. On the basis of such a principle, in all cases where damage is caused somewhere, someone is harmed, you can run to the government, to the state, to pay for it. However, existing laws, EU directives, must be taken into account. The government is on this path. The government is on the way to find out how this happened, who committed it, and where the money went. This is obviously done by the investigative bodies, primarily the police and the prosecution. I think that no one can say that the investigative bodies have not done their job in this particular matter, because today there are prior arrests for all three brokerage companies and, in fact, the group of perpetrators has been established. It is also very important that the government also thinks about preventing such cases. That is why it is important that certain laws on financial matters will soon be amended before Parliament, which will rule out socialist practice of having to control such companies every five years or not at all, because let us not forget that there was no such legislation between 2004 and 2009. I think that the government is right to think when it explores who committed, how, how much damage is worth, and is thinking about stopping such cases by law modification, tightening up, ordering, and this financial scandal, corruption, which started more than ten years ago, will be closed once and for all. But it is also very important for the government that the compensation actually takes place. It should happen, as the OBA has already done in the case of the four failed DRB banks, where 90% of the people were compensated in essence. It's a completely different case when people put money in brokerage companies, and other laws apply. The government and the pro-government representatives have a firm view that as many people as possible should be compensated for Quaestor; the funds of the small investor circle must be reimbursed. Here, however, the total return amount is around HUF 6 million. I think it is wrong for the opposition to make political accusations, political accountability, but rather to look at what is happening on the government side and to support the proposals put forward by the Members of Parliament, the Fidesz Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Government to the Parliament. If they will support the adoption of these by Parliament as quickly as possible, we will not have to talk about such things here next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2015-03-30-8	The leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach, has spoken before the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-03-30-9	Mr President, Dear House, There was a five-party meeting this morning, and there was the hope that this Parliament would be able to function normally, listening to each other, respecting their views, and finally working with a common agreement. It felt good, but if we look at the Hungarian public life and look at the political culture, unfortunately this is not general, but it is much worse. I didn't tell you all this to make me cry, but to find a solution. It is necessary that the conduct of the parties and their lunar yards be determined by two things: respect for the national interest, the common national interest and the dignity of the other person. On the other hand, we see that the culture of hatred has flourished, the subpar style has become accepted, lies and unfounded accusations are infecting public life, so political culture is at a low point. There are endless possibilities in man. He's got a better self, and he's got a worse self, and he's got a better self. I think that if he enforces his better self, then he can do great things; there are many beautiful works in the world; but if he lets go of the worse, then we can only see from the news what comes out of him and hate feeds on it. Hate does not require cause, because hate is common for no reason, it simply exists and works, and we find that on the stage of politics, in the media, in protests, this kind of hatred appears on the Internet. It destroys not only the individual, but also public life. Then the other question is the subpar style - it seems that the rudeness has become chic. This is where political tabloids and the free-mouthed nasty ones of the Internet are at the forefront, and there is only foam on the cake the obsceneness of the big entrepreneur and the photography kindness of the European socialist representative. But let's look at the lie or the slide. When a person attacks with this device, he does not care about what a person says, but about how to twist his words, how to make a negative message out of it, and he pushes it to the point of nosebleeds. And finally, it's a tool of baseless suspicions that a lot of people are using. The people who use this device don't care about their honor, they want to discredit you. The frame-up happens even if it turns out the charge is unfounded. And to simplify the question, of course, what is the solution? It is that everyone brings out their better self, and that the goal should be the common national interest, the good of the people and the compensation of public life. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-10	Once again, the floor is for Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-03-30-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech. Unfortunately, on behalf of the government, I cannot disprove what you have said, you are deeply right. It is each of you's shared responsibility to do something about it. Indeed, there are two things that should determine our operation, the functioning of the political forces: one, as you said, is the representation of national interest and the other, the respect of the dignity of the other. Remember, fellow Members, when the Szekler march moved the Hungarian public, the Hungarian public, it seemed for a moment that the political parties were finally putting aside their daily political differences, and there was a case that we could all join. We have found the common national minimum that is important for all of us in the Carpathian Basin, namely: strengthening the Hungarian nation's solidarity, strengthening Hungarian culture, the integrity of Hungarian language and Hungarian history, all that we together consider important for Hungarians in this Carpathian Basin region. Let us now ignore the fact that there was, of course, only one politician and the power behind him, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that he was not involved in this, because he does not care about marching Székely, but thanks to God, socialists, ensembles, Jobbikos, KDNPs and Fideszes, both in reality and in spirit, joined our Transylvanian brothers and sisters. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We were there!]] The LMPs, too, I'm sorry, we joined forces with our brothers in Transylvania, and we felt that their consciousness of identity, their minority rights and their belonging to the nation was important. At the time, I thought, and many of us from the governing parties thought that, well, that could be something, we would get to what the Member said, that we would find the national minimum, that we would recognise the common national interest, and that we would be able to represent it together. However, the debates of the last year have shown in Parliament that this is not the case, that the governing side brings up every day matters and issues that affect the whole of the national community, that is not important for the opposition, that it is trying to create more and more scandals, that it is trying to draw up matters that serve the sharing, that serve the twitching, that serve peace. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] It seems today that what is bad for people is good for the opposition. It seems - we have just listened to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél's speech - that the good thing for them is that something happens day by day; if something happens that causes people harm, people's living conditions are difficult, because it can be pointed out, and everything can be blamed on Fidesz, everything can be blamed on the KDNP, everything can be blamed on the government, the government will be blamed for everything; this is what they want to prove. You do not see, my fellow Members on the opposition side, the forest from the tree, not the collective interest [[Dr. András Schiffer: In cooperation? Not in that one.]] I repeat, I repeat: it seems that what is bad for people is good for the opposition because of this they are making short-term political capital for themselves. [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] But in the spirit of what the congressman has said, we are still open to cooperation, we are happy to let go of the past. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We can see that.]] We are happy to give friendly hands to the opposition, we call them partners for today's four-fifth vote and for tomorrow's final vote. Stand by us. Support the government and the government coalition so that we can serve the interests of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian nation together! Support him... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Support the Hungarian government's national unification programme, which has been clearly felt since 2010, from here and beyond the border. And one more thing: the congressman is right that the style is getting worse. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Right?]] It's getting worse, we've got something to fix. I urge ourselves, as well as my fellow pro-government Members, to set an example, to tolerate with dignity that the opposition will yell at us. Unfortunately, television broadcasts don't tell us that when we respond to a shout-out, [[Zoltán Lukács: There is no television broadcast!]] then what are we really reacting to, because on television, you don't hear opposition representatives sometimes inexorable to yell at [[Dr. Attila Harangozó Tamás: So you have eliminated it!]] - Congressman Luke, isn't it? Yes, yes, television viewers do not know how the representative speaking in horseshoes or in pro-government lines reacts. Let's put that behind us. We'll give you a friendly hand. We are asking you, together with us, to improve style, improve parliamentary morale. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Now listen.]]
u2015-03-30-12	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for finally achieving a noise level that we should have ensured from the beginning. Let me only respond to the Secretary of State's comment that, unfortunately, according to the records, our opposition fellow Members are six times as often guilty of disorderly conduct as the pro-government. If I may ask, consider all that the Secretary of State has said, and in particular keep an eye on the remaining minutes, quietly, both the speaker before the agenda and the member of the Government who responds to it. Here you go. The word belongs to Congressman Zoltán Lukács, who became Fidesz luxury villas with the use of public money at Quaestor? Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr We're looking forward to it. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2015-03-30-13	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ever since the Fidesz Ponzi scheme began to collapse and fall on the Fidesz and the government, they've been desperating to settle such a lie-cute that it's thinning out its mate. First of all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took his money out of Quaestor because they were advised by experts, and no one told them that, and they knew on their own that they should get it out of there. Then it was also said that Csaba Tarsoly did not send any letters to Viktor Orbán, he may not even be able to write, and then what happened was that Viktor Orbán went to Sopron and confessed because he said that there was no experts involved, that he was the one who ordered the State Department to take out this HUF 4 billion. Then it turned out that Csaba Tarsoly had written him a letter by sending him this letter through the Secretary of State. Ladies and Gentlemen, Another question is how common it is for a failed business to send a letter to the Prime Minister through the Foreign Minister. We do not know whether this has always been the custom for Mr Tarsoly to send letters to the Prime Minister through Mr Szijjártó, so he was the postman to Mr Tarsoly. Now all we have to do is find out if he was a regular mailman or a cash mailman, because this could be an extremely important question, that he just brought and took letters or brought or brought money. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Why? Do you have one?]] In addition, the Prime Minister's admission included saying that these funds were in the wrong place and that these placements were risky, and that is why he said that they should be removed. The only question now arises is how these public funds could have been put in a risky and bad place. It's also a question of why these money went to Quaestor. And the next question is, if he actually told me at the government meeting on 25 February that, by the way, the wallets and the companies behind the wallets who have money in different brokerage companies should be taken out, then from 25 to 9:00, what did the foreign affairs portfolio do anyway? What else did Mr. Szijjártó have to deal with before he got there from 25 to 9 when the State Department took out people's money? 'Cause what we know is that last week, a lot of small investors indicated that they wanted to take out their money. They were supposed to give them their money on Monday, but on the morning of the 9th, the State Department announced it, and in the evening they received their 4 billion forints in cash, despite the fact that the money was supposedly not in cash, but in government bonds. And now they're very proud of the fact that Mr. Tarsoly and some of his associates finally got arrested in advance, while no one moved his earstick for 17 days, took what he wanted out of the company for 17 days, talked to people he wanted, disposed of evidence he wanted, and saved his fortune the way he wanted. And now they're very proud to say that after 17 days, they're pretending to do something. I'm telling you, it's already been published in the press that practically Mr. Tarsoly has nothing, he doesn't have any assets, so there's nothing to keep busy. It's a very interesting story, and it's bound to come out in 17 days what happened in these companies and how they saved the assets. So, I have to say, they've let people down, the authorities have let people down, but the biggest problem is that their own prime minister has let people down. He knew there was going to be trouble, he knew the system was going to collapse, he knew there were tens of thousands of small investors in there, but he wasn't paying attention to that, he was just trying to save their own money. Another question is which wallets, other than the State Department, saved their money, and the main question is, besides these public funds, which fidesz potenteds were, to whom they told, that they should go quickly and withdraw the money. Obviously, this has to come out. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think you need to make a statement. About a week and a half ago, we made the observation that everyone who is sitting here in this House and in the government had or had no involvement in this. The Hungarian Socialist Party has signed statements here. After my speech, all the faction leaders will receive this by name, all the Members who do and sign it will take responsibility for the signature of those who will not dare to sign it, obviously because they have some involvement in this matter. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: I would like to hear a different statement. Who, for example, is prosecuted?]] By the way, the Hungarian Socialist Party would like to ask and today will ask for the letter that Csaba Tarsoly wrote to Viktor Orbán, his business partner, and he will ask for the minutes and recordings made at the 25 February government meeting, because we have no confidence that the Prime Minister who betrayed his constituents is telling the truth now. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-14	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente.
u2015-03-30-15	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, His words show that some people still do not understand exactly what has happened, even though it is not so complicated, I will try to explain it again, although we have tried to do so many times. A few minutes ago, it was Deputy Minister L. Simon... [[Noise.]]
u2015-03-30-16	Quiet, please.
u2015-03-30-17	...who summarized the substance of this case. Honourable Congressman, You are mistaken, the Secretary of State has not received a letter from Csaba Tarsoly on this matter. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Oops!]] - let's start with this. Item number two: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not made any public money in the Quaestor, and I would like to explain the details of this. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On February 25th, it was decided that the state assets placed at the brokerage companies in all the forms placed in these companies [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How did it get there?]] It must be rescued, rescued, because there have been processes in the money market that justify this. The formal formal decision was taken later, partly due to the fact that both the management of the trading house and the secretary of state supervising the trading house were abroad, so it was obviously impossible to take action on this matter from abroad, to be exact from Japan. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP: Why?]] So, in the first days of March, it was decided, on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade would ask Quaestor for the sovereign debt which was at Quaestor. I would like to reassure you that no forints of state wealth have been lost, and we have received back everything that was at Quaestor, honourable Member. All the opposite statements, all the efforts to make reality go away, that's a lie. Honourable Congressman, Morally, it's fine because it's public property. If we had let this public fortune stay with the Quaestor, and God knows what fate it will be, what would they say to us today? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You left the people at the trench!]] So we rescued the public property, and we didn't get away from thousands of small investors who went bankrupt. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: From whom?]] 'Cause it's sovereign debt, so if you look at the case a little bit more and you know something about it, you'd know it was sovereign debt. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why did you get money back?]] Another question, honourable Member, is that we have actually received these sovereign debt back in cash, which certainly raises questions. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Questions raised!]] But in the least not on the part of the Ministry, but on the basis of reasonable suspicion that Quaestor's abuse has occurred, and we are looking at the situation in this case. If the situation so requires, the necessary legal procedures will be launched, and the necessary reports will, of course, be made, which is another aspect to be clarified. Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, justice is independent, so in the work of the judicial authorities, when certain decisions are taken, the government has no say, and that is right. Honourable Congressman, My proposal is with all due respect not to worry about the state's assets, because the state's wealth, the public property is in order, it's in the right place, it's in the right place. Worry about the wealth of thousands of small investors who have been ruined in this broker scandal. [[Zoltán Lukács: I said!]] Thanks to Quaestor's shady business. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Aren't you ashamed?!]] Honourable Congressman, Any attempt to distract attention from the point of view, so the damage to small investors, is puffing, glancing, and not trying to get to the point. Honourable Congressman, I would like to emphasise once again that, both morally and from the point of view of the common good, and if you look at it, everything was in the best legal order. No catch can be found on this case with regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I suggest that they represent the cause of the damaged small investors, put the cause of the damaged small investors on their flag. [[Zoltán Lukács: Are you suggesting this to us?]] Worry about them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-18	Before the agenda, the leader of the Fidesz Group, Mr Antal Rogán, asked for a speech on our common affairs. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the genre of the pre-meeting comment is, as we know, an informal genre where several things can be discussed at the same time, therefore, given that the leading politicians of the German CSU and the CDU are negotiating in Parliament today, first allow me to express my sincere condolences through them to each of the victims of the Germanwings disaster. [[13.50]] I think that in Europe, where air transport can affect citizens of any country at any time, such a disaster must be something where we must not only express our condolences, but we must also think about the measures that can be taken together to ensure the safety of air transport throughout Europe. As this case was one of the cases that set the press's interest in Hungary last week, of course, the other case - now not only a week, but almost a month ago in the press - is the case of broker scandals, because I see that today our opposition fellow Members would like to talk about a brokerage company. This, I think, for those of you who have appointed officials from Buda-Cash to the Bajnai government, sounds particularly awkward, but, my fellow Members, there has been a series of broker scandals here in the last month, and I would like to stress that it has turned out because there is finally an effective supervision that has found this out. During socialist governments, the broker scandals took place long ago, the frauds took place long ago, and yet they failed to shed any light. I would like to say with all due respect here, I think that the contribution of the LMP before today's agenda was only said by Mrs Bernadett Szél, because - although it is not my place and I do not like to bring up family relations in this House, but if I remember correctly - the Deputy Director General of PSZTF was called Péter Schiffer until December 2009, and then these certain frauds took place a long time ago, when, by the way, financial supervision would have been a way and opportunity to explore them even during the Socialist Government. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, let us perhaps talk about the fact that, thanks to effective measures in the case of broker scandals, Buda-Cash has already been compensated for more than 97% of the 110,000 victims of this case by nearly 90,000 people who were involved through the DRB banking group. [[György Szilágyi: This is how you do it at Quaestor!]] For all the other victims of Buda-Cash, the Investor Protection Fund launched the payment in the case of amounts below HUF 6 million, so the compensation is already under way in the context of small investors. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, I would like to stress once again here in the Parliament that the Fidesz parliamentary group is of the opinion that since Quaestor is also a broker scandal, the Investor Protection Fund is equally responsible there, so the Fidesz parliamentary group expects that the Investor Protection Fund should compensate every small investor in the Quaestor Broker case below HUF 6 million in the same way as it did in the case of Buda-Cash and other brokerage companies. Of course, we also expect responsibility from the financial sector. Given that this is 22,000 out of 32,000 people, it follows, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about nearly 10,000 people for whom - because they have left more than 6 million forints in the Quaestor - they already have civil compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we have submitted to Parliament a law which provides for the closure of assets that may form the basis for claims settlement on the civilian route, from which all other victims can be paid in a significant proportion. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Anyone else pay the price of the crime?]] Ladies and gentlemen, We will propose a further tightening of this law in Parliament today, because we will put forward an amendment that makes it clear that any transaction involving the assets that may be closed in one year before the criminal proceedings or the criminal proceedings start can also be subject to investigation and, mutatis mutandis, to close. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to expect your support for this, because I believe that these are the measures through which investors can actually be compensated. We are interested in compensation for the working people, which is why we are launching any program that is able to completely compensate depositors below HUF 6 million. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me add: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This couldn't have been done at Buda-Cash if we hadn't passed the bank resolution law last year, which, of course, you didn't support. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-20	On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2015-03-30-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, It is indeed very thoughtful what happened in the brokerage scandal, but I am now taking a slightly different view of what was expected of the Fidesz government after 2010 after the eight-year socialist government. [[Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the MSZP.]] What was immediately revealed, and what had to be done immediately, was the problem of currency lenders. The socialists encouraged, gave, brought people into it, millions of people, many families; the Fidesz left to settle this. But I could also say that in terms of finances, the budget deficit is running out. Who's left to face it and settle it? It was left to the Fidesz government, and in 2013 the government brought the country out of the excessive deficit procedure. But I could continue with the high unemployment, low employment, which I managed to change in four years; or I could continue with the loss of public debt, it had to be stopped and then reduced; and unfortunately, the same hidden bomb for the Fidesz administration was also the broker scandal, the broker scandal, which began 10-12 years ago, even 17 years ago. [[Noise.]] This case, this scandal, this trouble could have been prevented if socialist governments had listened. They didn't pay attention, in fact, they encouraged him. They encouraged brokers to commit these acts without any consequences. It is very typical of the Socialist Party's attitude, since now only in the Quaestor case demands why it was not done immediately, let's say, production; in the Buda-Cash case it has been 8-9 days, and now the MSZP does not demand why it has not happened. I think it must have happened to these people, who have committed this series of crimes, that the time has come to face up to their own actions, and that has also happened under the administration of Fidesz. Obviously, these things are happening for a reason, because if the financial audit organization had done their job badly, it wouldn't have turned out today, but who knows how long these people would have been able to continue their business. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: How could it not be found out? They stole 150 billion forints!]] The first and most important decision was therefore the merger of the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions with the Hungarian National Bank, and one of the professional consequences of this is that these frauds have finally come to light. However, this scandal gives new jobs and tasks, thinking and responsibility to the pro-government representatives, but also to the whole Parliament, because we have to create laws in which, on the one hand, a real account is made, it happens that people who have committed or participated in these lawlessness should also answer to their own assets, and not only if they are suspected in criminal proceedings, but also immediately at the beginning of the proceedings. I believe that, if Parliament adopts it, a category of criminal law will be included in the law, which will be a serious warning in the future for brokers who think like those who have done these acts and are already under pre-trial arrest. But it is very important to pay compensation within the framework of the settlement. In terms of compensation, the government is looking for the best solution for both municipalities and private people, of course within the legal and European Union opportunities. What is very important is now, after which, whether the Parliament can accept in exceptional proceedings the hearing of the submitted bill, because if this is accepted by a large majority of the Parliament, the message is that the Hungarian Parliament wishes to bring order together and does not leave the Fidesz, the Fidesz government, alone in this matter. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You saved yourselves in a sharp position! You left them alone!]] We're curious to hear from your vote to see if they're gonna help us sort things out in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2015-03-30-22	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-03-30-23	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following members applied for the speech before the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz. On Tuesday, György László Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik. On Wednesday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Márta Demeter, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2015-03-30-24	Dear Parliament, Before the meeting, the House Committee proposed a derogation from two house rules at the initiative of the Fidesz fraction. The LMP fraction is T/4009. The Commission proposed to derogate from house rules. In the absence of a consensus, I am not proposing this. The House Committee, in derogation from the first house rule, initiates the Parliament's T/4029 on the security of property for the compensation of victims of broker scandals. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the text of the departure from the house rules.
u2015-03-30-25	The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure. The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 65. According to its powers under § (1) of the Act, it proposes the following to the Parliament. T/4029 on the security of property for the compensation of victims of broker scandals In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the legislative proposal No. 13, it should be possible for its representatives to submit an amendment by 15.00 on Monday 30 March 2015. The detailed discussion of the bill will be conducted by the Legislative Committee in the House Rule 44. § (1) and (3) (a) to (f) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure. § ( 1) to (3) and by the fact that the House Rules of Decision 45. The amendments pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 shall be submitted in the summary amendment proposal. If the intention to submit an over-extensive amendment or to support or maintain such an amendment is expressed, it shall submit it separately from and at the same time as the summarised amendment. The fact that the detailed debate is closed and the resolution rules 44. It shall provide information on its findings within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article. The author shall, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, provide information on the amendments which his representatives have included in the proposals for amendment. The resolution house rule is 46. § (1) and [[1o]] and paragraphs 1o to 12 do not apply. The resolution house rule is 48. If a vote pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article is requested, it shall not take place. The general debate, together with the discussion of the summary report and the summary amendment proposal, should take place on Monday, 30 March 2015 with a total of 20 minutes to open and close the debate. After the opening speech, the representative of the Government shall speak for a period of five minutes. Following the speech of the representative of the Government, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee and, if there is also a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion shall address these speeches in a total of 6-6 minutes so that, if there is a minority opinion, three minutes must be given to express it. Subsequently, the political groups will be able to express their views in 10-10 minutes and then the independent representatives will be able to speak in a total of 3 minutes. If the Legislative Committee has also tabled an over-extensive amendment, the debate should include the fact that this amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. The final vote on the summary amendment proposal and the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment shall take place on Tuesday 31 March 2015. If the Legislative Committee has also submitted an over-extensive amendment proposal, Parliament should decide on the regularity and acceptance of the over-extensive amendment proposal after a decision has been taken on the summary amendment proposal and, if adopted, the final vote should be held on the legislative proposal, as amended by the duly expanded amendment proposal and, if adopted, the summary amendment proposal. The resolution house rule is 108. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee.
u2015-03-30-26	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the motion by 170 votes in favour, without abstention, against 7 votes against. Dear Parliament, We now decide to derogate from the other house rule. The House Committee initiates the National Assembly T/4113 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Műlúk and Open Water Championships in Budapest. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to explain his text.
u2015-03-30-27	The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure. The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution - hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ - 65. On the basis of its powers under Article 1 (1) of the Act, Parliament proposes to the Parliament: the National Assembly T/4113 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Championships for Swimming, Waterball, Műjump, Műlútó and Open Water in Budapest. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of bill No 34 of the HSZ, it shall depart from the decision-making house rule. Paragraph 1 does not apply. May submit an amendment by 15 a.m. on Monday 30 March 2015. The detailed discussion of the bill will be conducted by the Legislative Committee in HSZ 44. § (1) and (3) to (4) and HSZ 45. § ( 1) to (3) and by the fact that HSZ is 45. The amendments pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 shall be submitted in the summary amendment proposal. If the intention to submit an over-extensive amendment or to support or maintain such an amendment is expressed, it shall submit it separately from and at the same time as the summarised amendment. The fact that the detailed debate is closed and HSZ 44. It shall provide information on its findings within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article. The author shall, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, provide information on the amendments which his representatives have included in the proposals for amendment. The HSB is 46. § (1) and [[1o]] and paragraphs 1o to 12 do not apply. The HSZ is 48. If a vote pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article is requested, it shall not take place. The general debate, together with the discussion of the summary report and the summary amendment proposal, should take place on Monday, 30 March 2015 with a total of 20 minutes to open and close the debate. After the opening speech, the representative of the Government shall speak for a period of five minutes. Following the speech of the representative of the Government, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee and then, if there is a minority opinion in the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur for the minority opinion will speak. A total of 6 minutes are available for speeches in such a way that, if there is a minority opinion, 3 minutes must be given to express it. [[14.10]] Subsequently, the political groups will be able to express their views in 10-10 minutes and then the independent representatives will be able to speak in a total of 3 minutes. If the Legislative Committee has also tabled an over-extensive amendment, the debate should also include the fact that this amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the content of the HSZ 44. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. The final vote on the summary amendment proposal and on the text of the bill as amended by the summary amendment shall take place on Tuesday 31 March 2015. If the Legislative Committee has also submitted an over-extensive amendment proposal, the Parliament should decide on the regularity and acceptance of the over-extensive amendment proposal following the decision taken on the summary amendment proposal. If adopted, the final vote shall be retained on the text of the bill as amended by the duly expanded amendment proposal and, if adopted, the summary amendment proposal. The HSZ 108. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee. (Applause from the benches of MSZP. )
u2015-03-30-28	Thank you. I ask the House whether it will contribute to the departure from the house rules, which, as in the former, requires a vote of four-fifths of the Members. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the motion was adopted by the House by 173 votes to four, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/3782 on the amendment of Act T/3782 T/3752. It shall take place before the discussion of its legislative committee reports. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts my recommendation on the agenda, which I am presenting to you with the amendments which have been adopted. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presents a personal proposal S/4118. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this, I propose that the Parliament elect Mr.Gábor Staudt, also a better representative, to be a member of the committee instead of a better representative, István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Gábor Staudt as a member of the committee by 174 votes in favour, 2 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now moving to interpellation negotiations for 120 minutes. István Tukacs and László Szakács, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-03-30-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is open thinking that health background institutions will be reorganised, there will be discussions in the background institutions on mergers, changes in powers, separations, the creation of new institutions. The question is whether such reorganisations make the system more efficient, or whether it is only about the withdrawal, reduction, austerity and downsizing of resources called the rationalisation of lawnmower principles. We see that the current drift in health is very, very difficult to move towards a solution. They're trying to do something with beauty patches, extra actions, redeployments, but it's just drifting. There is a series of inefficiencies in which people in need of care and, of course, employees of the sector are insecurity, with endless and questionable outcome; there are no surveys to show where needs, capabilities and capacities meet and how much funding is needed. In addition, discussions are being held to bring together, separate, relocate, or fully or only their powers of health management, director, care institutions; all of this increases uncertainty with all good intentions. Each alignment point is moved in the parallel negotiations and in the conversions. It is in that system, Mr Secretary of State, which currently accumulates losses around HUF 5 and HUF 10 billion per month. Just last year, 102,3 billion. It is not possible to know whether there are restructurings in the background institutions, what budgetary impacts they will have, whether in the institutions or in the budget, and if the person who works there today may work there tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. There's too much change, and unfortunately, it avenges you a lot. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what changes will be made to health institutions, how this will affect efficiency, whether there will be redundancies, and if so, how many people will be affected. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-30	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are running a little behind the case, honourable Member, the reform of the health background institutions has already taken place, with 12 out of 17 institutions remaining. The aim of this was, as stated in our general public health principles, to increase the number of years spent in health, to promote the health-conscious behaviour of the population, to eliminate territorial differences, and to give the whole system a kind of efficiency in the framework of state reform, to eliminate duplication and to increase effectiveness within health care. These legislative proposals have been discussed and adopted here in Parliament, and in this connection government regulations have been adopted, and since 1 March, the system of health institutions has been in operation in this changed system for 30 days. We can say that in 30 days, the management has worked well and is more effective. We hope that this will also be reflected in the functioning of the entire health management system. Allow me, in a few words, to tell you what has happened and what has entered into force since 1 March. The former eight national institutes of the National Public Health and Public Health Service have, by means of their statutory tasks, assisted the National Chief Medical Office and the public health professionals involved in territorial work with independent scientific and methodological work. At the same time, the former structure consisted of island-like, independent institutions, and often overlaps between programmes in different institutions for the same purpose. The main aim of the transformation of national measures was to provide the necessary profile cleaning for public health tasks, to create conditions for more efficient work, and to concentrate tasks and professionals. The aim is to make the flow of information faster and more efficient, to increase the performance of national institutions, while making the structure simpler and more transparent; right, from 17 to 12. Based on the transformation carried out, under the professional direction of the OTH, three national institutions will carry out the tasks of the previous eight institutions: an epidemiological type, the National Centre for Epidemiology; a public health type, this is the National Centre for Public Health; and a type of health development, this is the National Institute for Health Development. The Health Stock Management Institute continues to function as a budgetary body under the central management powers of the OTH, thus ensuring more efficient performance of functional tasks. [[14.20]] The former GYEMSZI was also transformed, resulting in the establishment of the State Healthcare Care Center, the ÁEEK. In order to fulfil the above, more rational maintenance function of individual healthcare providers, which also leads to more effective patient care through more efficient operation, the modified institute focuses solely on maintenance and central management functions. Other tasks previously performed will be transferred to other actors in the background institutional system, which means cleaning the profile of the former GYEMSZI. The National Blood Supply Service has been placed under the control of the central management and maintenance of the ÁEEK. The role of the National Health Insurance Fund has been confirmed through additional tasks. With the integration of the National Institute of Food and Nutrition and the National Institute of Pharmacy under the central management of the OTH, the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health was established. With the decoupling of DG Human Resources Development in GYEMSZI and the name change of the former Health Authorisation and Administration Office, the Health Registration and Training Centre was established. In addition, there have been a number of changes, which you may have heard from the Gazette, but if you wish, I can further detail them later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2015-03-30-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, If you had looked up from your paper, you would have seen how interested your fellow factions were in the text you read: nothing. And there's a reason for that. First of all, I do not accept your answer because if the Secretary of State for Health defends your position here, it is all right, but you may have a wide-ranging knowledge of any matter, you are not responsible for this area. Two. The programme "Healthy Hungary 2014-2020" - which would be a basic document - which you have said, does not contain any trace. That's the second reason I don't accept it. And number three, Secretary of State, you're doing a stealthy remodel now. They don't want to talk to anyone, in any sense that's unacceptable to us, so I don't accept the answer, Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 50 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: the result of the failed freedom fight: the tax on pálinka cooking increases by 70 times? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister for Interpellation, Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is competent and competent on the subject, will be answered by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! We remember that in the summer of 2010 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the government announced in a huge ovation that they would be able to cook at home again. Many of us who appreciate this great hungaricum agreed with this decision, as after nearly a hundred years of banning, the Hungarian pálinka may return to its old light after humiliating hiding and blurring in the morning. The Jobbik Hungary Movement also welcomed the news, and we voted for it, of course, because the pálinka cooking looks back on a very big tradition in the history of our nation, and its consumption itself has become a very cultic habit in the life of Hungarians. However, we have already indicated that the self-negotiated accession agreement will cause problems, since neither Fidesz nor the MSZP, when it was on the government, and they discussed this with Brussels, did not ask for this preferential home cooking method of the pálinka, although let's say that the pálinka was already a well-known, popular hungaricum. The first warning signs came soon enough. At present, the government's position is completely different from that at the time of the announcement of free cooking, since there is no evidence of previous tax exemption. 1670 forints plus overhead plus profit can be cooked at a cost per litre. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State that the families that have been so destroyed who have been persuaded to invest in, for example, the setting up of a payroll, when they will be compensated. What about them? Five years of EU funding have been planned. We'll have to keep these plants up until then. How will you look these deceived people in the eye? What about your credibility? Taking into account the fact that the houses produce about 12 million litres of pálinka per year, the tax increase is also a health risk, since the proportion of illegal cooking is rapidly increasing. Let us not talk about the fact that, counting two or three people, the 700 working farmers create between 1500 and 2000 jobs, in the areas where these jobs are most needed. What happens to them now? And here's the latest news: even with this, Brussels is not satisfied; the 1000 HUF trick you used to get home cooks to register - tens of thousands of people did so - can now increase the annual amount they have to pay by one move. Many have invested in this equipment only because of a fruit tree, and now expect them to pay 72 thousand forints after eating their own fruit. Amazing, Mr. Secretary. When and in what way will the wages be compensated? How do you intend to save these breweries? Why are you thinking now? Why wasn't he laid down in the Treaty of Accession, as Austria has done in a very forward-looking way for its own owners, for its own brandy? And who is responsible for this, Mr. Secretary? Why have they lied to Hungarian people since 2010 that they are allowed to cook brandy in Hungary, while you knew well that Brussels would agree to this, and this is only a temporary condition? Answer that, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-36	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-30-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In essence, you are not arguing with the Hungarian government, but with the European Union, and you and Jobbik also need to decide how you stand with our membership of the European Union. Because if you do not think that the European Union's expectations need to be respected, then it must be said that you should quit the EU and then you can do what Fidesz invented in 2010 to make wage-free cooking and allow home-cooked cooking. We also said that there is a risk, because the European Union will probably oppose this. But one fact, Mr. Congressman: for five years, Hungarian people did not have to pay a salary distillery. Now, unfortunately, we have to do it again, because they would have brought our country under infringement proceedings, which will have irreparable consequences. That doesn't mean the Fidesz lied, he was just telling the truth. He was just telling the truth that he has a risk, but we're gonna take it and we're gonna do it, and it doesn't mean at all what you're saying that a single distillery should be closed because there has been a tax, and most of these distilleries were created at the time of paying taxes, that's when they were created. As to the question of how home cooking will continue, the government will do everything in its power to establish regulations that do not require people to give up and legally, legally carry out this activity at home, who have their own fruits and undertake home cooking. A solution to this issue was indeed not accepted by the European Union, which was recommended by the government, so that a thousand forints per cook should be paid and collected by the local government. This was not accepted by the European Commission, and the letter was sent on 27 February expecting another solution. The deadline for this is not yet up to 27 April. By 27 April, the government will propose to the European Commission that the Hungarian people retain this opportunity, the possibility of cooking at home, but of course the European Union, the European Commission, will also take into account the position of the new system, but by no means the solution that you gave to the title of your interpellation is to increase the tax on pálinka by 70 times, so don't come back to me with this, because this will not be the case, so it's not real. [[14.30]] Mr President, there are some things that we agree on, namely that Hungarian fruit brandy is indeed a Hungaricum and that this is of cultural significance in our historical traditions. The customs must be maintained so that posterity remains, and therefore everything must be done for the government, the Hungarian government, even if we have an argument with the European Union, and we do not agree on everything, but there are many other issues in which we have an argument with the European Union, and yet the Hungarian position has finally been able to win. I'm asking you and you to support this and step up. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-03-30-39	I have a problem with Brussels, too, of course, because I find it quite amazing that when a person cooks brandy from his own fruit in his own garden, he has to pay 72 thousand forints. Next time, they'll hold the jam, I guess they'll tax it in a similar way. So, of course, I also have a debate with Brussels, but I also have a debate with you, because at the time of the Treaty of Accession, when it would have been the easiest time to bring this story through legally, neither the socialists nor you have thought that this should be communicated to Brussels in the way that Austria has done, quite rightly, once again. Nothing else should have been done but to take a well-functioning model and build it as an example. And Mr. Secretary of State did not answer the question: who is responsible for this failure? What are the suggestions for solutions that you're giving here, because we haven't heard anything concrete. Jobbik cannot accept that the age of the nooks should come again in Hungary, this Hungaricum must be saved, its quality must be maintained, and unfortunately the government has done nothing to do with it. I can't accept your answer like this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 28 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and András Schiffer, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Prime Minister:. Will the Prime Minister relieve Péter Szijjártó from the Quaestor, and will there be proper financial supervision? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, responds to the interpellation. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-03-30-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Quaestor has already been discussed here today, and I do not want to repeat what has been said, but rather to point out what two government problems and governance models are pointed out in this whole case. One focuses on the foreign policy of pro-government circles, known as the Eastern opening, and the other on the activities of the National Bank, which is an uncontrollable, loose ship cannon, which is very well pointed out in the whole case. The Quaestor Group has certainly committed one of the biggest frauds in the past period and has been able to issue an illegal bond of HUF 150 billion. He could have done that for two reasons. One is the merger of Quaestor's owners with the highest government. The current Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade not only purchased sovereign debt through the company or held the amount necessary for the capital increase of Eximbank, but also established joint shops for the operation of the trading houses. Péter Szijjártó also opened the visa centre in Moscow with Csaba Tarsoly, which we now know was where Szilárd Kiss arranged the visa for Russian criminals. So the Eastern opening policy in practice meant that Péter Szijjártó and the institutions he led were shitty [[Defiance.]] They are closely linked to all business groups, which are well placed at government level. [[Noise, clarity, interjections. The president's ringing the bell.]] , so instead of the Hungarian economic and political interests, he increasingly represented the interests of this business group on his own initiative. Another thread of the Quaestor scandal [[Noise, clarity, the president's ringing the bell.]] failure of financial supervision.
u2015-03-30-42	My fellow Members, please listen to the Member.
u2015-03-30-43	I'd like to continue by saying there's another connection to this case. This also leads back to a long time [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The decision of the Fidesz government to merge supervision into the Hungarian National Bank only made the situation worse. It is amazing how the Hungarian National Bank could give permission to a company with a capital of ten million to issue a HUF 70 billion bond, and how it did not realize that even 150 billion more would be on the market, and that the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions found a number of shortcomings in its April 2013 investigation, which would have led the National Bank's obligation to re-examine Quaestor in 2014. You failed to comply with this legal obligation, instead you authorized the massive release. This would obviously not have happened if the political protection resulting from these mergers had been achieved beyond Quaestor, even through György Matolcsy to financial supervision. This is institutionalized corruption. Dear Secretary of State, My question is whether the Prime Minister will draw personal conclusions from this matter. The question is whether it will put an end to the mere representation of the interests of some business groups in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the title of foreign policy. Will the illegal operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank be terminated, and will the May Other finally accept the proposal of the Politics on the restoration of the supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank? That's what I'd expect answers for. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Of course, the term used by the Member was a slip of the tongue. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, At the same time, the president-in-Office made a mistake, as the Secretary of State Levente Magyar wishes to respond to what was said in the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-45	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'll try to answer your question seriously. First of all, I would like to state the obvious fact that Quaestor - like many thousands, many tens of thousands of small investors, companies, municipalities - has been counting on the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade as a major company in recent years, and has caused us the biggest shock, the most unexpected thing that has happened in the past few days. Honourable Congressman, Quaestor operated a visa centre in Moscow, which is true, but there was no formal connection from the point of view of the trading house, no legal link between the government and the trading house office operated by Quaestor in Moscow. However, I would like to stress that the functioning of the visa centre was suspended on the day the scandal broke out, all kinds of contracts, all kinds of relations with Quaestor were terminated with immediate effect, and it is good for the Member to note this; as well as the fact that the opening up to the east is, of course, much more than we have with Russia through whom and what economic relations we have. The opening of the East has produced booming economic and trade growth for a range of countries in Asia, Africa and the Balkans. So to narrow down the Eastern opening to the fact that there was a visa centre in Moscow and the Quaestor operated a commercial branch in Moscow independently of the government, in any case and at least, Congressman, a gross misdirection of public opinion. As far as supervision is concerned, Mr President, the government is doing everything it can to restore confidence in the financial markets, so it is essential that investors who have been harmed by the brokerage scandals of the last few weeks are helped. On 19 March, the Investor Protection Fund published a prospectus for the customers of the Buda-Cash Broker house, which includes the possibility and method of submitting an application for compensation. That's what I'd like you to pay attention to. The current administrative and social consultation is taking place on the draft legislative amendment prepared by the Ministry of National Economy for the development of the financial intermediary system. The proposal can be found on the website of the Ministry of National Economy. By amending the Hungarian National Bank Act, the draft strengthens supervisory powers in order to ensure a more efficient and transparent functioning of the money and capital markets. It is stipulated that, in the case of investment firms, a comprehensive supervisory review should be carried out every three years, as is the case with credit institutions, ensuring that market abuse is quickly detected, that any damage is avoided or reduced. The draft tightens the fine rules. Raising the maximum amount of fines could provide an appropriate deterrent effect and thus encourage enforcement. Proposals for amendments to the Investment Services and Capital Markets Act will ensure that investors and investments are made more secure. Further consumer protection rules are expected to be incorporated in the course of the discussion of the draft. [[14.40]] It is important to note, honourable Member, that the National Bank of Hungary has so far acted decisively and has spent considerable resources to filter out companies that did not operate in full compliance with the legislation. Honourable Congressman, I would like to emphasise, as I have just done, that there has been neither a moral error nor a legal error in the management of state assets; we can account for every single forint in the state. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-46	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply, but I cannot accept that for a few reasons. The Secretary of State says that they were most shocked to note this event. Is it a non-governmental failure to control, if you are so shocked by such fraud over the years, if you have no idea what is happening, by having an obligation for the National Bank to deal with it and investigate it? Is it not a shame that they should be shocked and know nothing? He says there was no official pro-government relationship. That is exactly what we are saying, that there were personal relationships and mergers, and that is precisely the concern that raised the problem. He's proud to say that they released the Quaestor's hand immediately. Obviously, if someone gets caught in the mud, friends will drift away, but that doesn't mean that the previous relationship isn't justified. I am asking you to support the establishment and establishment of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then I'll believe they'll do their best. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-30-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 106 yes, 37 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The brokers of Buda-Cash should account for their own assets! It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. I would also ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and anyone leaving should do so quietly.
u2015-03-30-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, many people have analysed the version 2.0 of the socialist broker scandal: the Buda-Cash fraud series. The most relevant question in these analyses and political statements was where the money was immediately after the scandal. The question remains topical, although poetic, because we suspect that money may be in sports cars and foreign bank accounts of impertinent brokers. But that's why, and right now, we need to move on, and we need to settle the question of who's paying the bill. Unfortunately, we know the mazes of winding up proceedings, which may take months, even years. Meanwhile, those involved will have just enough time to dispose of the evidence and get the stolen money to a proper location. And the victims, at best, will receive a fraction of their lost investment, or worse, nothing. Life goes on, customers eventually forget, and honest people will get hurt again. That is precisely the point, honourable Members, which we must not allow. For this reason, who will pay for the Fidesz fraction? We do not leave the answer to a question unanswered for a minute, because our opinion is that at least the brokers of Buda-Cash must be responsible for their actions. There is no doubt that criminal proceedings concerning recent brokerage scandals should confiscate the entire private assets of those involved in fraud. As we have already indicated, Fidesz has submitted a bill that could be put on the agenda today with the support of the opposition, and we hope that it will have a law adopted tomorrow. Indemnities must not fail to take personal responsibility. Owners and managers of fraudulent brokerage companies should also be responsible for their private assets. We need extensive and rigorous controls in the world of brokerage companies, and we need to do the same work that the government has done in the banking world or in the savings cooperatives. However, it is important not only to be accountable, but also to prevent similar cases in the future. Our position is that much stricter regulation than the EU is needed, and national rules should be established that exclude, for example, the possibility of leading double accounting systems. The audit system also needs to be changed, and auditors operating in a much stricter system must be prepared to control tricky companies. It is worth reviewing the operation of the National Deposit Insurance Fund to help bank victims and the Investor Protection Fund, which protects investments, but also works with a smaller and incomplete amount of indemnification due to the higher risk. On the basis of the above, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: who will pay, and what lessons can be learned from these two tragic events? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, By processing the lessons and experiences of the brokers' affairs, the Minister of National Economy, Mihály Varga, decided to prepare a draft legislation and prepare the Ministry for the transformation of the money, capital and insurance market. The preparation of this draft legislation took place on 20 March and social consultations took place. The main point of the draft legislation is that there will be more frequent checks on investment firms, financial firms and credit institutions. Payment of the deposit protection fund accelerates and becomes smoother. We are initiating the abolition of the part at BEVA, so that small depositors do not have to make any sacrifices in such cases. We also want to tighten the penalties rules so that they are dissuasive. The bill regulates good business reputation, which clearly indicates who and under what conditions can carry out financial services activities. Then there will be a portfolio reconciliation, the government will approve the bill, and it will be before the Parliament in April next month. Joining your question directly: in the Buda-Cash case, the investigating authority, under the increased supervision of the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office, has taken successful asset insurance measures on the basis of the results of the previous proceedings. In doing so, some HUF 68 billion worth of assets were insured in the form of real estate, shares, bank accounts, movable property and cash. Taking into account that the total damage value so far is about HUF 62 billion, there is hope that, with the successful completion of the procedure, the victims will be satisfied. The government, of course, supports the bill you mentioned, submitted by the Fidesz faction, the essence of which is that the property of individuals who knew about the fraud can be blocked and included in the compensation. Such persons may be the managers, owners, members of the supervisory board and even the auditor. According to the bill, contracts that have been concluded since the start and discovery of the series of fraud must also be reviewed, so there is no way to save private assets in specific cases, and there is no way to get away with it, because if this bill, which hopefully will become a law tomorrow, is accepted by Parliament, this bill will prevent these cases. I believe that it is the joint responsibility of the Government and Parliament to find a solution that, on the one hand, these people should be accountable and punished if these acts have been committed and, on the other hand, answer the victims with their private assets. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-52	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply on many important issues. It is reassuring to me that the government is working on a draft legislation which has also conducted its social debate with the relevant organisations, which can help to prevent similar series of frauds from occurring at a later stage. After all, it is one thing with the current amendment of the law - which we hope will be adopted by this House tomorrow - that it will be possible not only for fraud offenders but also for their family members to have their private assets under lockdown, so that the compensation rate for victims can be as high as possible. [[14.50]] The special pleasure for us is that, in the case of Buda-Cash, the circle of victims seems to be blocked by HUF 68 billion, and claims can be fully met, but it is very important for prevention to adopt a thorough legislation, including details of controls and increasing the frequency of controls. Your answer is therefore accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Health Campaign in Tapolca." Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2015-03-30-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, It is certainly well known to everyone that, due to the unfortunate death of our fellow Member, an interim election will take place in Veszprém County on 12 April in the Tapolca region. During the campaign, it is also natural for the various political parties to put forward candidates and, of course, candidates to make promises to voters. But it is not clear to us that when, during the campaign, the State Secretary of Health visited the region, instead of talking about the outcome of the conciliation forums, or what changes are planned in health care, how many redundancies will take place, and with reference to the fact that the parallels are being eliminated, how many departments will be charged and closed, Gábor Zombor said: "By summer the investment of HUF 2.3 billion will be completed, and the rescue station will also be built in the hospital area. Emergency care should be strengthened and the number of active hospital beds increased. The health fund will finance the provision of day-to-day surgical care in the Tapolca hospital every week in the future, with an appropriate operating room and a ten surgical departments with active beds providing the background. He also added, Mr Secretary of State:. Of course, it is also important that the people living in the region feel safe, which is why central care is needed, and overnight surgery and medical emergency care are constantly being developed. This would otherwise be okay, provided that it is not the case that an investment that has already been launched, which should have been handed over a long time ago, is sold as if it were a future investment. For what we are talking about here, my dear friends, is that this investment should have been made months ago. The question arises: would this announcement have been made even if there were no interim elections? Or should people living here, people working in health care in Tapolca and Tapolca, face the same uncertainty as other settlements in the country? In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: will there be major improvements where care may require it, but there are no interim elections, and there will be improvements even if Fidesz-KDNP loses this election? Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-30-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have the good news, honourable Member, that there are countless improvements in health care not only here, but across the country. Four hundred projects, the total value of which is HUF 500 billion. That's what's going on right now. You have heard many times in Parliament about the modernisation of rescue stations, the construction of rescue stations, the construction of new hospital wings, the construction and renovation of building blocks, buildings, and the purchase of new modern equipment. These are all ongoing health developments, as I said, worth a total of HUF 500 billion. So in other parts of the country, wherever you go, wherever you go, you can see such improvements. You mentioned examples of Tapolca, and at last there was a part of your interpellation, honourable Member, which I could agree with. When Sombor quoted Mr. Secretary of State and gave a kind of government briefing, it was completely agreed. A total of HUF 2.3 billion is still being developed in health care. The first is the change of structure at Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca, a hundred years old - this is a TIOP development worth HUF 1.26 billion - and the second is the development of rehabilitation services in the Central Transdanubian region, which is a KDOP development worth HUF 559 million. These EU funds contributed to this as additional resources in 2013 and 2014, with HUF 375 million for the first project and HUF 80 million for the second. What they're about is what you've described here. The TIOP project extends and strengthens day-to-day surgical care to ensure patient-centred quality health care, with outpatient care background, and includes maintaining chronic care and rehabilitation care for quality services, while the second project can develop pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation services. Mr President, Mr President, you referred to the fact that these developments were simply because there would be an interim election. However, you should know, honourable Member, when these decisions were made. Not then, what you suggested in your current interpellation, as if these decisions had been made in the light of the interim election. They were born much earlier than they were born much earlier in the case of the other 400 projects. The project aimed at strengthening day-to-day surgical care and outpatient care was decided on 30 September 2013 and started on 8 October 2013. The grant contract of the other project, the tender for the development of pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation, was already signed on 25 October 2012 and started on 1 February 2013. This shows, honourable Member, that these are absolutely not campaign-type promises, campaign-type announcements, but are part of a comprehensive health development plan, precisely in order to strive everywhere to involve locals - because the county health coordination committees are continuing their work - to plan health capacities and carry on these developments according to local needs. It has been said here in Parliament many times that we would like to push the number of years spent in health for everyone, and we would like to reduce by at least 10 percent the number of deaths that are the main cause of death. This is obviously based on an improvement in health. You wanted to improve health care through a visit fee, your health development was only reflected in hospital safes, and you tried to bring in some kind of resources by raising your health contribution from 4 to 6 percent and then 7 percent, but these too were few. I think we can all be proud of this HUF 2.3 billion EU and increased hospital development that is now taking place in Tapolca. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-58	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-59	Thank you very much. I don't accept it. Secretary of State, the decision may have been made sooner, but the announcement was just presented in the middle of the campaign in the constituency. That's one thing. Secondly, for the sake of historical loyalty, we are telling you that 300 billion forints were withdrawn from health care at the time of your registration, and that is also excluded from social care and education, but this is not relevant. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Maybe it's not a coincidence that you were sent here to respond, and the Secretary of State for Health didn't dare come here to answer these questions. There's a revolutionary mood in health care, Mr. Secretary of State. Health care is in bad shape. When they push newborns with a shopping cart, when they buy the line in a fishing shop, when they buy drills at the Praktiker to get implants in during surgery, it's a shame that the Secretary of State doesn't come here to talk about it. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. Bye.
u2015-03-30-60	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-03-30-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Bridge programmes have been introduced in the Public Education Act as a hopeful tool for the government's policy of catching up, claiming to help students, inter alia, to participate in vocational training or to get into work, and all of this is supported by complex pedagogical activities. [[15.00]] They claim that the Bridge program may be capable of preventing early derailment of life roads. Jobbik had already warned that all of this would not be effective, since over-age sixth graders are not the most suitable subjects to wake up the thirst for knowledge in students who had lost all their motivation by then, and all this should be started much earlier. I turned to the national president of the KLIK with a request for data, asked for information on the operation of the programme so far, and unfortunately, I was faced with a devastating reality. During the previous academic year, more than 120,000 hours have been missed by students in this training form, and all missed hours exceed 350,000. As early as the first academic year, from the 138 institutions appointed by the Minister, the training started only in 90, with only 93 participating in this year's academic year, even though the number of students doubled. We know that the rate of drop-out in vocational training is very high, and every third student falls out of line over the years. The situation is even worse in Bridge programmes for catching up, with only 59 percent of students who successfully completed their studies, so more than 40 percent do not meet the requirements. The absurd situation is, therefore, that drop-out on the road to vocational training is even greater than in vocational training itself. As was also envelopable, KLIK informed that it would be necessary to involve more teachers and to assist teachers in the programme, since the proportion of students with integration, learning, behavioural difficulties and special educational needs is almost 20 percent. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State whether they are satisfied with the operation of the Bridge programmes. What changes are being made in order to significantly reduce dropout? When will educators in the programme receive the right help? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-62	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-63	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, It is indeed a very important issue, and it is a very important problem, so that those who start their studies can complete it, we can talk about primary school and vocational school studies. It's in all our interests that these young people finish the school they started. This is why the government adopted its strategy against unqualified school leaving in November 2014. 2015 requires us to have a lot of tasks, and this is based on the public education bridge programmes mentioned by the congresswoman, which I will discuss later on. But perhaps our most important task from this year is to strengthen the early warning and pedagogical support system as much as possible. This means that the institutional system should be able to intervene properly as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to have information that someone is not expected to finish the school and be able to help them by school or otherwise. One important step in this direction is to make preschool participation mandatory from the age of three, since in many cases leaving primary school without a degree is the result of children arriving at primary school at a disadvantage at the beginning. However, if participation in kindergarten and participation in kindergarten education is mandatory from the age of five, but from the age of three, then, we hope that this disadvantage already accumulated at the age of six can be reduced, and thus the rate of leaving without qualifications in primary school can also be reduced. This year we will continue all of our programmes aimed at promoting the success of disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged pupils in school, contributing to inclusive education and co-education, thus improving further learning outcomes, reducing the risk of unqualified school leaving. As far as the figures so far are concerned, the IPR impact assessment of the integration pedagogical system shows that the programme has brought overall improvement in the school performance of students from participating schools. Under the IPR, disadvantaged students receive additional services such as individual development, participation in capacity-opening programmes, and teachers acquire new pedagogical methods, the importance of which has been highlighted by a woman. The aim of the underprivileged students' secondary education, high school success and access to the profession is to promote the different opportunities sub-programmes in the Travel Scholarship Programme both this year and 2016. It is also planned to develop the monitoring system of the scholarship programme and to train mentors in 2015. Research shows that there is a very close link between school failures and social disadvantages. Schools set up outside the system of public education as a grassroots initiative and operating according to uniform professional standards were able to address these students, students and their families who were alienated from school and learning during the previous period, thereby increasing the chances of further education or at least of finishing school. School programmes with ESF resources help students in material need and in poor social conditions to catch up with exceptional instruments and clearly. I could also mention the Arany János programs, the Arany János talent program, the Arany János dormitory program and the Arany János dormitory program, in which more than 4,000 high school and vocational school students participate. With the introduction of the public education bridge programmes on 1 September 2013, we offer the opportunity for young people who have not reached secondary school after primary school, this Bridge I program, you know it, and for whom learning has given them nothing but a failure, and because of this they have not been able to complete primary school and have already completed their 16th year, this is Bridge II. program. In this year's school year, 2300 people receive personalised education in the Bridge programmes, an increase of 30 percent compared to last year's school year. I trust that this will also have an impact on the results. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked three questions: are you satisfied with the Bridge Programme, what are you doing to reduce the dropout and provide adequate assistance to teachers? You didn't answer any of them, Mr. Secretary. The situation is very drastic and deteriorating. The fact that 120,000 uncertified hours are missed by students in this program, I think that speaks for itself. There's a huge problem. This system can't be maintained any longer. In order to highlight the extent of the problem with a single statistical data, I have to say that there are five counties in Hungary where the proportion of disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children exceeds 40%. The 40 percent! And you can teach 2,300 children in a program like this nationwide, where the dropout is more than 40 percent. Mr. Secretary. It's a bust. I don't accept the answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-66	Thank you. Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 27 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - What measures does the government intend to accelerate the social integration of people with disabilities? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2015-03-30-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. In Hungary, a number of measures by the government demonstrate that people with disabilities are given special attention. There are many obstacles for people with disabilities in everyday life. Not only does transport appear as an obstacle every day, but also as an obstacle to finding a job, interneting or accessing public services. In general, it is true that the government is particularly concerned with the fate of disadvantaged people, as it has developed a number of programmes to effectively support people with disabilities. For example, the part of the Erzsébet programme that supports people with disabilities, the introduction of the rehabilitation card or the programme to support the preferential purchase of hundreds of cars. Today, some 73,000 people in Hungary are weak or barely seeing, and 9 thousand of our citizens are blind. The government is making significant efforts to provide rehabilitation care to partially or completely limited persons in their vision under appropriate conditions. So the government is building a new institute on Tata. Since 2010, the number of people with disabilities has increased by around 10,000 people in the labour market. Companies that employ people with disabilities give them the chance to make a living, not on social support, but on their own. Companies invest not only in the business, but also in the employment of people with disabilities, as they can do value-making work. [[15.10]] Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask exactly what efforts are being made to promote the social integration of people with disabilities, as well as the elements of the national disability programme, and how they help people with disabilities in their daily lives. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, To answer your question with specific programmes, I would like to present more here; we are trying to help the social integration of people with disabilities from both EU and domestic sources, and several improvements have been made, and I would like to highlight the following without the need for completeness. The aim of the project, called "The Eight Points" is to establish a national coverage, autism-based information and service requirements system and a base institution network, the ultimate element of which is the National Autism Coordination Centre. The second is the project "Rehabilitation - Value - Change" and, in short, the RÉV, in which we are launching a training and service development model programme to promote the labour market situation of people with disabilities in order to improve the opportunities for people with disabilities to work in the open labour market, which, we hope, will provide long-term help to those involved in this project. The project, called "Contakt" which has already been heard by several people, has built a video interpreter service for deaf, hearing and deaf-blind people. In addition, we provide a higher amount of resources for the operation of the national network of free sign language translation services than last year. The HUF 5.3 billion TIOP 3.3.1.The project will result in the complex physical and infocommunication accessibility of government windows and certain administrative bodies of government agencies, i.e. by using the signal interpreter service, who can only sign, and will be translated by this central service for the administrator, and vice versa. So you don't have to bring a sign language interpreter to someone who wants to deal with things in a government window. But this service is also available in other cases. For a long time, each year we support the work of assistance dog training organisations through domestic applications, providing parental support services to families of children and adults with disabilities. We provide additional support for the home provision of autistic and other persons with disabilities, and we support the activities of disability professional and advocacy organisations with significant amounts. Right here in the National Assembly tomorrow, Parliament decides on the adoption of the most important strategic document of the Hungarian disability policy, the national disability programme for the years 2015-25, the development of which has been carried out with a wide range of civil and governmental involvement. The long-term aim of the programme is to establish a complex framework for the entire life cycle of people with disabilities. The programme addresses as a basic principle the promotion of the self-determination and self-life of people with disabilities and details areas where intervention is needed to improve the living situation of people with disabilities, from health care to education, employment, social care to sport and culture. This strategy reflects the need to act together in order to enable people with disabilities to live in an environment that accepts and accepts them, which supports them while leaving freedom of self-living to the fullest possible extent. The government maintains its position that disability is in the common interest of all of us, and accordingly the implementation of the programme was established in the framework of a broad cross-sectoral working group, which prepares government measures to achieve the objectives of the programme, which will be included in the medium-term action plan for 2015-18. But for this to happen, of course, tomorrow the decision on the strategy must be taken here in Parliament. Network of government experts [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and it is an ongoing professional consultation body in the implementation process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-71	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Secretary of State!]] , which clearly shows that the Government's disability programme includes the objectives to be achieved, the necessary steps and the main directions that help to overcome the social disadvantages of people with disabilities. I consider it important for the government to achieve its objectives of helping people with disabilities through specific measures through education, education and training, as well as social, health, transport and labour market services so that people with disabilities can become more active and respected members of Hungarian society. Thank you, Minister, Mr Secretary of State for your reply, and I accept that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-03-30-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm a little scared of the paper. [[Defiance.]] At the beginning of March, I asked Mr Tállai State Secretary whether there is a soil tax in Hungary. To my surprise, he replied that no, there is no such thing, only the government wants to give the municipalities a little more freedom to secure revenue. However, a statement from the Ministry of Agriculture in January reminded me that Minister for Agriculture Mr Sándor Fazekas has repeatedly indicated that he does not support any measures that affect agriculture. It therefore calls on all municipalities which imposed a land tax on farmers to withdraw it. I did not understand that, according to Mr Tállai, there is no land tax in Hungary, while the Minister of Agriculture has asked for the withdrawal of this tax which is not theoretically existing, and it is not quite clear what it is and how it is. I wanted to ask for help to clarify that. Minister, I'd like to ask you, were you a successful mayor, led a successful city: do you see that this is the last opportunity to finance the municipalities, to levy different taxes, or is this the best solution? Is this the government's response to the lack of funding from municipalities to offer such opportunities? Do you agree with this instrument? Obviously, this contradiction makes it seem complete in government communication about land tax. There is total chaos in assessing the possibility of taxation in settlements, as they are looking for different legal entities. How is it that the tax which Minister Fazekas considered dangerous in 2012 will be introduced without further delay by the government? My specific question in my interpellation is which minister actually controls the Hungarian agriculture. Who's lying to farmers here and who's lying to local governments? Who controls agricultural land policy in this country if, despite the opposition of the minister, such a new tribute can be introduced? Can we expect a new tax on natural resources, such as air taxes, sun taxes, winds, or anything like this, which will still be open to local governments? What is your opinion, Minister, that you are lying, Mr. Secretary of State Tallas, or do you have no idea what is happening in the municipalities? That's what I'd like you to answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas, who responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-30-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to congratulate the Member for having been able to say his interpellation without obscene expressions. [[Defiance.]] And I would also like to say that it is thoughtful, especially given the use of words and the question of how I really think that there is chaos in your head, because this issue is not an overly complicated matter. Back in January, Mr President, we gave a detailed reply to this, in which we gave a thorough description of why the municipal tax should not affect farmers and why it is even unfounded to talk about land taxes. By the way, the Ministry of Agriculture does not, of course, support any decision of the local government to levy land taxes. So I'm somewhat disappointed that we sent you the answer in detail, yet you pretend you didn't read it, or you don't want to understand. Honourable Congressman, I would like to confirm Mr András Tállai's reply, his statement that there is no legal burden in Hungary called land tax, but only a municipal tax can be imposed. The amendment of the Law on Local Taxes, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, provides the municipalities with the possibility to levy municipal tax by considering local specificities within certain limits. [[15.20]] Under narrow conditions, land may also be the subject of this, but its subject is not a farmer, so it is not possible to talk about the taxation of agricultural production through land. As is certainly known to you, agricultural companies cannot own agricultural land in Hungary, so they cannot be charged with the municipal tax that may have been introduced in the case of land they use. Also, the land owner who uses his land as an entrepreneur cannot be subject to a tax on his own land, so that, in addition to the self-employed, there can be no tax on the land owned by a farmer whose income from his prehistoric activities exceeds HUF 600 thousand in the tax year. A farmer who rents land as an entrepreneur shall also not be subject to a municipal tax on a private individual or legal person. I also think it is important to mention that as far as 3197 Hungarian municipalities know, only 13 municipalities have introduced municipal taxes on agricultural land, which is about 0.4 percent of all municipalities. In addition, unfortunately, it is also necessary to see that not all of the few municipalities that have imposed the tax are aware of these legal constraints. Moreover, the Ministry of Agriculture is not the administrative body to judge the consistency of local taxes with the laws, but it can be presumed that the tax levied in a way contrary to the laws will be lower than the revenue expected, or that the necessary procedure will be carried out by the appropriate bodies, since the legal supervision of the municipalities is ensured in the Hungarian legal system. I hope, honourable Member, that my information was appropriate. We will be ready to send you our information in an eloquent Hungarian language. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-76	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-77	I did not get an answer - the questions asked were relatively simple - so there was a political statement, which cannot be accepted. Thank you very much, by the way, for your compliments, Minister. I'm trying to leave the obscene words to your political partners and oligarchs, so that was just a saying, so I apologize. You know each other, she can tell you what's possible. I don't know, maybe I don't understand, but what I don't understand is, if you confirm Mr. Tallai, then who will write the statement to the FM, because then who will write that you're withdrawing the land tax? That is what you said, that this must be withdrawn. Now, if you say that there is no such thing and you confirm Mr. Tállai Secretary, then this statement is wrong, then the FM must make order so that all statements do not go out. And obviously, the fact that farmers are not affected is a concern, because they will obviously be transferred to farmers, because where they have agreed on a gold crown at the annual golden crown rate of HUF 1000-1500, this fee will have to appear sooner or later. This will affect farming, and that is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the LMP. - A rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-30-78	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 102 votes to 32 with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Mengyi Roland, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: Hungary was re-qualified. What does this mean for the country's economy? It's an address. Congressman Roland Mengyi is the one to speak.
u2015-03-30-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Five years ago, the government launched its programmes to restore Hungary and generate economic growth. Accordingly, the country's economic flow was restored and the macro-economic recovery followed. We are now saying that all prestigious international credit rating agencies have a better view of our country's economic performance; the OECD, the European Commission, has also given positive signals to Hungary and agrees with the government's economic recovery efforts. In the previous week, another optimistic analysis of Hungary was released. We can remember that, earlier, Moody and Fitch - those who qualify - have already made a statement about the country's financial and economic strengthening, and now Standard and Poor, and have decided to upgrade. At present, all three organisations have a stable classification, i.e. Hungary is one step away from the recommended category for investment. In addition to the qualification, a report has also been prepared on our country, in which similar favourable economic performance is predicted. On the basis of the document, the country has become much more stable as a result of foreign exchange loans, a reduction in public debt, and notes that the country has become much more protected from external effects. The analysis of Standard and Poor on Friday also increased the expected GDP growth from 2 percent to 2.5 percent. Public debt financing is expected to improve further, while the country's creditworthiness will be strengthened through agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The report therefore makes it clear that the country's economy has been strengthened because of good government measures. Dear Secretary of State, This confirms that Hungary is on the right track, as a result of the country's financial stability and the reduction of public debt, both the European Union and international organisations are confident about our country's prospects. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how does the qualification affect Hungary? [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]]
u2015-03-30-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Sándor Burány: Let's hear it, let's hear it!]]
u2015-03-30-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, Hungary has excellent macroeconomic indicators. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Excellent!]] Economic growth has been 3.6 percent in the last year, which is the best performance in Europe, but the same numbers are also coming back in terms of employment, with over 4 million 100,000 people working. The people behind me are not happy, not the Jobbik, not the MSZP, I don't know why. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No MSZP, DK!]] Because they keep screaming during the interpellation. But that's their job. Public debt has continued to decline, now below 77 percent, and the budget deficit has been permanently below 3 percent. [[Intercom from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary has been removed from the excessive deficit procedure. The rate of inflation is also below zero percent. Obviously, the result of this is that the Standard and Poor credit rating agency has recently upgraded Hungary with one grade, which has added BB to the classification of the Hungarian government debt. Of course, this has already been expected by the markets, and this rating has been priced somewhere. Surprisingly, it may be that the qualification has occurred somewhat faster than is usually the case, since first they put the country in a positive perspective and then comes the qualification category. Obviously, the credit rating recognises Hungary's performance, and we have a good chance that the two other large credit rating agencies will see the country's performance in the same way in the second half of the year, and this will mean that further ratings will be expected. Obviously, the Standard and Poor - and has taken into account many factors beyond these, such as the forinting of foreign exchange-based mortgage loans, which helped to strengthen internal financing. The credit rating agency also welcomed our agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which could increase lending and boost the performance of the economy. This qualification gives Hungary a stability, in addition to recognising the economic policy that has been conducted since 2010, which it considers to be right and successful. The result of this is the qualification. In addition to improving the country's perception in the eyes of investors, it will, of course, provide security to the country, as this could significantly increase economic growth and improve performance. But it is also positive for the budget, as this means lower returns, so the interest burden on the budget will be reduced, so that the funds released can be used for other purposes. [[15.30]] I think that Hungary is on a good economic path, and if we do not have to go away from this - and why should we do so - then Hungary can receive further good news about its qualification. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-82	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-83	Dear Secretary of State, As he said, improving rating is indicative for both investors and investors, as it can generate and generate new investments and jobs, but I think that we are on the right track if we try to put these macro-economic results into practice for entrepreneurs and people working in the domestic SME sector. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bravo!]]
u2015-03-30-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Will there be a national pharmaceutical wholesaler? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2015-03-30-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The amendment to the Annex to the Act on the Identification, Designation and Protection of Critical Systems, Facilities suggests that it will create a state monopoly on a new pharmaceutical supplier not only and only in epidemiological cases, but in almost all cases. Unfortunately, this is not without precedent in terms of the state or this government, since previously well-functioning, profitable and predictable profit-making businesses have been included in a state monopoly: tobacco retailers, wholesalers, rules of the liquor monopoly and the state utility service provider are the latest in this respect. The state and the government use this monopoly situation to put market players loyal to the government in a position they would not be able to put themselves in, whether by concession or by amending legislation. However, in the case of wholesale pharmaceuticals, the issue is different, since there is an institution here, namely the Institute for Health Stock Management, which carries out this task, even if it does so together with the central management of the OTH. If we take this into account, together with the transformation of health background institutions and this issue, together with this amendment, we have the right to ask whether the wholesale trade in pharmaceuticals in Hungary will be outsourced and monopolised, and if so, under what conditions, what will be the fate of the EKI. Will OTH continue to be the one to do the procurement and distribution in the coming period? And finally, will there be a pharmaceutical wholesaler? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-86	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-30-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The EKI, the Health Stock Institute, as you mentioned, is a budgetary body that manages the state health reserve. There are many different functions in this, and you know it: from procurement to replacement to scrapping, where appropriate, the sale of assets and materials that are out of the norm, administration of international aid donations, issue or take back certain assets. This is an extremely complex task, but the EKI has also taken over the financial rights and obligations of health institutions that have previously ceased without their successor, and its processing tasks. It can be seen from this long list that the EKI has a wide range of tasks and plays a key role in maintaining our country's health security. From 1 March 2015, so from this month onwards, the National Office of the Public Health and Health Service is the National Office of the Public Health and Health Service, and there are no significant changes in its operation. As the Member indicated, CLXVI of 2012 on the identification, designation and protection of vital systems and facilities was amended from 1 January 2015. law, the change in Annex 2 to which you mentioned is the incorporation of wholesale pharmaceutical activity among the essential constituents. In order to ensure the provision of care to the general public in all situations, it is necessary to define the actors whose activities are essential for the benefit of the general public. The public health reserve is an essential component, as appropriate, but it is also necessary to extend this protection to suppliers involved in the continuous recovery of stocks, to the general public and to pharmaceutical wholesalers supplying healthcare institutions through pharmacy. The process of expressing as a vital ingredient is relatively long and complex: pharmaceutical wholesale organisations draw up an identification, self-assessment report, which is a key document for classifications. On the basis of the report, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health makes a proposal to the selection committee in the EMMI, which decides first on the declaration of constituents, and in this case the Minister for Health is the second-degree authority. The designated constituents shall appoint a security liaison person under the Act on the Identification, Designation and Protection of Critical Systems and Facilities and shall draw up a security plan to assist their own activities. The preparation and content of the plans through the security liaison person, as referred to in Article 65/2013. is controlled by the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of Interior on the basis of a government decree. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to increase the safety of the public health system, to maintain patient safety and to increase the protection of pharmaceutical wholesale operators. The identification of a pharmaceutical wholesale organisation as a vital ingredient does not affect its ownership structure. If an organisation dealing in the wholesale trade of medicinal products is not identified as an essential constituent, it will not be a disadvantage to them or any restriction. With the existing EU legislation and the above mentioned amendment of the law, it has been possible for the entire verticality of health care to be covered in order to ensure the continuous care of the population. That is why I ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-88	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask Mr László Szakács if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-03-30-89	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer because we have received a very exhaustive information about what we know, hear, see, but did not answer the questions. I understand that the Secretary of State is in a difficult situation today, because health care, education, people with disabilities and disabilities have also become ministers for a brief moment today, but I think we should consider that, when the EKI was functioning normally before 2010, there was a year and three months' reserve in the system and in the EKI. Since then, a new public procurement has been launched, even in the time of Mr Szócska State Secretary, but since then we have been constantly hearing problems that can be experienced in the areas of residential benefits, vital benefits, which you have mentioned. That's why I said it in the previous interpellation. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's what I'm saying right now. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 96 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: "Life after life imprisonment, or can we be afraid again? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-03-30-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, After the phenomenon called a change of regime, life imprisonment became the most serious punishment in the legal system after the death penalty was removed. This legal institution has also changed a lot in the last quarter of the century, in particular as regards the date of the earliest conditional release. Accordingly, criminals sentenced to life imprisonment are the Btk. Depending on their change, they may be released at least 20-25-30 years from now and may have to spend a minimum of more than 30 years behind bars. The situation is different for those who have previously been sentenced to life imprisonment: in their case, the final sentence excluded the possibility of parole, but Brussels pressure and pressure in Strasbourg are ultimately required to have a compulsory pardon procedure: after 40 years, these cases must be reviewed at least after 40 years, so even within life imprisonment, the possibility of parole will be open to the most dangerous criminals. [[15.40]] In addition, we know that although this punishment can be imposed on dozens of crimes or dozens of crimes, in practice, the perpetrators of classified homicide cases are sentenced to this punishment, so it is cruel killers without exception. This is why not only criminal or political but also serious moral and social issues arise. For where does Hungarian society get, how can Hungarian citizens feel safe, so that the most horrific, horrific murderers can enjoy all the benefits of free life at the earliest 20 years from now? Here it is recalled that several murders and attempted murders by Bene-Donási accomplices committed in the early 1990s, for example, the 20 years needed for the earliest release. Moreover, we are not seeing clearly, we are not seeing clearly on this issue, which is why I ask the Secretary of State with great respect how many people have been sentenced to life imprisonment since 1990. For how many persons has the earliest, minimum time passed, which is necessary for their release, or how many have been released from this punishment, or how many are expected to be released and released in the near future? As long as Strasbourg is concerned about the number of square feet per per perpetrator, we are concerned about the memory of the victims, the dignity of the relatives, and, above all, we are concerned about further serious crimes and serious murders. The main question is, then, when do you intend to solve this problem, when do you intend to plug it, patch this gap in the shield, and how long do we have to fear ruthless killers because of both the legislative and the continuing errors in the application of the law. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, 277 people are currently serving life sentences, of which 53 are serving so-called actual life sentences, so in their case the court ruled out the possibility of parole; I would add that some 15-18 judgments are not yet final in these cases. The so-called real life imprisonment was introduced in 1999 by Parliament on the proposal of the then government and was applied in the early 2000s, since it was clearly only possible to apply to crimes committed after its entry into force. It can be calculated - so it is applied from the beginning of 2000 - that in 2040, or 25 years from now, we can expect a first grace review required by the new amendment of the law, but the new amendment, which, as you mentioned, has indeed been adopted by the Parliament after the judgment in Strasbourg, provides for the opinion of a committee of judges, an expert committee and a panel of experts. This opinion shall be submitted by the Minister of Justice to the President of the Republic for the examination of the application for pardon, and the President of the Republic shall decide, not automatically, but after careful consideration, whether to be released in 25 years from the date of the first actual life sentence. I must note, knowing the statistics of grace, that we know of a relatively small number of cases in which the President of the Republic makes a positive decision on a pardon proposal, and in particular few cases in which the President of the Republic is pardoning a person sentenced to life imprisonment. I have tried to look at the statistics of grace since the 1990s, and so far we know of a grace in which the President of the Republic has exercised his parliamentary authority in the event of life imprisonment, so it is not at all a certainty or automaticism that the President of the Republic's decision of grace would be positive. As far as the decision of the courts is concerned, therefore, the conditional release and the earliest possible duration of such leave, such statistics I have not been able to find, are not considered. Obviously, it's possible to determine how many people have been sentenced to life imprisonment for conditional leave, and there are statistics in prison, and I haven't been able to get them at the moment. I believe that the assumption that persons sentenced to life imprisonment may be released is rather far from reality, since judicial decisions in a significant case ignore conditional leave, will be examined at a later date in the case of the sentenced person. So I have to say that with the introduction of the actual life sentence, the Hungarian courts have, as you said, been able to fill the hole that could be used instead of the death penalty that has been abolished since the change of regime. In many cases today, the courts use the actual life sentence. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-95	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that there have been concrete figures in your reply, but the answer is one-sided, because you have presented in detail the regulations or practices and facts concerning those sentenced to actual life imprisonment, but we have not heard any specifics about those who can be released at the earliest in 20 years. Remind him of the serial murders committed by the Soos gang. From there, by the way, many years ago, the youngest offender who could not be sentenced to death because he was not yet 20 years old at the time of the crime has been on the loose; I am talking about such and similar perpetrators. Similarly, in the case of László Bene - they were captured in May 1991, and it was a maximum of 20 years to put it this way - this is the case of such serious cases - or I might say, the case of the one hundred-halombatta monstrosity, my fellow Members - that we should ask the parents of one hundred-hundred-halombatta whose daughters were slaughtered by this beast, and they could soon return to society. Since the risk of this has not been eliminated, I cannot accept the answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 22 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:, Why is the government hiding the real gas prices? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2015-03-30-97	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Orbán government has set up a series of almost unlimited super-powers that you, in principle, have created to protect the interests of consumers and citizens, and it is now clear that this is not the case, and it is in fact the interests of Fidesz that should be protected. We see this in the Quaestor case, about the Hungarian National Bank, but if we move on with one, then we can see that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is assisting in such a thing, because here is the MEKH, which has not been able to explain for a year and a half why the retail gas service has been the same since last autumn, while both oil and gas prices have fallen to the bottom. This is an interesting situation because here is the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which has unprecedented powers, we are talking about a ninth ministry, and for a year and a half it has not been able to find out from the 100% state-owned Hungarian Gas Dealer Zrt. how much this gas importer actually buys gas from Gazprom. Here they created the basis for ostrich policy, because here it is that the office can spread its hands, you can say that he does not know the price, from this point on he cannot lower the price of the gas that will then be passed on to the Hungarian people. So here we Hungarian citizens continue to pay for the expensive gas price, even though we are obviously getting gas cheaper on international markets than before. Now let's see why this system doesn't work. We don't have to look at it for long, I have already written to Viktor Orbán himself about the fact that it would be good for him to remove Mr.Lajos Dorkota from one of them from the head of the energy and public utility office or from the chairmanship of the constituency of Fidesz in Dunaújváros. I obviously have a little say in what's happening to Fides in Dunaújváros, but I'm sure you're at the head of an independent institution for noticing that there's a constituency president. If we asked Lajos Dorkota whether he felt fidesz or not, he would also be embarrassed, because, as president of MEKH, he is at the head of an independent institution, but he practically runs a constituency in Dunaújváros. [[15.50]] So we can see that Lajos Dorkota is here, and here is the office he runs, which sees practically all the businesses in the energy sector, sees his data, can cooperate with foreign co-governments, so it is quite clear that this person and the agency he runs do not know how much the Hungarian Gas Trading Company buys. The gas. However, if the truth were to come out and we saw how much the price difference was, we would have to reduce the retail gas price significantly, and from this point on, if this were to be reduced, then the hundreds of billions of dollars resulting from the differences in import prices and domestic prices would not be put in the pocket by the state and the few private companies that the government of Viktor Orbán allowed to close to this simple, unfair business that would harm Hungarian consumers. So I ask, Mr. Secretary of State, how long do you put up with this operation, how long do you have to watch this dog comedy, how one president doesn't know how much he buys, and who's responsible for what you think. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2015-03-30-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Aradszki responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office performs the decisive part of the state's tasks related to the supply of gas and the preparation of the tariffs for public utility regulation. These tasks are performed by the Office as an independent regulatory body, i.e. only subject to legislation. The Gas Supply Act provides that the price of the universal service, the price conditions and the framework for price regulation are laid down in a regulation by the Minister for National Development on a proposal from the Office. The Office shall ensure that the information necessary to establish the retail consumption price is obtained in order to enable the Minister, if necessary, to modify the final consumer prices in the field of gas supply. The companies involved in the energy service also have the obligation to provide data required by the Gas Supply Act against the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Hungarian Natural Gas Trading Ltd. is no exception to this. No, I don't. According to the information provided by MFGK to the Ministry of National Development, its transmission is ongoing. MFGK has been and is currently paying particular attention to the provision of data. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The price paid under the universal gas service includes not only the price of gas from imports, but also a number of other significant elements. Such is the system usage charge used for the operation of the infrastructure, which is set by the regulatory authority, the President of the Office, in accordance with the relevant Union standards, in a regulation. System charges account for more than one quarter of the average retail price of the universal natural gas service. These tariff elements are essentially independent of the evolution of international energy prices, including gas prices. The price of universal service also includes the so-called product price, which is also an official price. The basis for establishing an official product of natural gas is a third of the domestic production recognised at cost prices and two thirds of the price of imported natural gas. The reduction of universal energy tariffs was necessary not because of changes in import prices, but because household overhead costs were extremely high both in the region and on the EU average. The government therefore decided to take a series of steps to provide immediate and lasting assistance to some four million households at the same time. The comprehensive measures for reducing costs have saved consumers more than HUF 1000 billion in recent years. It was this government that not only stopped the increase in overhead costs, but also returned significant amounts to families in an unprecedented way. Returning to the powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the Office has the means, such as the possibility of imposing fines, which may be applied if it considers that a company does not or does not fully comply with its statutory reporting obligations. These instruments shall be used by the Office within the framework of its own procedures. If these licences are not sufficient to ensure compliance with legal obligations, the government will also take the necessary steps. Please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept it. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-101	Well, I don't accept it, Mr. Secretary. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, not only civil Hungary for you [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] a political product, but also a reduction in the cost of electricity is a political product. It is clear that the fine of HUF 10 million twice is ridiculously small, which the namely independent institution has imposed on the natural gas supplier in recent years. In fact, if this institution were independent, it could withdraw its license until it provides the necessary data. I would like to make it clear to you that it is unacceptable that this institution has also been shredded, and from this point on, Hungarian people will be paid more expensive fees so that God knows who can put in their pocket the forints resulting from the differences between imports and internal prices. [[György Balla: decreased by 21 percent, not increased!]] You collect the Hungarian people's money while stunning them by making a reduction in their rent. The Hungarian Government assists with this shameful operation on the basis of the reply of the Secretary of State. [[Dr. András Aradszki: The lowest price in Europe.]] Shame on you! [[Dr. András Aradski: Fight in Brussels! A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2015-03-30-102	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 102 yes, 41 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Thank you money and clutter." Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2015-03-30-103	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Every day, my fellow Members understand, three doctors leave our country and want to work elsewhere. Nor does the fact that at the same time they had the hope of developing and keeping at home wages from the so - called chip tax prevent them from doing so. The doctors didn't stay home, neither did we get healthier, I'm telling you, they're skinnier, but it's a sideline. Dear Secretary of State, Meanwhile, doctors, at least those retiring or retiring, were forced to retire, and when they realized that this was a threat to care, they backed off with some absolutely amazing scholarship idea. Secretary of State, I think we agree that gratitude money is institutionalized corruption. It's about being allowed and subject to authorisation, but at the same time the patient thinks he's getting a better service for it, or sometimes he gets a better one. This institutionalized corruption is a hungaricum in itself, as there is no such thing as allowing someone to access the service bypass. Therefore, one of the most important things in health care would be the elimination of gratuity money. Of course, there are various ideas in this, and the last time the Secretary of State who led the wallet said that there was a redeeming idea: we need to raise the salaries somewhat, this would not bring a significant increase in wages, and it would also have to be tied to a clot, forced to stay in Hungary and to be forced to stay at home. Dear Secretary of State, In my view, this is not going to work, because not only does the promise of wage development not keep them at home, but also permanent deterioration of working conditions. Therefore, I must ask the following questions. Dear Secretary of State, One: what will be the real means of eliminating gratitude money? Two, what do you think of whether or not health care workers, doctors and workers have been prevented from emigration? What would be the real means of not leaving us and ruining the full health care operation by leaving because they can't stay? Mr. Secretary, what do you think of a real insurance company with a sick mind and, of course, to assist in the functioning of health care? And finally, I'd like to ask you when you're gonna stop brainstorming, throwing in constant ideas, instead of talking to the people involved, the patients and the profession. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[16.00]]
u2015-03-30-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can report not ideas, but results and a long-term strategy in the field of health. Honourable Member, you know that health care, almost all over the world, is lacking in resources, can and must spend more money for health and health purposes. One of the most important issues that stood before this government in 2010 was precisely the wage situation of health workers, the increase in their wages. We're talking about 95,000 people working as doctors and nurses in this sector, and they've had to offer the government some kind of extra wage development over the past few years. He did that, as we were able to give this 95,000 employees an average increase of 27 per cent of over 70 billion forints, which is obviously less than we wanted, but much more than they had received in the past, even for years. So we managed to include new sources in health care, the chips tax you mentioned, or the public health product fee, as an additional source of wage increases for specialists, nurses, residents as a source of income. This has not happened before. As a result of this wage increase, a total resident received an average of 75 820 HUF, while an initial specialist received a wage increase of 105 820 HUF. Obviously, we'd like more than that, but that's a result from the past period. You know that emigration has been most of the residents' concern. This is a process that started much earlier, years or even decades earlier, but fortunately as of 2012, the number of doctors asking for an official certificate to work abroad will be reduced. This is how we can follow the extent to which doctors can work abroad, and from 2012 onwards, fortunately, we are facing a slowing trend. Of course, it is a pity if Hungary loses doctors, but the good news is that there is finally a cooling trend in the face of the emerging trend in the previous period, less and less people are leaving Hungary. Most importantly, as I mentioned, in the case of residents, there was a basis for keeping at home under the residency scheme. In this context, the candidate for specialist or specialist medicine must undertake to work with a health service provider financed by TB in Hungary for at least as long as the scholarship is paid to him after obtaining the professional qualification and not accept any parasolvency in any way. This means a net extra 100 thousand HUF per month for these beginners. A total of 1700 people have benefited from this, who have remained here in Hungary as a result of the results of this programme, and have received this support. This is certainly a result; if the previous policy had continued, Hungary would have lost this 1700 young doctors as well. We have also tried to improve other circumstances, and I can even mention the lack of professional support. This can be paid to those who start their training in 2010 to all residents who meet the legal conditions in the deficit professions established by the Minister, with a gross grant of HUF 64 750. If the administrative burden or difficulties are mentioned, the rules in force as of 1 May 2011 have in many respects lifted the former tied system of specialist training. These changes have made vocational training more transparent for both healthcare providers and candidates and healthcare higher education institutions, making their admission to specialist training continuous, not only once a year [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , provided for the possibility of a change of profession, gave specialist candidates a net cost of 100 thousand forints; as I could mention this year's support of 10 billion for GPs. There are many measures, but obviously [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have a lot of work to do in this area. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-30-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept your answer because you're not willing to discuss this matter with anyone involved. What you're describing, isn't that going to stop the gratuity money? What we don't have, people are gonna pay for their privacy to get ahead of the line. It's not so much the wonder of the world. Therefore, what you have said is not enough. Dear Secretary of State, I also read strategies, and again let me refer to this particular programme of "Healthy Hungary 2012-2020." It says that the share of healthcare in the budget can increase by as much as GDP increases. They do not want to take advantage of this area in any way over other areas. Therefore, until this happens, there will never be any change in the way people pay for it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which, by the way, is free of charge to them. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2015-03-30-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 103 yes, 42 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:, How can you expect the support of Zsuzsa Hegedűs Foundation from small people working hard in the public sector to be almost binding? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2015-03-30-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Zsuzsa Hegedűs, Chief Advisor of the Prime Minister, is a symbol of the government's failed social, gypsy and civil policy. As the foundation is known, the foundation imports the animals, chicks and ducklings it distributes from France and the Basque Country, instead of helping Hungarian farmers with the acquisition. The case raises suspicions not only of total incompetence, but also of draining aid funds. This is only confirmed by the fact that the Foundation, which has been operating since 2009, refused to comment on its activities until 8 July 2014, but its financial accounts at that time are swarming with contradictions while still refusing to reveal its specific suppliers. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Thus, while certain civil society organisations are under constant bureaucratic pressure from the government, Zsuzsa Hegedűs, Viktor Orbán's personal advisor, may have been years too late with his report, while he may have mistreated a case, the issue of feeding children, to which many well-meanored people would be happy to donate. Zoltán Magyar's better friend filed a complaint in December 2014 on suspicion of fraud, which, despite a gross violation of the reporting obligation, was rejected on grounds of a lack of criminal activity. In January 2015, because of another weirdness, I myself turned to Minister Sesztas. It turned out that although between 2010 and 12, they only moderately supported the Hegedűs foundation of state-owned companies in some or all of the time, they suddenly became established before the elections, in 2013 and in 14 respectively. Companies belonging to the portfolio of the Hungarian National Asset Management, MÁV Zrt. and the regional Volán Zrt. started suddenly to support the foundation advertising potential enhancements for a long time on the hacked website. In his reply, the Minister then spoke about voluntary offerings made by company workers. That's the last thing we heard in socialism. The Alfa News portal investigated this statement, and in an editorial published a few weeks ago, it described what might have increased the suspicion that these offerings were actually leadership expectations, and, where appropriate, strong instructions against the cafeteria of often minimum wage workers. For example, in a district administration, a lot of things were said to the workers: they should give. We all know exactly what such a sentence means in Hungary today. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the government is aware that certain state-owned companies have put pressure on their employees to support Zsuzsa Hegedűs's law-breaking foundation, which is embarrassing the issue of child feeding. Is the government also planning, Mr Zoltán Kovács, Government Spokesman [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In keeping with your previous promise to thoroughly investigate the operation of the All Children Live Well Foundation? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-30-110	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-03-30-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You have two specific questions. One is whether we know that public companies would have put pressure on their employees or the union to make a donation. [[16.10]] No, we don't, and I can definitely say that. By the way, the foundational public benefit company you interpelled doesn't work out of state money, it's based on foundation offerings, it's supervised by the D.A.'s office. The balance sheets can also be viewed on your website, as you said. I repeat, companies under the ownership supervision of the Ministry of National Development or of the Hungarian National Asset Manager have no obligation to donate on any occasion. What you have mentioned in your interpellation - although you have called this something of a socialist spirit, if I remember correctly - is indeed that, in recent years, Hungary, as well, in the whole world, has become a general movement of social responsibility within the company, which I hope you support. This means, for example, that instead of sending a Christmas calendar, companies offer their Repi costs for foundational purposes or offer funds for such purposes to a foundation engaged in some kind of central activity. Mr. Congressman, you have either misunderstood or misinformed what Zoltán Kovács said at the press conference on 10 December 2014. He was asked a question there, by the way, citing one of the articles of the Hungarian Orange at the time, how well he knew the questions about it. He said that this information was new to him, that he would examine it to have information about these things. So he didn't order an investigation, he said he wasn't well-informed right now; he'd be informed, and then he'd be available to the questioner. [[István Szávay: And what did he come up with?]] The questioner, I suppose, will raise that again at the next press conference. So the Member has decided not to answer both of his questions. Given that I do not hope that the Member will accept my reply, I ask the Parliament to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Savay if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-113	Well, it wasn't very convincing about the pro-government applause, Mr. Secretary, but let's be clear. I was wondering if the government had any knowledge of this. You said you didn't. Then, Mr. Secretary, you do now. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is happening in public companies. I'd like you to investigate this case. If you really care so much about the hardworking little people, then go and ask if it is not obvious, is it not suspicious that in 2013 hundreds of employees, with their own minimum wage and HUF 100,000, suddenly start to donate tens of millions of forints to the foundation of Zsuzsa Hegedűs. And it's not about reparations, Mr. Secretary. It's about voluntary employee offerings. I would recommend the relevant article of the Alpha News to you, but perhaps this particular article would not be necessary either. Secretary of State, look into this, we will come back to this question here in this House, believe me. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-114	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 96 votes in favour, 34 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Tamás Attila Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Have you worked out a plan to reduce waiting lists? It's an address. Mr Attila Harangozó has the floor.
u2015-03-30-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Based on the answers to several written questions, we can see that the government has set a one-off HUF 6 billion fund for the reduction of waiting lists, of which 1 billion in December last year, 5 billion for this year. Government responses and government propaganda are all about them. The waiting lists have not changed much compared to last November's data, they are still long, the number of patients waiting for surgery will be 45,000, as a result of a recent reply to a written question. The most burning and the longest queue requiring, for example, hip replacement surgery, 7326 people waited for knee replacement surgery 8794 and cataract surgery 18 401 people waited. Obviously, I know that life-saving surgeries are ahead of the line, which is right. However, it must be recognised that the surgical treatment of diseases that greatly restrict the quality of life and prospects of those who are waiting for these interventions takes an unplanned, inaccessible time interval, such as 180-400 days in the case of major joint surgery. Not to mention some outstanding examples, which prevent the rapid and adequate conduct of screening tests, diagnostic tests, often hindering compliance with professional rules or even the initiation of treatment over time. We're hearing these cases from CT scans, oncology histopathology tests, and we could continue the line. The HUF 6 billion set to speed this up hardly seems sufficient to provide a systematic and predictable solution for both patients and the healthcare system. In fact, this HUF 6 billion appears to be a beauty patch or rather a Band-Aid in the healthcare system that produces more shortages every month. According to the Treasury's statement, the health system's debt increased by more than HUF 8 billion in the first two months of the year. Meanwhile, unused capacities, shut-down machines and empty supply facilities are waiting for those in need, who are being sent to line up in a crowded institution according to the current instructions. 6 billion forints is not much help in this situation, but it is a great deal to support government support and propaganda. The question is, of course, whether the waiting times expressed in his written reply can be kept - and, of course, for how long. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: has there been a survey carried out to see how much budget would actually be needed to eliminate the waiting lists? How was the HUF 6 billion set? Are you preparing a predictable plan to make use of capacity and to really reduce waiting lists? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-30-116	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-30-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He forgot in his speech that at the end of the year, the government did not first deal with the reduction of waiting lists last year, as at the beginning of the year he spent a HUF 1.5 billion on this, another HUF 1 billion in the summer, and indeed, at the end of the year, in December, the government decided on HUF 6 billion in additional support, of which HUF 1 billion was spent last year, by the last day and by January of this year, the additional part of this amount, this HUF 6 billion, so it spent an additional HUF 5 billion. For this reason, we already know some figures from the experience of the last year, because the first phase, the first HUF 1.5 billion support that the health institutions received to reduce waiting lists, reduced by some 3,000 people there and then the length of waiting lists. From this, we can calculate that the current aid, which was transferred at the end of the year and at the beginning of the year, will give 18-24 thousand patients the opportunity not to be on their waiting lists, but to carry out the interventions they need. Mr President, Mr President, the number of hospital debt and waiting lists have often been mixed. Another form of support is available to cover the debts of hospitals, the central source of the various public institutions, which includes HUF 60 billion for debt payments and debt settlement. It will also be part of the settlement of the debts of hospitals, and what you said as a monthly number, for which I do not want to agree here, exactly how much this amount is, that what you said is real or not real, but the point is that this other budget item is also available for similar debt settlement of health and other institutions. So we can say that this government was not only looking at the length of the waiting lists, but also trying to do so, and with this additional source, we can say that in the case of smaller surgeries, we plan not to have a waiting period of more than 2-3 months. Even in the case of major orthopaedic surgery, the waiting time for patients will be no more than six months, but we are confident that we will have new sources. [[16.20]] OEP constantly looks and examines how waiting lists decrease, how waiting times change, whether health institutions really use their resources to reduce the length of waiting lists, and obviously also make an analysis of them. You know, the waiting list is also a way of using it to see which areas in the country are longer than one waiting list and which are shorter. During the previous period, we have created the possibility for national planning to be carried out, not only for individual hospitals or counties to plan their capacities, but also at national level to see where one treatment is longer, where the waiting time for another treatment is shorter, or the waiting list itself. So we can even the territorial differences with this. This was not possible before 2010, but it was already possible after 2010. We hope that the patients will take advantage of it. You know that patients who have a very serious condition and if they were to be on the waiting list could cause permanent harm to their health, they could be ahead of the list, they would be given priority, but any deviation from that order should be justified. Honourable Congressman, So we can say that this government not only talks about reducing waiting lists, but also does so, not only does IT development, but in the three steps last year it spent a total of HUF 8.5 billion on this. The length of waiting lists has already been reduced by thousands, but if these resources are used by hospitals, the number of waiting lists may be reduced by another 18-24 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-30-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I didn't mix anything up. You wrote that at the end of January this year Hungarian health care has more than HUF 120 billion in debt. End of January! This system generates an additional debt of HUF 8 billion a month, and you claim here that an additional HUF 8.5 billion will solve anything at the annual level. You're not gonna solve this, Mr. Secretary. In recent years you have withdrawn more than HUF 300 billion from this system. [[György Balla: That's not true!]] Your response confirmed that to reduce waiting lists, you have no systemic solution, no plan, no real solution. And, you know, Secretary of State, we are talking about different professional concepts, while the point is that we personally know a person who should have waited three months for a histology study with a cancer whose course is three to four months. You know, this is reality, Mr. Secretary, and you didn't give me any answers. The answer cannot therefore be accepted. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-120	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 41, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. This is the tenth hole? It's an address. Mr Gábor István Harangozó has the floor.
u2015-03-30-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister! Looks like it makes as much sense to look for the truth about the Hortobágy pasture contest as the tenth hole on that famous Hortobágy bridge. I can't decide whether you ordered the Kehi investigation in the first place to cover up the Hortobágy Fidesz-dog, as in the other cases, you tried to cover up the shameful frauds, or you couldn't keep order in the weakened Fidesz of internal crises and conflicts, and your subordinates were doing business behind your back. 'Cause there's no doubt that there's a shame in there. Obviously, no one wants us to believe that the lawyer forced from Budapest by the Minister of State to the Bükk National Park by means of a public procurement scam faked the competition criticism, so that the clients of the State Secretary Tállai won instead of the original winners. Obviously, it is also a misunderstanding that in the case of Hortobágy National Park, after 428 out of 762 successful tenders were examined by Kehi and 92 of which suggested the termination of contracts, you say that 14 tenders will be opened. Prime Minister, after you said that the land application system was opaque, my fellow Member Grimlock and I went to see the Hortobágy pastures that Kehi had not examined. I'll show you what we saw. [[He's showing pictures.]] This picture depicts the animals of a successful applicant. I'm helping people who can't see that there's no animals on it. [[György Szilágyi: Yes, there is! Defiance.]] This shows hundreds of sheep whose owners have not received a single hectare of land. This picture shows dead animals in the land of a successful candidate, just thrown to the ground, and you can see that they are not the only ones, but they are standing in mountains. And this is the registered address of a winner with which he won the area, but no one's lived here for a year and a half. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Prime Minister! Then I'm afraid to ask if it makes sense for me to look for the truth of the Hortobágy farmers with you. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-30-122	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-30-123	Mr President, My fellow Member! Every time you ask me, I have to tell you the same facts. I'm sorry if I'm boring, but I'm going to repeat the facts that I've already told you on a similar question. We've ordered a Kehi investigation. It's over. The assessment criteria that Kehi did not find sufficiently thorough and clear were amended by the Ministry in the summer of 2014. There was a difference of opinion between Kehi and the Ministry on certain issues, which were closed by 31 January. As a result, it was stated that the successful applicants were obliged to fulfil their obligations under the lease agreement concluded during the full term of the contract. The reality of this is checked by the Hortobágy National Park Board. It is now the responsibility of the Hortobágy National Park Board to terminate the contract and re-submit the property for applicants who do not meet the conditions of the application. And this work is in progress. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-124	I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-30-125	Prime Minister! Seeing that not in 14 cases, but, as Kehi described, at least in a quarter of the tenders, I showed the photos of the frauds that are constantly there, anyone who goes there can see these - you should have taken action, especially after you admitted that the application system itself was capable of being abused and cheated on. It should have taken care to examine the winnings in the whole Hortobágy, the entire Bükk National Park and other national parks where this tender system was held, to examine whether they had actually won fairly and to see if they respected what they had undertaken. But you, Prime Minister, didn't take any action. You didn't ask the Minister in charge to resign. You know what I'm thinking, Prime Minister? Looking at your client's unlimited growth in the Valley, I'm beginning to understand your position. But I think it's unacceptable and unworthy of a Prime Minister.
u2015-03-30-126	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-127	Mr President, The investigation has been ordered, which is why we have something to talk about. In accordance with the findings of the investigation, the measures are to be taken as 14 cases were identified in the investigation. But I don't think that's what really hurts you or your party. Let's talk straight about the point. It is, after all, that the green barons you have favored were able to rent the state land. We've changed that. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Today, 75 percent of state land is rented to farmers, individual farmers and family entrepreneurs, and we have provided 250 thousand hectares for young farmers. Compared to your government, ten times the number of tenants on state land has grown, and that's fine. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-128	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. This is for Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. [[16.30]]
u2015-03-30-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In view of the fact that two weeks ago you failed to answer my comforting and exact questions about your agent charge, I am going to try again, this time in a much shorter and more concise way. I would like to stress in particular that the vast majority of Hungary, in general, believes that cases of this magnitude must first be rebutted and then rejected. I would therefore like to ask the question briefly and repeatedly: not before the army, not after the army, but specifically you, Prime Minister, during your time in the army, have cooperated at any level with the III/IV Group Chief. Have you prepared a report, in advance or not, of any fellow soldier? Yes or no? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-130	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-30-131	Maybe it's an exaggeration that you want to tell me what to say, because the right to answer is more my business. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: The responsibility, too.]] The pun is that it must be denied or rejected: according to our perception and my personal perception, one involves the other. I'm rejecting the question because I find it absurd, ridiculous, and untrue. So there's a rebuttal in it. I have never cooperated with anyone, at the expense of any Hungarian citizen, either when I was young or as Prime Minister, and I hope I will not do so in the future. Any statement contrary to this is untrue. But it would be unfair to even open a debate on this, since all documents are accessible and readable. Therefore, in order to avoid an unworthy debate, I reject, I find it ridiculous, absurd, and untrue, even to ask the question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-132	I'll give the floor to the congressman for the rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Then, in light of all this, why have you and your party or your faction never once supported the disclosure of the agents' lists, the taking of Communist luxury pensions, the Lustration proposal, or any motion to clean up public life that would have made public life clearer at a minimum compared to your 25-year debt? The fact that these agents are stuck on you or on other Fidesz potentates, all this is greatly facilitated by the fact that no proposal has been supported here for five years, which would have contributed to the actual change of regime in Hungary at this level. Therefore, I am going to ask again whether you are in favour of publishing the list of agents, taking away communist luxury pensions or of our proposal for Lustration. Yes or no? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-134	Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-135	I remember that we made decisions, supported and took action on luxury pensions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We took it.]] You are also right that perhaps too late and too little has happened in the case of criminal proceedings that have led to a public criminal trial so far. And as for classified documents, whether it's agents or reports, Fidesz's position is unchanged. We're publicists. The question is, who do we give the right to disclose? Our position is that for each victim who has been observed, for whom a document has been drawn up, and for whom there is all kinds of data, the full right must be granted to exercise full publicity, if he wishes, as master of the case. So our perception is that the right of access to the public and public disclosure should be given to the victims, the observers, the oppressed, the trampled, and they should decide what information they wish to disclose and what they do not. I think that both political and humane aspects want priority to be given to the right of victims. We support any such proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-136	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP and his group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who steered between 2010 and 2014? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader.
u2015-03-30-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Recently, Chancellor János Lázár advised us to ask László Puch about Lajos Simicska, but the fact is that László Puch is not here, and he was not the Prime Minister between 2010 and 2014, so I am obliged to ask you my questions. I would like to say in advance that I do not wish to make fun of the personal part of the story at all. I deeply understand that you are deeply concerned with the fact that your former ally, your friend, is publicly concerned with, so to speak, unworthy accusations. But there's a non-personal part of the story. That's what I want to deal with. The fact is, at the time, three years ago, the LMP faction said to you an immediate question as to whether there are oligarchs in the system of national cooperation. Even then, as before, you rejected the question, gave a definition of who you think the oligarchs are. Oligarchs - now briefly summarized, not literally, excuse me - are those who not only have a lot of money but also exercise political influence. And in addition, you prefer the term "national capitalist" rather than "oligarchs." In fact, at a time when we've been attacking the public jet's insolence over the last few years, even when they've done this in bonds with the labs, so with Swietelsky and Strabag, he also said that we're attacking the national capital here. Now, in the storms of the past few weeks, László Kövér, János Lázár, also referred to the loss of his former primacy, and Lajos Simicska lost his former profit, and that is why he lost his patience. What are we talking about? In 2013, 26 percent of public procurement in the construction sector was owned by the Public Machinery Group, only 15-17 percent in 2014. According to the press, in 2011-2012 there were 25 people in government positions who were tied to the Simicska-Nyerges axis, only three of these people are in position. I would like to ask you who really governed between 2010 and 2014 according to you. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-30-138	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-30-139	First of all, I'd like to know who those three are. [[Defiance.]] But seriously, my fellow Member, I propose that we first of all live up to the fact that from 2010 onwards, Hungary has not been governed. First of all, the IMF did not govern as opposed to the previous ones. He didn't steer Washington. He didn't steer Moscow. Eurobürocrats did not govern in Hungary, the multinationals did not govern in Hungary, the oligarchs did not govern in Hungary. From 2010, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai did not govern, even though they wanted to. In 2010, however, Hungarian voters authorised the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party to govern by a two-thirds majority. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They regretted it very much.]] We did our job. After four years, the voters appreciated our work, the result is also known to you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-140	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have a rejoinder for the leader of the faction.
u2015-03-30-141	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! The result will be judged by history. If you're wondering who the three are, I'll only give you one name: Ildikó Vida, if you know that name. And by the way, in Washington and Moscow, I'd be a little more constrained. Then, when we see the government position here on the US Free Trade Agreement or Russian energy dependency, I would be less courageous to say that Washington and Moscow do not govern here. [[János Lázár: At the same time.]] That's right, at the same time, Minister Lazarus. That's right! Prime Minister! The thing is, you've had enough of your State Secretarys being assigned to Radoc Street, and they're trying to run the government from Radoc Street. That's what happened. For four years there was a captured government, a captured state, so you kicked the horseshoe with Lajos Simicska, and he owes the Hungarian people, the Hungarian voters, an account of whose behalf the Orbán government governed between 2010 and 2014. Because exactly this conflict with Lajos Simicska exposed what the LMP said for four years, that it was actually a group of capitalists that captured your government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-30-142	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-143	First of all, my honourable fellow Member, at the time of our administration, there can be no personal aspects of government work; there are no, no, and there will be none. When we decide what steps we take in the interests of the country, whether by submitting a law to the House or by making a decision by the government, we are led by one aspect, the interests of the country. [[16.40]] I do not want us to go there and end up writing for the benefit of all kinds of oligarchs, the reduction of the rent, the tax relief for children and the bail-out of foreign exchange creditors, because these were the most important decisions of our governance. We have made every decision for the Hungarian people, and therefore we have taken full responsibility for each of our decisions, and we will take responsibility in the next election. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-144	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Bence Tuzson, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:.. How is the compensation for Buda-Cash's clients going? It's an address. I ask you, Congressman, do you agree -- yes, the Minister is here. Then Congressman Tuzson Bence will take the floor.
u2015-03-30-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, More than a month ago, one of the biggest broker scandals of the last period was Buda-Cash, whose first depositary was Buda-Cash. In the case of Buda-Cash, a lot of people, 110,000 people, 110,000 people, the vast majority of whom were involved in banking, were clients of a banking group, and they suffered enormous damage. They didn't risk their money in a brokerage company, they took their money into the bank. A rapid series of measures were then launched to compensate these people, BEVA and the OBA started the compensation process. OBA for bank depositors and BEVA for those who were not bank depositors but who kept their money in the brokerage company. We need to talk about an important issue, because if we look back on the past, there was a fundamental principle or ideological difference between us and socialist governments, because while socialist governments have loosened up the control system, perhaps on the basis of a strange liberal approach, we have taken a stand for tightening up, and the consequence of this tightening up is that these cases may have come to light. The restructuring of this financial system has been successful both for banks and for banks to be accounted for, but it has also been successful for brokerage firms. A process could have started when we checked these brokerage companies. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank now controls these companies in its strengthened powers and reveals the various abuses. But the most important question is where the money is, where to find this money, and how the compensation process is going. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-03-30-147	Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The authorities and bodies in the Buda-Cash case have indeed been able to contribute quickly and effectively in order to ensure that compensation can be carried out smoothly. The OBA, the Deposit Insurance Fund, will soon complete the payment of compensation. By 17 March, OBA already made payments to 96.5 percent of insured customers. More than HUF 100 billion was transferred to nearly 71,000 customers for compensation. Only deposits in which data gaps have been found are left out of the compensation, or there is still a legacy procedure in the case of deposits by deceased persons, or other evidence is required. Therefore, this will also be completed once the legal deadlines have been completed. In the specific case, the compensation limit is HUF 30 million per depositor. Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. the compensation of its investors has begun. BEVA defined 27 March 2015 as the first day of enforcement. Indemnities may be lodged within a year from that date, i.e. until 26 March next year. BEVA will be able to start the substantive assessment if it receives the information necessary to establish the compensation from the superintendent of the Buda-Cash Broker House. The liquidator shall reconcile client claims with customers and assess the existing and payable client assets. When the liquidator can already declare what Buda-Cash Zrt. issues to individual customers and what is the deficit after which the client has to be compensated, BEVA will immediately start and assess the claims for compensation submitted within 90 days at the latest. So this is where the judicial system needs to work together to ensure that this compensation is done as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-148	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman for an answer.
u2015-03-30-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are very pleased that a system has finally developed in Hungary where public bodies can act quickly and effectively in order to compensate. We hope that the wealth that was seized in the case of Buda-Cash will be sufficient for further steps of compensation, that each person who has suffered damage in this case will receive the appropriate compensation. But let us hope that if this is not enough, then our new bill to be tabled, which seeks to secure the assets from which compensation and compensation can be carried out later, will be effective, well-organised and can be fully compensated. We are all striving - and we hope that in the ranks of the opposition too - to ensure that the compensation is complete, and that everyone who is guilty can be involved in the entire compensation. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-150	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-151	Honourable Congressman, There is a good chance that the compensation will take place in its entirety. In the Buda-Cash case, the investigating authority, under the increased supervision of the Metropolitan Attorney General, has taken successful asset protection measures based on the results of the previous proceedings. In doing so, some HUF 68 billion worth of assets were insured in the form of real estate, shares, bank accounts, movable property and cash. In view of the fact that the damage found so far is around HUF 62 billion, there is hope that after the successful completion of the procedure, the victims will be satisfied and that the damage will be paid to everyone in this framework. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-152	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. What took you so long, Mr. Attorney General? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2015-03-30-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, It turned out clearly that in the Quaestor case, there was neither an issue of the involvement of pro-government politicians, nor of the highest circles. It also turned out that the Prime Minister knew what was going to happen, but he only told the Fidesz friends, and he let the rest of the people down. But it also turned out, and even after informing the Hungarian National Bank, it became clear that the Quaestor scandal was a fraud, as far as criminal rating is concerned. Because if someone else is mistaken for wrongful gain and causes harm, then they commit fraud. And the fact that the Quaestor is the decision maker doesn't require a more serious investigation. Then comes the question, Mr. Attorney General: what took you so long? The police and the D.A.'s office allowed for two weeks to destroy evidence, at least the possibility of doing so, and to change the company structure to investors in a negative way, and most importantly, to save their assets, making it difficult to compensate the poor customers. Days before production, the press wrote that Csaba Tarsoly's house was being transported by trucks, and certainly the same thing happened in the banks, only in a less spectacular way, in the form of transfers and other bank transactions. So I ask Mr. Attorney General what was the reason for the delay, perhaps for whose sake it was. Can you seize significant assets from Csaba Tarsoly? Don't you think ten days, two weeks was enough to destroy evidence? Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, When Mr. Béla Orgován became CEO, did he not think it was time to make a move? When they put Quaestor on a public worker with a criminal record - someone says that community service can't be turned into a career! - you didn't think you should at least interrogate the company's executives? Mr. Attorney General, you know as well as I do that trusting companies has been a systematic solution to criminals for 25 years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will the investigation cover whether the politicians linked to the ruling parties took the money out of the Quaestor immediately before its fall, because if that is so, it is a crime. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-154	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2015-03-30-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the case referred to by you, the police will proceed, under the increased supervision of the Metropolitan Attorney General, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has otherwise declared it a priority case. [[16.50]] It's not a simple matter for others, the fraud you're talking about is a very difficult fact to prove. You should know that. What did the police do under the supervision of the D.A.? The report was filed on the 10th, on the 11th there was already a search at the Quaestor, and then seven additional searches were ordered, four at two locations and one at four locations; ten people were interviewed as witnesses, and three persons were questioned by suspects, and a motion for prior arrest was made, and they were put under lock and key. By the way, around 30 properties were closed, more than 30 companies owned, 6 vehicles, and a number of high-value movables. There are now four additional vehicles, 11 real estate, 12 bank and securities accounts, and 7 companies' shares under the lock. Then, the investigating authority sent 30 additional requests, about 150 company accounts had to be obtained, and the verification of the invoices was started. Thousands of pages and some 800 gigabytes of data are currently being processed. I think that, compared to what you said, the investigation is going very fast, scheduled and effective. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-156	Thank you, Attorney General. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-30-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Then maybe what I asked wasn't clear enough. It is not a question of whether or not anything was investigated, but the question is why, at least as a witness, those who were sure to be involved and committed a crime, since the decision-making structure of Quaestor is known. It has been two weeks, Mr Attorney General, that these procedural acts have not taken place. The statistics you listed were very interesting, but in parentheses, three quarters of them were about the period that took place a few days, maybe a day or two ago. And I wanted to know exactly the two weeks before that, why nothing happened in those two weeks; how could the prosecutor's office, which, by the way, exercise increased supervision over the investigation, save wealth from a man whose guilt in this case - if any crime is involved, and I think it is clear - is unquestionable. And this is the head of the company. That was the question, Mr. Attorney General, and I didn't get an answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-158	Thank you. The Attorney General is also entitled to a return answer.
u2015-03-30-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As a lawyer, you need to know very well that anyone who is a potential suspect cannot be questioned previously as a witness is contrary to all human rights. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How many times does this happen? The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, it is necessary to carry out further and quite a number of investigative activities, but let me say that your colleague, Mr László Hegedűs, Vice President of the Budapest Bar Association, has just said on a portal - I hope it will not be followed - that these are very complicated matters and that the two weeks are a very quick procedure. And let me tell you one more thing. Maybe you've heard of the Postabank case. [[György Szilágyi: 3 million, yes!]] In the Postabank case, the investigation was initiated on 3 February 1999. The President and CEO of Postabank, who, as you say, knows and decides everything, was questioned as a suspect on 22 July 1999. There's a difference between the two appointments, and I wasn't the Attorney General at the time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-160	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Does the government really leave anyone on the side of the road?" It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor.
u2015-03-30-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, The damage caused by the broker scandals of the last few weeks or months is obviously well known to you. In addition to the moral damage, which caused the entire Hungarian society's confidence in the financial sector and in the state institutions supervising it, and even in the government itself, to be shaken by reason and right, the bank failure caused everyday livelihood problems for thousands of hardworking small people. But it also affected the lives of settlements that either led their accounts in the banks concerned or committed their development funds through brokerage companies. They have a problem with the operation of their social, cultural and public education institutions, as well as the financing of children's meals, for which the charity granted by the government is of little comfort. These municipalities - and there are many examples of this - will not even be appreciated by the competent minister, the secretary of state, the president of the MNB or the appointed supervisory commissioners with their requests and questions. Therefore, here in front of the public of Parliament, I ask: what does the government intend to do? We know you're the one who ordered the ministries that kept their funds at the brokerage companies to withdraw them because you were afraid of a possible domino effect after the Buda-Cash case. With this order, if not domino effect, it must have caused a tsunami. Now citizens' decades of savings could be lost, possibly, forever. I ask when you will also order the victims, whether the municipality or individual, to be fully compensated. When do you also wish to be discovered by the investigative authorities, the wealth of the hard-working scoundrels who migrated to offshore companies and havens? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or the injured will be owned by Béla Orgován. [[The president's ringing again.]] ...so to the age..., to the injured [[Moors and interrogations from the pro-government benches.]] And then Béla Orgován will be the owner of the company empire? I ask for a substantive answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-162	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-30-163	Mr President, Indeed, the government took timely action and sought to secure public funds. That's right, because it's people's money. The complete balance sheet and the complete set of data, i.e. where the public money is parked, is being explored, and as soon as this is completed, I will be happy to inform you about this. The reason the situation is so complicated is because the whole picture includes the fact that we also need to review the Quaestor loans at the Hungarian Development Bank. Kehi has been given the authority to review them. We are talking about a significant loan, a loan of HUF 17 billion, which was issued under the Gyurcsány government during the time of President János Erős. Therefore, exactly how the public funds are affected here is being explored. [[Miklós Soltész: Barondy, listen.]] As far as the victims are concerned, honourable Member. Those who put their money in banks owned by Buda-Cash, I can say that 96.5 percent of depositors, 71 thousand people, were compensated for 30 million forints. As far as the Quaestor case is concerned, I can say that the government supports the two proposals of Fidesz. One of the proposals is to extend the 6 million HUF compensation to everyone. This will mean - if this is done, as I urge - that 22,000 of the 32,000 victims will be fully compensated. That leaves 9,500 people. Fidesz proposed the creation of a wealth fund, which is also supported by the government, so that this wealth fund will be able to compensate about 9.5 thousand people who will still have a claim after the BEVA compensation. That means most of the people will get their money. We're doing everything we can to make sure this happens as quickly as possible. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-164	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2015-03-30-165	First of all, I would like to say that, Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, you are responsible not only for the money of ministries but also for 10 million Hungarians. You talked about compensation, but you didn't say a word about it for private individuals, but you didn't say a word about it for local governments. Well, all you know is that they only got 6 percent of the amount of damage, only on a loan. You say you've taken care of it in time. Indeed, they took action in time when, for example, the victims of Széchenyi Bank were rescued. We know that because of four individuals, a total of HUF 6 billion was transferred from the budget. This HUF 6 billion typically came to these four individuals, who are known to be individuals close to Fidesz. [[17.00]] We asked who it might be, we didn't find out. Let me name them here in public: obviously fidesz brother-in-law, boyfriend, slug and dog. [[A coup d'état in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's the problem, you know, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-166	The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll do my best to follow your mind, but it's not easy. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because now I don't know exactly what we're talking about. About municipalities, ten million people's money, Hungarian public funds, Buda-Cash, Quaestor, Széchenyi, or all at the same time? It's not gonna work. It's serious. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: I'm talking about government responsibility.]] As far as Széchenyi Bank's case is concerned, the Hungarian State had some 50 percent ownership there, and as owner, the government rightly felt obliged to be at the disposal of the injured until the proportion of its ownership, but only until then, because it has a responsibility. This is a completely different thing, like Quaestor or Buda-Cash, where the government does not have any ownership, and therefore these matters must be viewed in a completely different way. The claim that we have left the municipalities on the side of the road is not correct - I apologize to you for having to make such a sound - which is that it is from your mouth that we have left the municipalities on the side of the road. We paid more than HUF 300 million for that purpose. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Instead of billions!]] so that the people employed in the municipalities can get their salaries. This was the right decision, and we will continue to pursue this policy in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-168	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What does the government do to protect water?" I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-03-30-169	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-03-30-170	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-30-171	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to go to a little more peaceful waters with my immediate question, all the more so because it is the subject of water. As we know, the most important element of our existence, one of the four elements, is life on Earth without water. This was already known by the authors of ancient myths, but modern science is equally aware of this connection. This, that there is no life without water, was precisely recognized by the UN General Assembly when it decided in 1992 to declare 22 March the World Water Day; this is what gives my speech, by the way of my question. This decision was very justified, because water - as our whole environment and our Earth - is threatened, and it is the man who is causing the dangers, irresponsibleness, littering, reckless opening of mines and so on. Water is Hungary's greatest treasure next to its land, so it is very important that we do everything to ensure that water management is right; to provide our offspring with better quality water. World Water Day also draws our attention to the fact that water can be harmful, even killing people. Think of Sándor Petőfi's beautiful poem: it is up to us whether the water walks smoothly and gently down the river or hums, breaking the dam. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what water improvements are being made in Hungary and what the government is planning to do in the future in order to leave healthy, good and sufficient water for our offspring here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-03-30-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the World Water Day gives us the opportunity to review in a few words what we have to do about water, about drinking water, but also about rivers flowing across the territory of the country. If there is no water, it is very bad, but sometimes a lot of water can cause serious problems. I would like to start by saying a few words about flood protection. On the one hand, there is a change in the legal environment, in which the new level of moderate flooding has been defined, a new regulation has been drawn up; large water river management plans are being developed, flood risk and risk maps are being redeployed and localisation plans are being prepared. With the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan, the surface on the entire length of the Tisza can be reduced by 60 centimeters, while the remaining flood reservoirs can be built by another one meter. Of course, water is not the only thing that needs to be dealt with in connection with the flood, but also the protection of the drinking water base. We have 782 vulnerable drinking water bases in the country, which are being mapped and monitored; at the moment 310 are being assessed by water boards and 472 by KEOP applications. 88 municipal drinking water quality improvement programmes are underway, affecting 365 municipalities and 888 473 inhabitants. We use 180 billion forints of EU funding, 18 billion forints of self-esteem, which, by the way, provides self-esteem from the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-174	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-03-30-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is good that you started your answer with flood protection, because that is what is most spectacular and most dangerous to a person's everyday life, unfortunately we have been involved in the past decades. I was pleased to hear what a highly developed programme the drinking water base is for our government, since without clean drinking water our health would be threatened. With all due respect, I would also suggest that more attention be turned to better use of our medicinal waters. And speaking of water, this is another aspect of the issue, but I can't help but mention the regular internal water problem, which may not be really solved yet, and the use of these in irrigation would also be good. Hungary has a great treasure, I feel that it is in good hands. I wish you good luck. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]]
u2015-03-30-176	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the preservation of the state of healing waters and the use of medicinal water are extremely important, otherwise the government is treating this as a priority. The use of medicinal waters, the tourism use of medicinal waters and the use of them as agricultural or renewable energy is also a continuous programme for which tenders will be issued. The internal drainage is indeed a serious problem, the renewal and cleaning of internal drainage systems that have been neglected for decades is a new process. A public work programme that has reduced the number of areas flooded with internal water in many areas of the country can be used very well, and the maintenance of trenches along the roads within the populated areas is also well done with the help of public workers. I am sure that if these steps continue, we can significantly reduce all these problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to reply.
u2015-03-30-179	Yeah.
u2015-03-30-180	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Ikotity.
u2015-03-30-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, twelve points have been drawn up by the Health Trade Association, which included, among other things, the career model, the basic wage increase, the promotion of public transport, the introduction of the cafeteria system, the improvement of living and working conditions and the date, because they do not want to pay their wages in the distant future in proportion to their work and that their own health and family do not go after their vocation. At the General Assembly of the Chamber of Experts, the Secretary of State promised to take action on this matter, as is the custom, and as in such cases not much is achieved. To date, however, there are no career models, no wage arrangements have been made, and working conditions continue to deteriorate. It is not surprising that under these circumstances, these professionals do not really plan their future in Hungary. [[17.10]] Only the promise will not stop the emigration, so there will be no reduction in the number of staff, the shortage of staff, which now presents the workers with physically impossible tasks. Just to give you an example, like when a single nurse is forced to treat 40 inmates alone, but there is a long list of cases like this. And if you add the severity of the lack of equipment, which is also constantly increasing, which is why children may be invested in a shopping cart or the drill from the hardware store and the rubber pipe from the agricultural store - then the level of care will not increase, and this will affect all people who need health care. My question to the Secretary of State: where are you at in the 12 points of the Chamber and in the implementation of their promises? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are there any steps taken to actually reduce these problems? Thank you. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-03-30-182	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-30-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, our ministry, President Zoltán Balogh, has been in constant contact with the Chamber, and I have also met with Minister Zoltán Balogh, and he is also constantly in contact with him, and we know the problems that have been outlined. What you have said, let me add that you also have concerns about the situation of nursing homes, and there are many other suggestions that are fully justified and fair. Over the past four years, in the European Union as well, this government has tried formally to create new sources in health care, in particular in the form of a chip tax, a public health product fee, which does not serve the extra coverage of medicine in other countries, but because we have seen in Hungary how much the wages of healthcare workers are less than they can rightly claim, we have included these extra resources. A total of 95,000 employees, on average 27 percent increase in wages - including doctors and nurses - we hope that the more than 70 billion forints we have spent on extra wages have improved their situation. However, there is no doubt that even in the case of nursing homes or other factors affecting employment conditions, further improvements are still needed. This is covered by, among other things, the additional 6 percent that is included in this year's health sector budget compared to last year's. The programme in which we try to eliminate the debt of hospitals in the event that they undertake to make changes that prevent debt from being regenerating will also improve the conditions of health workers. The fact that since 2012, the number of people who have asked for different official certificates to work abroad and to carry out health activities abroad has been decreasing year after year, I think it indicates that there are people who are now trying to imagine their future here in Hungary, although there are no doubt that there were exceptional cases, which Mr. President also said, but in those cases the government took immediate action. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Whether it was the care of infants or anything else, we immediately took action and took action to prevent such a situation from happening again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-184	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-185	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, On the way back to the questions, my first question is: does that mean there are fewer health professionals abroad than there were a few years ago? Of course, the answer is no, their number has increased, so more and more workers are going out, and you can see that it's enough to see even one newspaper, the chamber newspaper, dozens of foreign advertisements. We hope that these people will be so patient and rely on their emotional decision to stay home, not to put the world on their backs and go abroad. The ones you mentioned, for example, are already talking about 3.9 billion in overtime, but I've never met a nurse with a penny of this money in her account. The average wage increase of 27 per cent was in 2013 - indeed worthy of recognition - but it does not seem to be sufficient for the solution, since it met on 21 March. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and nearly 4,000 participants attended this meeting, where these 12 points were formulated. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-03-30-186	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let us hope that it will not only be an emotional decision, but you will be able to see that they can work under slightly better conditions at home, so - as it has already been said here today - there is a health development of HUF 500 billion at 400 sites, which is precisely what the nurses working in this job do best to renovate and expand the hospital blocks for which this is most needed. In terms of the number of people or fewer going out, it is evident that every year fewer people go out. Obviously, even if a person goes out, the number of people working abroad is increasing, but we would like them to feel that we can reward their work with higher wages in Hungary, and on the other hand, Hungary has a tax system that, if someone has a family, children, is much more favourable than abroad, because they do not have to pay personal income tax, and there are many other conditions that are more favourable in Hungary. We hope that the 6 percent increase is the 60 billion HUF available to reduce hospital debt [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] will produce similar 27 percent increases in these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will the new hospital in Tapolca open its doors? It's an address. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-03-30-189	Yes, Mr. President, I accept. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-190	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-30-191	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is a very serious achievement that our hospitals are currently being renewed, and we have started the biggest development in the sector since the change of regime. In almost all counties, hospitals are developing both infrastructure and emergency care, as well as programmes to promote structural change. We must continue to work to ensure that healthcare can provide patients with even better care and health workers with a secure livelihood. With regard to health, we can talk about the introduction of a number of positive measures recently, and I note that private health services will not be possible in a public hospital. According to the government's decision, public and private service activities in the healthcare sector must be completely separated, and care provided by private service providers remains in place in the healthcare system, and those who wish to use it can continue to do so in the future. At the same time, we know that one of the key elements of the development of Hungarian health care is the gradual modernisation of healthcare institutions, hospitals, both in terms of infrastructure and assets. For this reason, in recent years, the government has launched a number of projects that have allowed institutions that play an important role in healthcare to be renewed. Currently, there is a great deal of development in Hungarian health care, worth nearly HUF 500 billion in total, and an important part of this is the development of Tapolca Hospital. As a result, a HUF 2.3 billion investment will be made in Tapolca and the rescue station will be built in the area of the hospital. The aim was to strengthen emergency care and, according to our information, to increase the number of active hospital beds, so it can be said that the modernisation of the hospital will also be exemplary nationwide. I ask the Secretary of State what developments are expected in the institution, where these developments are going, and when the renewed hospital in Tapolca will open its doors. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-192	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-30-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you mentioned, there is a HUF 2.3 billion development in two projects at Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca. The aim of one of the proposals is to extend overnight surgical care, with a strengthened outpatient background, and to maintain chronic care and rehabilitation services providing quality services in order to ensure patient-centred quality care. Within the framework of this project, the rescue station of the National Rescue Service in Tapolca will be built, connected to the building of the surgical clinic. The characteristics of the Tapolca hospital, the cave system there, are in a sense unique in Central Europe, so we can talk about another project, the development of pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation services. These developments were born as part of a system, not as part of ad hoc decisions, which is why they were decided years ago. The grant contract for one-day surgical care, enhanced outpatient care, new rescue station and chronic care and rehabilitation care has already been signed on 30 September 2013, and the project started in October. The decision on the development of pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation was made a year earlier, on October 25, 2012, and the beginning of the work was February 1, 2012 and since then the government has raised these items by HUF 80 and HUF 350 billion. Therefore, if we look at our construction work and take into account the hospital's forecasts, we see that there is no need for additional resources to implement it. [[17.20]] At the same time, these developments will be completed this summer, by the summer of 2015, and the Tapolca hospital and Tapolca community will be richer with HUF 2.3 billion worth of health investment, as well as the whole country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What I think is important is that, according to my information, those consultations have played a very important role in the structure of the hospital and in the change in its supply portfolio, and here I would like to refer to what our opposition colleagues say that there is no coordination in health care. Indeed, there are very serious professional discussions in the counties, and these professional discussions, where the profession, the managers of hospitals, OEP, and the leaders of the OTH are involved, can best provide what the people who live there need in patient care. And I think it is very important, Mr State Secretary, that there is also the development of a very serious pulmonary rehabilitation, which is traditional and provides very serious professional care according to climatic conditions. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-196	Thank you, Congresswoman Bene Ildikó. The Secretary of State also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-30-197	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your words. I think it is important to point out that these developments, which are now taking place in the health care sector, are decided entirely through consultation with the locals, as we have established the Health Conciliation Committees per county, in which the head of hospitals, the Archbishops there, the delegates of the medical chambers can participate either with decision-making powers or consultative powers and with the right to consult. So all the decisions that are being made today in health care are always made with the involvement of those involved, with the involvement of hospital directors and county leaders. So we managed to implement a national and coherent plan. In the case of Tapolca, it is important to mention that these improvements were made in order to provide one-day surgical care in the hospital every week in the future, giving the background to an appropriate operating theatre and various postoperative surgical care, so that the Tapolcans can be safer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what happened in 12 days? It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2015-03-30-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Due to the news about the Quaestor scandal, not only the politicians, but also the representatives and not only the small investors, but the majority of the Hungarian people are rushing their heads, and they do not believe their ears, they do not believe their eyes. A few days ago it turned out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and one of its organizations - Quaestor Bank held it, and, as you said, it parked its money, several billion forints, and took it out before the collapse, and instead of sovereign debt, as we heard here in Parliament today, it received cash back. It also turned out that while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs referred to experts, you had already taken the decision to order the ministries at a government meeting on 25 February to withdraw immediately if they had money from a brokerage company. 12 days passed between your order and the fact that one of the State Department's organizations took out nearly four billion forints, we do not know what happened in these 12 days. I would like to ask you a specific question: did you have any specific information that the ministries held public money in brokerage companies or relied only on your intuition? What happened, as I said, in these 12 days, why didn't the State Department immediately follow your orders? What other ministries had deposits that parked public funds at Quaestor? Did you check it, and if so, what steps did you take to see if your order had been carried out by the Ministry? How could ministries with offshore companies conclude contracts and contracts? After all, the property law expressly prohibits such transactions. This regulation was adopted in 2011. I would also like to ask you if you are aware that these public funds have come to Quaestor brokerage through public procurement or tendering. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-200	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-30-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I can tell you is that I was already strange when it came to Buda-Cash that municipalities had money in brokerage companies. Because this whole issue raises the question of why our state is not suitable, i.e. the Hungarian state, to have organisations with budgetary funds, including ministries, background institutions and local governments, have a treasury background that does not require that the cash holdings they hold be parked, parked and used either in banks or in brokerage firms. So we are talking about a weak point in the whole public financial system at the moment, so I consider your comment and several comments here as an urgency, which is about what the Hungarian financial system has not been able to solve for 25 years, or the Hungarian government system, to get to the end of it somehow. It is worth a special mass that since such work has taken place, how much we have spent in 25 years to create a modern treasury system, but in any case, let us get to the end, and let it be clear once and for all that the funds allocated from the budget cannot be parked in banks or in investment funds, but must be managed transparently through a controlled channel. It's the right thing to do. After it was found that this was not the case with the municipalities or 67 municipalities, we immediately came to our mind with the question of what and what about the central administration. And that's when I ordered an overview of the situation, and I made everyone aware that it was going to put an end to it. If all is true, the data collections in the Ministry will end this week on Thursday morning or Wednesday evening, and we will be in a state on Thursday morning to inform the public about the background institutions where and how they are affected in this matter and whether we have the money to look after otherwise. These are public funds, not the money of the ministries, but the money of the Hungarian citizens who pay taxes. That's why I thought it was right, at the first opportunity, to instruct the central government's organs to ensure the security of money. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-202	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-30-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I asked six specific questions, I didn't really get the answer, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the municipalities didn't keep their money in brokerage companies as far as I know, but in a bank from which brokers and Buda-Cash made this money disappear. You mentioned that by Thursday, you will have an investigation into how the central government was placed and how public funds could be placed in this brokerage company or brokerage company. That is why I would like to ask you if, in your reply, you will answer this question specifically, whether you are planning to be held accountable on the basis of the inquiry, because, as I mentioned, this Quaestor, as it turns out, is an offshore company, and your property law, which Parliament has approved, forbids such a contract. So clearly there's been a violation of the law - we know specifically - at the State Department. I'm waiting for your answer to investigate, and if so, if there will be any liability. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-204	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2015-03-30-205	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to give you the good news that, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, we have all the forints there. Then police and prosecutorial investigations, when they are completed, will find out who gets what, whether there is a public body involved, and what is due will be measured according to Hungarian law. As regards the general details of the Quaestor case, I would like to repeat what I have already said in answer to another question. Now we see 32,000 victims. We see that if Fidesz's proposal, which the government supports, is accepted by BEVA and can be accepted by BEVA, then 22 thousand out of 32,000 people, let's call them small investors, will have access to its money. According to our data, 9,500, I wouldn't say that to large investors, because we're talking about the amount above HUF 6 million, but a bigger investor, 9,500 people, whose damage we're trying to repair from the assets we're holding under lock and key. There's a chance of that. So I would like to say to you that more than 70 percent of the people will be compensated by the adoption of our first proposal, and with the adoption of our second proposal, there will be a chance for the other 30 percent. [[17 .30]] After all, you are sitting in the benches of the Socialist Party, so I must remind you that in politics, comparison is important in value-making. There was a Hajdú-Bet case. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] No one was taken, no one received a penny of compensation. This comparison, please, do it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-30-206	Dear Parliament, The agenda is closed, and I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Move.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. With all due respect, everyone who is about to go out into the hallway, please leave the meeting room. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the Committee on Organisational and Procedural Deficits of the State Tax Administration in relation to VAT fraud H/1758. a proposal for a decision with a serial number to be included in the series of items. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Schiffer.
u2015-03-30-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In November 2013, when the so-called NAV scandal broke out and the story was put on the table by the LMP faction, we demanded three things. One is for the investigating authority to investigate immediately. Compared to this, the investigation is based on the reports of András Horváth, but the end is still obscured. At least, Attorney General Péter Polt didn't resolve our doubts about the slowness of the investigation. The other thing we asked for is for the Government Audit Office to launch an investigation immediately to see if abuse occurred within the government, specifically at the top of the tax administration. The Government Audit Office has not dealt with this, but has dealt with the separation of non-governmental organisations. The third, which was immediately initiated by the LMP in November, was to form a parliamentary committee of inquiry, since Parliament has a constitutional obligation to monitor the operation of the government. By means of a Barba trick, you have managed to avoid the formation of this committee of inquiry, to escape the fact that Parliament's reconnaissance of the fact that since 2007 there was indeed a chain of VAT frauds, could it have been that from 2007 different VAT frauds from the national economy made up HUF 1000 billion. We didn't really understand why Fidesz, led by Imre Vas, worked so hard to get away with this investigation committee, because the threads still lead back to the late Gyurcsány era. Once again, of course, it is a story where the MSZP government is so muddy, obviously, but if they are so reluctant to investigate things, the Fidesz-KDNP government is also glamorous. The latest Imre Vas supposition for tripping the NAV investigation committee in the Committee on Justice sounded that the reason why this committee of inquiry could not be set up is because, on the basis of a passu of the Parliamentary Act, a committee of inquiry cannot be set up in a case that falls within the competence of the State Audit Office. However, the situation is that the passage is precisely that a committee of inquiry cannot be set up in a case falling within the competence of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the municipalities. By the Constitutional Court decision of 55/2009, the Constitutional Court interpreted such provisions, in particular in the case of municipalities. The Constitutional Court said that these rules cannot be interpreted in an expansive manner, that it is not possible to proceed from this point on to exclude the parliamentary committee of inquiry from any matter falling within the competence of local authorities. Ab said that the Committee of Inquiry serves no more than to investigate public matters requiring parliamentary publicity, that the Parliament may take action within the constitutional framework to remedy the deficiencies and violations identified during the audit. He said that the activities of the committee sent to investigate local public affairs under the responsibility of local authorities do not limit the autonomy of local authorities in the constitution. The State Court of Auditors shall carry out general powers to verify the responsible management of public funds, public and municipal assets. It is absurd to conclude in Vas Imre that this competence hinders targeted investigations. In essence, this makes all investigations into public money impossible. To make it clear that if Imre Vas was right in the Justice Committee, it means that in Hungary there is no committee of inquiry that can be set up on any issue that aims at the flow of public funds. In Hungarian, Fidesz-KDNP does not only want to curse the NAV investigation committee; for some reason, you do not want the Hungarian Parliament to examine the direction of public funds in Hungary. Stand your ground, my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, and tell me what you are afraid of, why you want to stop the committee from examining the flow of public funds. The only constitutionally acceptable interpretation is that the level of complex legality, effectiveness and expediency control of the State Court of Auditors is excluded. The NAV investigation board is obviously not this circle. Last time the State Audit Office issued its report on the NAV investigation a few weeks ago, the parliamentary committee of inquiry could start investigating where the investigation of the State Audit Office ended. Here last time, the State Audit Office examined only legality, not practicality and effectiveness. For example, the Court of Auditors did not examine why the NAV staff had terminated the Management Board on priority cases at the time, nor did it examine the extent to which the dismantling of these directorates and departments contributed to the creation of chained VAT fraud. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So there is room for a committee of inquiry where it is not a complex investigation and where the scope of an earlier investigation has ended. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-208	I'm sorry, Mr. Leader, I didn't tell you in time. [[17.40]] Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a time frame of 2 to 2 minutes, i.e. 120 to 120 seconds, as well as the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the written speaker, Mr Tóth Bertalan.
u2015-03-30-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Until the Quaestor scandal and the bank and broker scandals, we thought that the NAV's corruption-proclaimed organization system and the whole case were Hungary's biggest corruption case. Now we can see that we can call it one of his biggest corruption cases. The fact that the President of the NAV himself admits that almost 1000 billion VAT is not paid into the Hungarian budget each year would in itself justify a parliamentary committee investigating why this is happening and why this will not be done. So if nothing else happens, just this fact that 1000 billion VAT does not flow into the Hungarian state's budget, it should be investigated. That there will be a disbarment case after that, isn't it, that the United States has banned government officials, including the president of the NAV, is an additional additive that I think should be investigated here in front of Parliament. And the joke is that Vida Ildikó himself is investigating these charges within the NAV, not a public body, not a parliament. I don't know if you've used an interpreter for this investigation or not, but the result, I think, is totally unacceptable. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports this proposal in a series of subjects and will support it if Parliament decides to explore the business at the NAV by a committee of inquiry and explore how the Hungarian taxpayers can finally learn how the National Tax and Customs Office really works. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-210	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz.
u2015-03-30-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have called Mr Schiffer and other opposition representatives several times in the Parliamentary Act 24. Your attention. Unfortunately, I have to call you again, given that there can be no committee of inquiry if the subject matter falls within the competence of the State Audit Office. The 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 5. § 8 states that the State Audit Office controls the tax activities of the state tax authority. It is clear from this that VAT fraud and non-payment of VAT concern taxation activities. I think my fellow Member Schiffer also knows that we are right, but they are constantly proposing, for fun, committees of inquiry which, by the way, they know cannot be included in a series of subjects under the law. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we have introduced online cash registers in the last year. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes!]] Compared to 2013, there were 227 billion forints more VAT in trade. As of this year, the EKAER system was launched and 1500 tonnes of food have been checked by officials since its departure. So I think that, at the legislative level, we have done everything we can to prevent VAT fraud. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-30-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2015-03-30-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sad to see that no one on the government's side is interested in negotiating such a bill. There's only one person on the government's side. I was a little worried, and I'll tell you honestly if there's any Fidesz Members left behind, because there's been a fluctuation between two and three, and now there's four of the Fidesz Group. In any case, I see that this is a proposal that the Parliament should talk about for a reason and right within the framework of a committee of inquiry. According to the statistical office of the European Union, the rate of taxation is between 900 and 1200 billion HUF per year in Hungary. That's the amount of VAT cheated each year. Obviously, there is a lion's share in this that the government, in breach of its own electoral promises, has raised the level of VAT to the EU and to the world record level in Hungary. The higher the VAT difference between Hungary and neighbouring countries, the more it is worth drawing this VAT. It also seems certain that certain circles with good relations with politicians may have been involved in VAT fraud, and that there are no similar control powers over them by the NAV's revisors. Indeed, this is a worrying state, which could be answered in such a way as to reassure the accusations made against Ildiko Vida, whether this committee of inquiry is established, and with a noble simplicity, Parliament will end the question of where this cheated VAT between HUF 900 and HUF 1200 billion leaks, who are the groups of companies who sink this money, and what can be done in order for the tax authority to do its work more effectively and in a law-abiding manner. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2015-03-30-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is also outrageous that Fidesz-KDNP does not deal so much with this committee initiative, because here are the funds that disappear and from which a wage increase could be made in this country. You, Honourable Hungarian citizens, could get a raise from these missing funds, we could put this money into health care, we could put this money into education, we could use this money to make this place, Hungary, liveable, and finally not go down in many respects, but the Hungarian people feel that they appreciate their work in the workplace, who doesn't have a job, and it would be provided with the best possible opportunity to get a job again. It is very sad that, instead, you are making a prank campaign - to quote Mr Vas Imre - that every time we submit this committee initiative, you will come up with something so many times that it does not have to be done. It has been clear since the 1990s that virtually preventing committees of inquiry from coming from the opposition is the favourite entertainment of the political elite at all times. But this is about, and that is what we are talking about here, that your respected Fidesz-KDNP, power technology is failing the common good. The public interest falls on this, the Hungarian people fall on it. We can clearly see it, and do not deny that it was you who made the regulation that was already broken further, which made it impossible to set up the committees of inquiry in the new cycle, that it was no longer mandatory to set up the committee of inquiry with a fifth initiative, but only an opportunity. From here on out, you've opened the door to the fact that every time we submit this, you're going to vote so many times, but I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. The fact that you are bombing us here with numbers, with which you are trying to improve your own certificate, does not mean that you can fool the Hungarian people. Every Hungarian knows that Ildikó Vida's self-examination is worthless. And all Hungarian people will know that the May Other in Politics fights for it [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] For them to have wages, health care, and education.
u2015-03-30-216	Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-217	And you, the Fidesz-KDNP, are preventing that.
u2015-03-30-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Schiffer, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] He nods he did. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, So, Imre Vas, my fellow Member, the fact is that you are the only one who has a hack campaign. You know, if you took yourself seriously, you'd have smiled the same way you did when you spoke. The fact is that this committee's motion of inquiry had already been before the then Constitutional Committee and the plenary session. And at the same time, your keen mind prevented the commission of inquiry from being formed for a reason that the commission of inquiry could be set up for pending criminal proceedings, but it cannot begin its work. Remember? Even then, you were the spiritual father of this, and it came out of his head on the Constitutional Committee. [[Dr. Vas Imre: But it wasn't. Unfortunately, it wasn't.]] Now, the fact is, my fellow Member, that this provision, which concerns the powers of the Court of Auditors, was still in the law. Then that didn't bother you. [[17.50]] Now we've solved the problem of not coming up with concrete criminal proceedings for the commission of inquiry - and they're pulling out another bullshit. You don't mean what you said here or at the committee meeting. I have made it clear what is prohibited for the committee of inquiry following the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2009: the kind of complex, legality, effectiveness and practicality that is indeed the monopoly of the State Court of Auditors in this form. But that's not it. The point is that we should see how much these internal restructurings that took place under your government and under the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments at NAV have contributed to the destruction of Hungarian taxpayers by thousands of billions by companies, such as sugar companies, which carry fictitious invoices between Romania and Hungary and Slovakia and Hungary. You don't want the truth. You, my fellow Member, have now come up with an interpretation of the law, the result of which is that, according to Fidesz, Parliament cannot examine the fate of public funds in Hungary. That's what Imre Vas was talking about. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-220	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide whether to make the home care of elderly people in need fair H/3476. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén Craftor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-30-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In January, the Ministry decree on home assistance changed, and on the basis of the need assessment, the points for entry were raised from 15 to 20. Behind the intention of the change, we could often hear as an explanation when we asked whether there were likely abuses in the system, and this justified a higher entry point. What I can say is that if there were abuse in the system, we do not consider it a good way to sanction the recipients, to try to catch abuse from the end of the beneficiaries, but we have always considered it preferable to filter out errors and potential abuses through suppliers, service providers. As I have said so many times, I consider it one of the greatest sins that when certain people take advantage of social law, through people in need, on their necks or on their shoulders, they try to gain unfair benefits. This really needs to stop, but not through the caterers, but through the service providers. The other explanation for the change was that they were trying to turn home assistance into a more professional care, which means that almost only housekeepers with health education can carry out this task in order to transform home assistance into a more specific care requiring higher education. By the way, this could be agreed if the level below, the threshold below, the step below, were to be found. We are talking here about the fact that, according to our vision - and this can be seen from our proposal for a decision - for someone who receives the 10 points in such an environmental study, in such a need assessment, there is already a need to provide home assistance and help in his own living environment. We are talking about quite a difference here, because between 10 and 20 points, elderly people who have been found to have a need for care, but not just for 20, but, say, 12, 18 or 19 points, will not be entitled to any benefits in this system. The problem is that this application for care can cause problems in the health of many people, that if home assistance is not provided, care will not take place at home - otherwise in the least cases we can talk about mental care and mental assistance - or mild physical assistance will not happen, then in his health a deterioration may occur that may result in this elderly person having to use medical care. So the principle of social solidarity must apply, and if someone has a need for home assistance above 10 points, they need help to continue their everyday life in their own home, this should be taken into account. And if we consider it, we also need to provide people with some kind of care between the 10 and 20 care points. As long as the stairs below do not build up the level below, it is a sin to raise at this point of need, because it can have tragic consequences, because we know very well that many diseases are also of spiritual origin. If an elderly person is deprived of being visited at least once a week by someone who has a few words with him in mental care and does the things that are very difficult or unable to do to him, then we can eliminate any deterioration in his health when he actually needs more special care. And if it is possible to talk about things that are bad about social issues: if we calculate the cost of health care or a higher level of care, we can also say that while we do not create the lower level of social care below, but we retain this form of home assistance, and even if we can provide a lower level of service from 10 points, it will save millions, billions, because health care will not be used by older people, because caregivers working in home assistance will take steps to prevent this from happening. That is why I ask you to support the inclusion of this in the series tomorrow. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-222	Thank you very much, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the written speaker, Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó.
u2015-03-30-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the role of church maintainers in this area as well. This can also be seen from the data in the wallet's reply. While in 2010, 35 percent of the state spending on home assistance went to ecclesiastical institutions, 60 percent of them in 2014, 13.6 billion out of 23 billion forints, of which 5.5 billion forints were church supplemental support, as they received higher norm than municipal reserve institutions. It is clear here that when the government refers to abuses, the question should be asked which institutions have the highest incidence of abuse. And the question must also be asked - just as it was with the disabled - that if there is abuse in the system, abuse must be eliminated and not the whole system itself punished. In a few years, the number of people receiving home assistance has increased from 48,000 to 130,000, which also indicates that society is rapidly ageing in Hungary. And when we talk about home assistance, we need to talk about everyone's efforts to provide the elderly as widely as possible and not in residential institutions. This is good for everyone, for those who are provided, and for the system much less. In essence, once again, we can say that we think it was unnecessary to increase this system of considerations because there is a tightening up. Although, after the hearing of Secretary of State Czibere last week, it is not clear whether the people in there can remain in the system, because he did not answer the question clearly last week whether the people in there will not be harmed, whether they will not take care of them again, only for new entrants. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-30-224	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity in two minutes. [[18.00]]
u2015-03-30-225	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other in Politics supports the proposal to restore the previous rules of home assistance. The government has recently tightened the scoring system used to establish the need for care, which will only give you access to home assistance in case of higher scores. Károly Czibere, Minister of State for Social Affairs, gave a rather confusing justification for this step, which could leave thousands of people out of the possibility of using the service. He referred to two points, but it was very quickly revealed that these points were not sufficiently substantiated. Unfortunately, because of the timeframe, I do not have the opportunity to explain this in detail, but I think that those who are involved in this debate know these aspects precisely. All in all, I would like to say once again that the LMP supports the proposal, in any case it should be withdrawn, which could deprive thousands of the elderly in need of access to this service. In addition to repealing the regulation, we believe it is important to take forward the national social policy concept in the drawer and to start a consultation with the social profession on possible changes. Thank you for the floor. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-03-30-226	Thank you very much. The next speaker is President Novak, Congressman Jobbik.
u2015-03-30-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is very painful for me that the proposal for a better Parliamentary resolution on making home care for elderly people in need is now very short in its debate, giving a two-minute opportunity per faction, and in such a brief debate, the governing parties are represented with one single Member. Even Jobbik's faction is present with about ten people. However, it is a very important issue, which Fidesz addressed in the Fundamental Law at the level of fine words, with the obligation for adult children to care for their parents in need. There's nothing wrong with that sentence, it's a very nice human duty that's now in the law, but it can't be done with that. Especially when these adult children, who are supposed to care for their parents, are either suffering from life support problems themselves, or have left their country in a million-dollar scale because of your governance. After all, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said, it is possible to get out of here, not far from Viktor Orbán, who told them to go out and try their luck. This is why we have come to the point that the family is not able to care for elderly parents who are in need. That is why we have come to believe that there has been an enormous increase in the number of people using home assistance, for example, it has doubled roughly compared to 2010. During the year of volunteering announced by Jobbik and its youth department, I had the opportunity, for example, to do volunteer work in a nursing home, and to talk to institutional leaders and workers. In this context, we see that, of course, there are abuses in the home assistance system. However, this is no reason to make the whole system more difficult and drastically less accessible. That's why I'm hoping you'll be willing to move in another direction on the Jobbik's proposal, because unfortunately, we've seen a different example. Last year's amendment to the social law also led to the introduction of a single entry fee in the nursing home, for example. What was free at some point now costs 6 million forints to get into a nursing home at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-228	Thank you very much. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Yes, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén.
u2015-03-30-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just say that, in addition to what we are actually seeing, as I said in the presentation, one of the greatest sins is that if someone uses people in need to gain unfair profits and take unfair income, it is equally unacceptable and unforgivable sin if a government tries to save on the most needy layer. For what I have seen in the comments, we agree with opposition politicians on the question that again this is not about anything else, however much we have heard of explanations, they were not quite satisfactory than about saving. And the needy - to say the truth - from the elderly who are entitled to home care, from people who need to visit and help them in their homes, whether mentally or physically, to withdraw a service from them, to withdraw one's help just to save their budget, to say the least, is outrageous. If I may refer to the speech of my fellow Member, Mr President, it confirms my view that there is nothing else to support the transformation of the social system, only the savings or the introduction of a cost in the homes of the elderly. The government is very well aware that the normative provision to nursing homes is not enough to maintain an institution. But then the easiest thing to do is to try to get a better look at older people. In the case of home assistance, the government is looking for gaps in where to save forints for various or pally investments, so the easiest thing to do is to touch those people, to take care of people who are no longer strong enough to raise their voice. That is why we, opposition representatives, are here to raise our voice, to stop, and to ask for the original system to be restored, not to remain old people without care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-230	Thank you very much. There's been a little mistake. Congressman Kovács pressed the button in the wrong place. I'll give you the floor now. Here you go.
u2015-03-30-231	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder.]] I was pre-registered in writing.
u2015-03-30-232	Just a moment, Congressman Kovács, you're about to get your voice.
u2015-03-30-233	I wanted to respond, but then there is a two-minute faction release after the author's reply. There's no one left by the government, especially the elderly. I think that my fellow Member Sebestyén knows best that social law... [[For signal:]] Sorry, my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, knows that one of the basic services of social law is home assistance. Next to him is home care, a hot meal, a day care for the elderly, home assistance on a normative basis, family assistance, home care, which is now actually out of fairness, but remained there as a municipal emergency aid. Therefore, there is nothing to prevent local governments from taking care of the elderly for up to 12 months. In addition, the said contribution shall cover the source available for the family member's asset assessment. So, in the same way, everyone who can't afford it can get into the system without money, but there really was a need to maximize a contribution that would impose an obligation to maintain an institution, regardless of its maintenance, primarily to public institutions. And the fact that my fellow Member Bangón will shift it towards the maintainers, whether the church maintainers live back more, I think that is precisely the 15 points of abuse, because 99 percent of people who have reached retirement age are subject to the 15-point cost standard, so to speak, to a pull-off. That is why the government has raised that if it already provides services, it should be a more qualitative service, a truly needy one will receive this service. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2015-03-30-234	Thank you. If the author thinks he wants to respond, I'll give him the floor. [[For signal:]] No. Thank you very much for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee has not yet completed its meeting and has not been able to submit its papers. So I'm ordering a 15-minute trial break. [[Break: 18.08-18.23]] [[President: Sándor LezsákJournalists: Nándor Gúr and Dr István Tiba]]
u2015-03-30-235	Dear Parliament, The committee's still in session. I'm taking a 19-hour break. [[Break: 18.23-18.42]] [[President: Sándor LezsákJournalists: Nándor Gúr and Dr István Tiba]]
u2015-03-30-236	Dear Parliament, After the committee meeting is over, we will resume our work in two minutes. [[It's a short break.]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[General noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats. A joint debate on the proposal to secure the assets for the compensation of victims of broker scandals follows. Antal Rogán, Gergely Gulyás, Bence Tuzson, István Németh Szilárd, Members of Fidesz Alpár Gyopáros, and MEP Péter Harrach KDNP's own motion T/4029. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 20 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 5 minutes for a statement by the representative of the Government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10-10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the author of the item on the agenda. But before I give you the floor, I would like to point out that you have a time frame of 20 minutes to present the opening speech and the closing word. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have a very difficult task ahead of us, and we must now create a very serious piece of legislation, because we must now put an end to a very old process. A long time ago, more than ten years ago, this process began, which has recently been highlighted by the Hungarian National Bank, the supervision. He drew attention to the abuse of brokerage companies in Hungary, and in recent years nearly HUF 300 billion was discovered by representatives of the National Bank. If we are talking about this issue, we cannot stop and go back a little bit to the past, and we also need to look at what led to this situation in Hungary. There is a significant difference between us and previous governments, and this worldview difference consists primarily of the fact that while previous governments have loosened up control based on a misinterpreted neoliberal approach, we are seeking a whole different set of rules, a much stricter control system. This is true of the financial system as a whole, since the financial system previously had much more liberal rules, socialist governments abolished the guarantee that was behind forint loans for example, eliminated the state support for forint loans, and thus pushed people towards foreign exchange loans. This was also the case with brokerage companies, since there was a long period of time for brokerage companies under socialist governments when there was no control at all. In 2009, a new control of these brokerage companies was introduced, but it is still 5 years old - 5 years old! - during the control period, so checks were carried out in 2010, for example, for Buda-Cash. Interestingly, this on-the-spot check was closed one day before the Fidesz government was established, so the representatives of the broker company could expect that there would be no control in the next government cycle. Our mentality is completely different. We were different to the financial system, different to the banks. In this connection, we have also started the restructuring of the banking system, the accountability of the banks, the outsourcing of foreign exchange loans from Hungary, and this year will be finalized. We have done the same with the savings cooperative system, we have implemented a different concept there, we have created a new system in Hungary, and now the form of the savings cooperative is an investment, a secure form of investment in Hungary, a well-functioning system has been created. The same is the case with brokerage companies, we have proposed and implemented a much stricter control system in Hungary, a completely different control system has been created, as a control company and as a control institution, instead of the former PSF, there is now a consolidated supervision under the Hungarian National Bank, where the information meets. The information and control skills at the National Bank are also met, and controls are carried out in these companies in a completely new way. The point of this new approach is that, contrary to the previous approach, when only papers were compared, the data in the papers were looked at, whether there was tension or not, now the inspectors go out to the site, generate data on the spot, see if the previous reports actually contain the real data. These controls are also successful, as they already reveal various abuses during the first period of the audit. As a result, Hungary has recently been able to detect huge abuses, which no one has ever detected in decades. This is a new thing in Hungary, and we need to continue this trend, and we need to solve the question of finding where the money is, because this is the most important question: strengthen control, go through this sector, the whole sector, and see where there are abuses. Companies that have abused people's trust must be removed from this market and only decent firms must operate later. [[18.50]] We need to restore confidence and financial confidence in Hungary, because if companies are operating that are absconding people's money, this trust will never be restored. We must therefore have strong supervision, but we must also strengthen the institutions of criminal proceedings, criminal law. The important question is that what has happened so many times in Hungary is that some people take away, steal other people's money, and then spread their arms, saying that they have nothing, and that the people who have suffered the damage, thousands, tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of people, stay at the top, have no compensation or compensation. Accordingly, we are proposing a new type of regulation in Hungary. We propose that the compensation will finally be given to the people in Hungary, namely from the assets of those who caused it, let us take it down and secure the assets of everyone who can participate in this compensation process, because they have to participate because they have committed a crime or obtained property from a crime. Accordingly, the present proposal is a procedural proposal. It is a procedural proposal that there should not be a constitutional problem in this matter, since these procedural proposals can also be applied in the ongoing procedures, so that all brokerage firms which have committed a criminal offence and are currently under investigation. Accordingly, we would like to extend to more circles those whose assets we want to involve in the compensation circle. On the one hand, there is an organizational circle. All the organizations in which the crime was committed would like to include the assets of those companies, but not only the assets of these companies, but also any company in some form, whether in ownership form, subject to, over, co-ordination, could be connected to these companies. Therefore, the assets of these companies must also be part of the compensation, they must also be held down and closed. And we need to be able to use the property placed under the lock in the process of compensation later. There will also be a need for further legislative amendments in this regard. But we are not just talking about organisations, we are also talking about people, people who have been involved in the crime. There may be a wide variety of people who knew or should have known, or even committed, this crime, whose assets must also be placed under lock and key, and it must be ensured that people can receive their money from the money of these people and organisations as compensation for later. This is why it is important to extend the possibility of being placed under the lock to all persons who are entitled to representation, in addition to senior officials, as a special rule. In addition, there are cases where they simply withdraw wealth, simply withdraw it from the possibility of compensation, give it away or sell it cheaply to someone. The bill also seeks to address this situation. In retrospect, we would like to review, for one year from the initiation of the procedure, any contract or contract benefit which can guarantee the amount of compensation. There are several cases like this. Such is the case of giving gifts when a person simply gives away his wealth and then spreads his hand. That is also included in this bill. But there are also more clever solutions when a noticeable disproportionate contract is concluded, so it is not concluded at fair value. This bill also covers this, and we would also like to include this property in the scope of compensation. All in all, we are therefore talking about a bill, a bill which, to the greatest extent possible, involves persons affected by a broker scandal who, in some way, knew or might have done something about these crimes, will be subject to the property of those persons, ensuring that these funds can be used for compensation and compensation. I hope that everyone in this Parliament, every Member of Parliament, will support this initiative, because we believe that this is in the interests of the people who have suffered damage over the past few years because of the abuse of brokers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And if there's nothing to hold, then what are you doing?]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-30-238	Thank you very much for your speech. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, you have 10 minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. It says yes. I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-30-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government's primary objective is to ensure the stability of the financial system. This is well illustrated by the steps taken since 2010 in relation to the financial and banking system, which created the conditions for the country to finally get rid of the consequences of decades of financial corruption. In the spirit of fighting corruption, the adoption of the bill before us will enable the criminal assets to be closed [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why, not so far?]] , which thus allows full private assets to be included in the compensation after the liability of the entities and persons concerned has been established and the available lock-in manager guarantees the proper management of the property during the period of lock-down. I wish to stress that it is, of course, the duty of the judiciary to establish criminal liability. It is the task of the Parliament to establish legal provisions that may be missing or sufficiently clear in order to make the compensation for the damage caused more effective. One of the elements of the bill, presented by the Member of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, on the security of property for the victims of broker scandals, is to ensure that the assets of organisations engaged in financial activities and of all persons and entities benefiting from or related to the crime can be effectively secured as soon as possible. To this end, the bill amends and complements the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act concerning the closure of proceedings. In our existing legal order, the detention order in criminal proceedings is carried out by forensic executives on the basis of the rules of judicial enforcement, their responsibility is to ensure that the civil rights claims relating to the crime are not met later by the withdrawal of property. This bill also aims to amend the law on judicial enforcement. On this basis, it will be possible to ensure that the property is preserved in order to preserve the value of the property and to provide an adequate basis for compensation for the damage caused by the offence, even after a final determination of criminal liability, in proceedings involving a broker's scandal and a similar offence. The government supports the bill because it is committed to the full return of victims of crime, so I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-30-240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee met this afternoon. The Committee's position will now be presented, with a total of 6 minutes available. First, I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman. [[19.00]]
u2015-03-30-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Today, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4029. The draft law before the House on the security of property for the victims of the broker scandal, which was submitted by the Committee unanimously, presented an amendment and a summary report. The main purpose of the bill, as can be heard from my fellow Member Tuzson's presentation, was to ensure that the groups of companies involved in the broker scandal, fraudulent brokers, as well as the managers, owners, supervisory board members and certain auditors of their company could not hide their assets or take responsibility for the damage they have caused. The summary amendment, which received unanimous support in the committee, contains its own motion. The proposed amendment clearly defines the criminal offences that have led to criminal proceedings in which cases other than the general rules for locking should be applied. The amending proposal clarifies that Article 1 of the bill provides that: Section 2 (a) to (d) of the Act on Criminal Procedure is closed for the holding of the assets of entities carrying out activities under points (a) to (d) of paragraph 2 of the Act on Criminal Procedure and of persons defined in paragraph 5 of the Act on Criminal Procedure. § 2 may take place in the absence of the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article. Lockdown may be imposed on assets acquired or replaced by assets closed under paragraphs 2 to 6 in one year prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings or judicial proceedings on which criminal proceedings are based. As mentioned in the Legislative Committee in addition to opposition and pro-government coordination, it is important to point out in this one year that in this case the time of the offence may be governed. The amending proposal clarifies that the law ensures the assets of the brokerage companies and the managers of the related companies that can be used for compensation, thus achieving the objective of the bill, i.e. to help the victims affected by the brokerage scandal as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, the Members who have made themselves known in writing will take the floor. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence, Fidesz.
u2015-03-30-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe that my words as rapporteur were quite detailed with regard to the legislation, so I do not wish to take this opportunity now, and I would like to express my position in the debate if necessary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-244	Thank you very much, Congressman Tuzson. Then I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2015-03-30-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to advance immediately that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the bill. Although this does not mean accepting the situation that you have just outlined here as a rapporteur or even as a government position to resolve this matter. This bill does not solve this case, and it is not about how the Quaestor victims will get their money invested, it is about the fact that the people involved in the crime are extended, their assets will be closed until the end of criminal proceedings. And obviously, as Mr. Attorney General said, it will be a long period, and at the end of that, it will be decided what amount these assets, which are found with the perpetrators, represent; and this could actually result in an income from the state, because the bill itself does not provide for how this amount will be transferred to the victims of Quaestor. It was very interesting to hear from Congressman Tuzson how concerned he is about constitutionality, it is very interesting that the Fidesz fraction so far has not been so disturbed by retrospective legislation. There's a procedural bill here, but like I said, it doesn't answer a lot of questions. It does not answer the question of how state institutions, ministries, state firms held public money at brokerage firms. It doesn't answer how it could have happened that despite the explicit ban on property law, an offshore company was contracted. It doesn't answer how it can happen that, at the Prime Minister's order, they take money out of these companies, if they act in their own interest, while there's a lot of time and investors have no information, they don't know what's going on with their investments, there's already a Prime Minister's order, when even small investors don't know that their investment is in danger at all. To this day, we have not been answered, and this bill does not provide an answer. They're talking about a more stringent control system. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2009 there was a law under which financial institutions, including brokerage firms, had to report daily to the supervisory body, which had previously been the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, and there was a merger in your effective contribution, didn't it? And in these few years, while this process has taken place, you have sent the experts, in these one or two years almost no surveillance action has been taken. However, I would like to draw Mr Tuzson's attention to the fact that Quaestor had control and imagine that, not under the socialist government, but in 2013, there was a fully comprehensive control at Quaestor; and as far as we know, at the beginning of 2015 the Magyar Nemzeti Bank was at this brokerage company, as the information shows that this company wanted to become a bank, and the Hungarian National Bank has examined and examined the necessary information. And yet he did not take any action, as you said, because of this new system that you set up, that the case was revealed; that is not the case at Quaestor, that is absolutely not the case, that is, where it is a prime minister's intuition, and that it is a pseudonym that upsets the pot, so to speak, which later turned out to be no bankruptcy. We don't even know what that commissioner from the National Bank did to Quaestor, and the clients are just confronted with going to Quaestor's offices and saying they don't get any money. Where the government has access to its money, and who knows who else is Fidesz's nearby businesses, entrepreneurs, or even government people who, based on this information, have access to their own investments. So I would like to point out once again that the National Bank of Hungary has committed a very serious failure, if, on the basis of the daily reports, they have not launched any investigation, as they should have seen that Quaestor, unlike the permission, has started to issue a total bond of HUF 220 billion, which should have been published both in the KELER system and in the Hungarian National Bank. If it did not appear, then the problem is that the control-supervisory system does not work, if it has appeared and it has not been noticed, then I think that it has a clear responsibility for the Hungarian National Bank that this case has come to this point. In fact, the damage caused by administrative powers arises and arises, which the Hungarian National Bank may have failed to do. Obviously, we'll be waiting for answers to our questions. So once again, the bill will be supported by the Socialist Party faction, but we have tabled an amendment which you have not accepted in the Legislative Committee, which was about getting the amount that is flowing directly to the victims, because, as the rapporteur said, this is their goal; while the representative of the government is talking about civil rights. [[19.10]] You said, if I remember correctly, that it would be necessary to ensure a civil claim in order to put this property under lock, and that Congressman Tuzson spoke of the need to compensate customers. The two are not closely linked, because, at the end of criminal proceedings, if liability takes place, civil rights needs can be met, which means long years. And our proposal was for the government or even the National Bank to advance it, if it had already failed in this custody procedure, to advance it, to give people access to the money, and then the state to collect it on the criminals who stole this money. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-30-246	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-30-247	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is to ensure that brokers and brokers, as well as managers, owners, supervisory board members and auditors of the companies concerned, are unable to hide their assets or take responsibility for the damage they cause. On the basis of the submission, the contracts concluded after the start and discovery of the series of fraud should also be reviewed, whether in respect of private or corporate property. The bill also provides that if the independent Hungarian court considers that a contract was intended to save the property, the property in question may be closed. In order to ensure that the blocked property is used for compensation, it is necessary to appoint a State Account Holder. The prosecution will initiate the lockdown in the cases listed in the bill, and the court may order it. In all cases, the blocked property must be used to compensate the victims of brokerage scandals. Ladies and Gentlemen, The compensation for Buda-Cash's clients seems to be going well. The OBA will soon be over to compensate for small investments, and investors will be able to claim their losses from BEVA. The D.A. announced the other day that we were able to secure HUF 68 billion worth of assets in the Buda-Cash case, so there is hope that this money can also be used for compensation. The investigation was launched at Buda-Cash on 23 February 2015, and suspect interviews and detention were already carried out on 9 March 2015, in particular on the basis of the crime of fraud causing material damage and the substantiated suspicion of other crimes. From the outset, the investigation was conducted under increased prosecutor's supervision, and then the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office set up a three-professor case processing group. Yesterday, Csaba Tarsoly, the owner of Quaestor, was arrested, and two others were questioned as suspects for the crime of fraud. Quaestor started an investigation on 11 March 2015. The compensation for the victims of Quaestor has not yet started because of the complex legal situation surrounding fictitious bonds. The MNB announced last Tuesday that the Central Bank will initiate the Investor Protection Fund to pay compensation to victims with a fictitious obligation at Quaestor. Ladies and gentlemen, It was right that after the fall of the first brokerage company, the government took the steps to save people's money. The brokerage agency has demonstrated that there is a lack of a modern treasury system in Hungary that would ensure the parking of public funds, including municipal funds, with appropriate conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, By blocking the assets of those responsible, the bill gives victims a chance to get their money back or some of it back. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2015-03-30-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, What can be said above all about this bill and the laws in general is that every law is worth as much as it is enforced. It is important to stress this in this case because now the petitioner of the law argued in the press that the legislative work of the government in the context of the brokerage scandal has never been seen. However, I am asking you, fellow Members, whether the opportunities given by Hungarian criminal law legislation have been exploited by the government coalition. Did you have the opportunity to make me count? Sure. Have you been cleared? Hardly. I was just talking today about the fact that the Key Price case is now going on for the 12th year without condemning the unsubs, the money doesn't get by, most of it disappears, no accounting actually takes place. So far, there have been provisions in the Criminal Code such as lockdown or confiscation; they have not taken advantage of it, these opportunities have not been taken against the perpetrators, and I fear that it is again a matter of creating a legal framework that will not be filled with content. In the event that Quaestor had a guarantee of HUF 16.9 billion at the time of socialist governments, there was no comprehensive investigation of the activities of the brokerage house by either the socialist governments or the Fidesz, they did not look at the person who had taken an uncovered guarantee, did not hold anyone responsible, and covered this matter up. The legal framework would have given us the opportunity to be accounted for in this case as well; it did not actually happen. It is very important to address the issue of auditors here, given that the proposal before us also regulates the liability of auditors. Another case, another bank scandal, the Postabank case. How'd that work out for you? The Hungarian State suffered damage of HUF 171 billion when the lawyers acting on behalf of the Hungarian State forgot the time limit for appeal, forgot to submit the action on behalf of the Hungarian State, so the action was lost and voided. What did the Orbán government do to get this pot back 171 billion forints of public money and account for those who did it? The answer is very short: you did nothing to make this happen. No accountability, no unsubs, no money. If I ask you whether in the Postabank case it was possible for those responsible to be held accountable and served their sentence under the Criminal Code, then it can be said that yes, the legislation at that time, otherwise weak, provided for the possibility of being cleared. It didn't happen. It didn't happen! It is important to see that, when the Prime Minister spoke today about Thursday - I repeat, Thursday - what kind of Hungarian budgetary bodies were involved in the activities of the broker companies now falling in, and the banks associated with them, what public money could still remain in the register, it is worth thinking about how much of a mess it can be in the public sector that Fidesz is currently leading, if by Thursday morning it is necessary to think about what kind of public institutions and how much they are still involved in the broker scandal. This is interesting because, in the case of normal public finances, the state has a daily statement of what happens to public finances, conducts transparent farming, and, as the national wealth law states, manages the national wealth responsibly. In this case, it is hardly possible to talk about it, even by Thursday, if they are investigating what kind of money is lost in Buda-Cash. [[19.20]] It is also an interesting question, and of course, to be able to answer how it could have happened that there was a HUF 150 billion fictitious bond issue at Quaestor so that no one would notice it. They were so pleased with the work of the leader of the PSZF, Károly Szász, that, while three years of the five-year surveillance cycle went under his leadership, he was even decorated on 15 March because, I quote, he led the PSZF at such a high level that he deserved the medal. It is also interesting to find out how the mess mentioned just now manifests itself. The state gives its money to a brokerage house, and the brokerage house, unlike today's communication, is trading the state's money in open capital market operations. When the Secretary of State says here in the answer that when the state gets its money back, there is no damage to it, no change has been made, he is not telling the truth in a noble simplicity. If it's true that they put government bonds in Buda-Cash, then why did they get cash back, or why did they get cash back? Because, in open capital market operations, the government's government bond is practically on its feet, and at present we can be glad that the Hungarian state has been able to recover any money at all, but unfortunately, that many small investors will not be able to do so. Parking public funds will not be solved by the bill before us. Think about what happened in this case, a crooked brokerage house gets the taxpayers' money, farm it as it pleases, and the state doesn't even have the ability to, say, place the funds as buffers in the Treasury account, and then draw them down from there, and in this way, to keep the state's assets completely secure. That's all, but not the responsible management of state assets. Moreover, this proposal does not offer any solution to these challenges, nor does it provide any answer to these challenges. In itself, of course, because it is a very small step forward, Jobbik will support this proposal, but we also need to see that it should be done here with boots that go seven miles, ladies and gentlemen, not with such steps, and much more transparent regulation on the financial markets, including financial supervision, which they have now failed to do. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2015-03-30-251	I'd love to talk, but isn't it Andrew's turn?
u2015-03-30-252	I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. That was the order.
u2015-03-30-253	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Unfortunately, the proposal that lies before us is not what it seems. This proposal does not serve what is in its title; this proposal will not help the 28,000 people who have lost their money in the last few weeks. The whole proposal is a diversion, a bluff, because the current laws, the Btk. and the law on implementation will allow the actions that this proposal is now proposing to take in the last few weeks in this case. What happened is much more complicated than this, and this proposal does not answer the extraordinary questions as to whether the government will, the executive will, the prosecutor's will, the control will at the Hungarian National Bank; what it has done in recent weeks, what it has done in recent years, how this situation could have developed at all. I think that, in this sense, this law is not moving forward at all, and, as many of my fellow opposition Members have already said here, there are a lot of issues ahead of us that this issue does not solve. I think that in order to make a meaningful move forward and not to have such cases in Hungary in the longer term, many questions need to be clarified. It must be clarified how money of this size can move, how it can disappear, where this money is, where this money is now, whether this money is still in Hungary, for example, whether this money is available in order to make amends for people. What is the responsibility of PSZF today, the Hungarian National Bank, has been told by several people about the amazing shortcomings that can be assumed in their work. Big questions can be asked about the investigating authority. In recent weeks, we've had such bizarre steps, sales, buy-backs, withdrawals that are absolutely shocking, it's completely incomprehensible why the D.A. didn't take action when they had the chance. We should know what kind of inside information the government had, how it could be that ministries had access to the money and that private individuals had lost their assets. We need to know what commissions and other benefits Quaestor gave us [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and other fraud brokerage companies of this type. I think that we need to find the real people responsible, and then we will have access to the legislation that we believe will make the financial market safer in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-254	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next announced speaker was Mr László Szakács, MSZP.
u2015-03-30-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What bothers me most about this matter is that we are hearing exactly what we are hearing here in this House, because if everyone makes a press statement, everyone in the press is going to say the words that can be quoted, and the labels that can be quoted are going to be put on everyone. You're still looking for a solution, not a solution, but a guilty person, or at least a point of view. I say this by saying that my colleague Bertalan Tóth has already told you that we are going to vote on this, we are going to support this, do their job, finally do it because there have been delays here. There was no bankruptcy on 9 March, and I was sitting here at the meeting of the Economic Commission, where Vice President Windisch told us with a broad eye that the Quaestor had failed, and he didn't look into it, and neither did I, nor did everyone, that if the vice president of the MNB said that a brokerage company was bankrupt and that a press release had been published, they would do it. It turns out that 10 days later, ten days later, it still doesn't appear in the Gazette, they're still just launching procedures. Until then, criminal reports could have been made, and winding up proceedings could have been initiated to ensure that this property could otherwise be kept precisely, since it would then have been a cover-up and the rest. But I say, aside from this type of lawyering and putting aside the fact that you've been delaying to act, now you're trying to fix with all your efforts the time we've suffered - who knows who it was good for? - and yet I say that, of course, we will support you in this. What has to be said is that this will not solve much for the future, let's face it. We see that this is a one-time thing, we create a general rule for a one-time thing, everyone understands. I, too, believe that constitutionalism would not be caught here, if this were to have a retroactive effect, so that it would not be resolved like the municipalities in the Buda-Cash case, that they had received money, that they had a great csinnadatta, that there was a huge press for this, and then it appeared in the Gazette, that they should return it until July, because it was a loan. So the Hungarian state is the only one here who would be able to stand up to small investors and wait for the amount of money that he could then, one way or another, recover from lockdowns, confiscations, any criminal acts or anything. For some reason, you're basically not willing to do this, which I still don't understand. I think you'd be better off, but most importantly, small investors would be better off, but let's go through this Jacob's sloth that you've supported. I'd like to put one thing aside: don't let this get to the point that they're tightening up the supervision of brokerage companies so much, they're tightening up their operations so that there's gonna be a government-reliable company - like casinos that can be given to your friends. Don't be like that. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer, LMP. [[19.30]]
u2015-03-30-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would recommend to my fellow chef that you not paint the devil on the wall of the house, because it will still appear. You may have just given an idea to our fellow Member, Mr Tuzson, who will present a motion for the establishment of national brokerage houses next week, with a derogation from house rules. I don't think he's in need of ideas like that. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, we see that there is a legislative imperative in this crisis. This is precisely why the LMP faction voted for a derogation from the house rule, since it is necessary for the legislator to take action in the current situation. However, this method is an inappropriate tool, which you have chosen; as the congresswoman has said, it is another typical fidesz diversion operation. This law will not give the Quaestor-damaged and other Hungarian broker-damaged citizens money. But let's get in line. After the bankruptcy of the second broken brokerage house, Buda-Cash, the public prosecutor's office itself published a press release, it was discovered that the funds seized under the current rules were sufficient, at least on the basis of the current information of the investigation, to compensate for the damage. That's what the D.A. said. So if you're just looking at Buda-Cash, there's no need for this bill. In the case of Quaestor, however, it really arises whether this company has any assets at all. We already know that Csaba Tarsoly probably doesn't have any assets. And it also occurs to me that in a type of crime, when the investigating authority catches a whiff of smell, but from the moment the investigation starts, to the point that someone is personally suspected, it's gonna take longer to ask if they're gonna have a foothold for the property they once had. The fact is that this bill does not respond to this problem, even if that is your intention. The Habony works have produced a great political product, but the only thing this political product is unsuitable for is for the Quaestor victims to be on their money. And one more thing: this diversionary operation does not undo the omission which, at least since 25 February, has been the responsibility of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Prime Minister. First of all, he owes an account to Viktor Orbán, who in 2010 declared war on the pulpit to the speculative capital as to why he has allowed public-owned companies and state-owned organizations to invest their money in brokerage houses for the fifth year. Why would a prime minister who declared war on speculative capital allow this? And one more thing: if the Prime Minister is aware that there is a problem, because he is obviously aware of this, it is not certain that from Csaba Tarsoly's letter, the devil may know it, but something the Prime Minister knew, because you said here a few hours ago that you ordered the state organizations to keep their assets no longer than the Quaestor. That wasn't the Prime Minister's job. The Prime Minister's job was to file a complaint, use his signature duty, and report to the custody, the central bank, that there is a problem. He didn't do that. This proposal is not suitable for achieving the desired objective for several reasons. On the one hand, as we can see, there are already billionaires or billionaires who have turned out to have nothing. And we also know that it is an ideal saying, that a man who has nothing is worth so much. And how come these big brokerage owners don't have anything anymore? I'm sure this proposal won't shake more properties from Csaba Tarsoly than it does today. Well, that's because the offshore coalition has been in operation for 25 years. For 25 years, you and your socialist accomplices have tolerated offshore knights in this country. Fidesz has swept all our proposals off the table, which has been aimed at sweeping the offshore knights from Hungary for the past five years. They also wiped out our proposal not to allow state, municipal organizations to engage in business relations with offshore companies. Our proposal has been swept away so that companies with offshore backgrounds may not occur in various public procurement or otherwise state-owned municipal property tenders. Today, this proposal is not suitable for achieving the desired goal, because this wealth has long been saved by your offshore knights to various tax havens. The fact is, we will not be able to handle this with this proposal. Here is the responsibility of the central bank. The central bank also carries out financial supervision, but currently the central bank does not have a supervisory board. There hasn't been a supervisory board in a year, and ever since there was no supervisory board, there's been a scandal. If supervision and the central bank are consolidated, a supervisory board should also be responsible for the supervision of financial supervision. I mean, it's clear that this failure could have happened, and it's got a hard-core state responsibility. And, of course, there is a need for the committee of inquiry that LMP initiated today from 97, so since the entry into force of the First Capital Markets Act, people are asking questions. How is it that Attila Kulcsár practically gets away with the oblivious scandal that was also a broker scandal in 2003? And what we see from the series of broker scandals - Baumag, Lupis Broker House, and now these scandals - is that the little people suck well, lose their savings, and let the big fish run away, or give them quite symbolic punishments. This proposal is not suitable for achieving the desired objective because you say in this bill that the saved property can be caught after the initiation of criminal proceedings, or may go back another year. Well, I beg you, if someone is knowingly committing capital investment fraud, a pyramid game for, say, five years, then let's just assume that a criminal is smart enough not to start saving the property when it's hot under his feet! The reason why victims will not get their money under this law is because you, by this law, are actually giving a passport to criminals, because those who started a pyramid game five years ago or an investment fraud have long since saved the property. It should also be said that the problem is far deeper than this, and the problem is not in fact criminal, non-criminal procedural; it is a civil and civil litigation problem, that for 25 years the basic experience of the simple entrepreneur in Hungary is that if he has a greater amount of claim that he wishes to enforce in a lawsuit and, let's say, he has won the first degree, he can reasonably expect that, by the time the final judgment is in his hands, the defendant has long since evacuated his company. This is what the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government should be dealing with! And it is also about the fact that what could, by the way, be a dogmatic justification for my fellow Member Tuzson's proposal, is likely to be summarised as a type of action where it is committed in farming, supposedly affecting a large number of people, causing great harm to a large number of people, and, thirdly, it can be assumed that there is a long time between detection and suspicion. But this is not just in the financial sector. For example, what about the victims of the Colontar mud spill? There was a crime, environmental damage, damage to nature. Or what about those who, say, remove poisoned foods from the shelves of a large trade chain? I think we act constitutionally if we apply similar rules to similar situations of life. The present proposal provides more protection for those who are, say, victims of capital investment fraud than for those who are victims of an environmental disaster or food damage. We have proposed that people around the Colontars or those who do not give to God in similar disasters receive the same protection as victims of various financial maneuvers. And it should also be said that in these acts there is always, as is the case now, a very high level of failure of officials. I ask you, once an official violates his official duty, let's say, in the context of an investment fraud, why can't the official's assets be involved in this. Why is it that the assets of an auditor can be placed under lockdown, whether or not the suspicion has been disclosed to him, but the assets of a member of the government or the assets of a central bank manager, who, in the event of a breach of his duties, has helped to increase the damage, cannot be closed? Finally, I would like to talk about the proposal that I tabled with my fellow opposition Members. There's a lockdown here where the suspects haven't been told yet. It is an essential constitutional guarantee that at least in this case there is a final frontier. We proposed 120 days, and the investigation was closed. If by then no suspicion has been made, then I think that this burden must be borne by the state. Thank you very much. [[19.40]]
u2015-03-30-258	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Tuzson Bence, within a 10-minute time frame.
u2015-03-30-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Several questions were raised by the opposition during the debate. It is good to clarify what this bill is primarily about, what this bill is for, and a little bit about civil law, because I have seen a little confusion among my fellow Members here, what is good, what are civil law instruments, what are procedural issues, how can the state keep its money, for example. This legislation is primarily about catching the fleeing fortune, isn't it? It is about how, if there is a fortune available or available in some form and they try to make it disappear in some form, it can be caught in such a way that it can be used for compensation later on. Here I would like to put an end to the issue that has been raised here, which has been the case against civil rights and damages. If we are talking about the institution of civil law, civil law is also a claim for damages. The question in this regard is what procedure can be applied. This can be enforced, on the one hand, in criminal proceedings and, on the other hand, in civil proceedings under the rules of civil law. The purpose of this legislation is therefore to ensure opportunities that are already in civil law today when the claim for damages can be enforced, but there is no basis for that. The foundation must be established. There was a question here about the state's assets, how the state kept it and how it could keep its money. Well, my fellow Members, you know perfectly well that the state keeps its money in sovereign debt, and the sovereign debt that is in some sort of account in a technical way doesn't matter what account it is, it belongs to the person whose name it is. So, if someone has a sovereign debt and has a sovereign debt account, that doesn't include the assets of the brokerage company on which this account is held. It's a separate asset. We need to reassure anyone in any brokerage company, be it Buda-Cash, or Quaestor, or any brokerage company, to keep money in sovereign debt on a government bank account, this money is safe, even if it's not available right now because of suspension. But you can request the release of this, and once you are freed, you will obtain it, because it does not belong to the Quaestor's fortune in any form. So if you created this sovereign debt and you have this sovereign debt, you will get your sovereign debt. That is the essence of this in the sovereign debt trade. And it's no coincidence that the state can only keep its money in sovereign debt. In the past, it was not possible to hold such an account in the Treasury, only in so-called brokerage companies, acquiring these sovereign debt on the secondary market. Now there is a new rule, and now you can keep accounts like this at the Treasury. So it is no coincidence that the responsible government decides in such a case that all government debt is worth managing with the State. This is a logical, good decision, putting the state's values to safety in the long term, creating a clear position with regard to the state. Of course, it is not easy to uncover all the state's assets, since there are also loans and placements. We were just talking about Quaestor receiving HUF 17 billion as a uncovered loan during socialist governments. It's also the state's property, and it has to be recovered in some form. This should also be explored and reviewed. Creating the damage fund is the essence of this legislation. It is necessary to create an appropriate basis for damage, since it is important that all funds can be included in the compensation in the course of the procedure. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And yes, this legislation serves this purpose, that is the primary purpose of this. Of course, it is possible to raise the question of how to touch the rules of lockdown in general, how to extend this to other criminal aspects, other cases that may be wider, not necessarily relate to the financial market. Of course, this will also be possible. I also draw the attention of the fellow Members that we are preparing the Criminal Procedure Act, we are in the process of preparing it, and the Minister of Justice has also held a consultation with the representatives of the political parties, where the political parties, by the way, all parties, opposition parties, have declared their satisfaction that such a conciliation process has finally started in their interpretation, and they are able to comment on this issue. These issues, when we want to settle a relationship in general, will be resolved in this case, within the framework of this legislation. Returning to this legislation, therefore, the primary purpose of the legislation is to take the escape money of brokers, which can be used for compensation and compensation, precisely so that the process of compensation can be launched later. It can be started and speeded up. We are seeking, and we will also present a bill in this regard, which will reasonably ensure that this amount can be used in the process of compensation before the criminal proceedings are completed. So a package of legislation that has taken the money on the one hand, does not allow it to be stolen, disposed of, exported or taken anywhere; it is also true retroactively, can be reached back for a year in the framework of these contracts or in the examination of these contracts; and for the future, we must ensure that such a thing does not occur; and when compensation is started, people can be paid in a well-defined order, and that money can be returned to people. Indeed, there is a case of Buda-Cash, when at the moment it looks as if 68 billion forints could have been closed and the amount of damage would be smaller. But, dear fellow Members, this is the accounting amount, the accounting value. We don't know how to make this money. But we know that it happens regularly that in reality they are worth much less than the book value. You can't let that happen. That is why we need to extend the compensation, the liability, grab everyone's money, and not sit back in this case, but step up to bring all the money together in order to pay people's rightful money. We're talking about people's rightful money because these people are mostly fooled. He was tricked by gangs of criminals. Another question is how the situation may have been that there was a legislative environment at a time when some public authorities did not have to comply with their audit obligations. There is a need to further strengthen control, control obligations, strengthen those powers, see if additional tools are needed to strengthen these institutions. In the event that we achieve this, we can compensate everyone who can be in this framework, we can use the full amount, the total amount that was stolen by the individual brokers and the people who are collaborating with them. This can be put together as a sum, and this can be used in the process of compensation. That is our goal, and then we use this amount to compensate as many people as possible. That is the aim, and I hope that we can count on everyone's support in this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-30-260	Thank you, Congressman Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have a joint debate on the proposal for the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Műjump, Műlúk and Open Water Championships in Budapest. Independent motion by Fidesz MEPs Erik Bánki and Gergely Gulyás T/4113. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the House Rules adopted, the opening speech and the closing address will be held in 20 minutes, 5 minutes for the government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 10 minutes for the political groups' speeches, 3 minutes for the independent Members' speeches. [[19.50]] Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the rapporteur on the agenda, I would like to draw attention to the fact that he has a total time frame of 20 minutes to present the opening speech and the closing word. You have the floor, Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2015-03-30-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank all the political groups in this Parliament for allowing us to start and close the parliamentary debate on this important bill today, and tomorrow we can adopt the bill with a final vote. I think that the 2017 World Championship is indeed a national issue, an important issue, an excellent opportunity for Hungary, which also requires the parliamentary parties to agree on this issue, because Hungary's prestige, the country's effectiveness, its assessment of its performance at international level, and the sports value of the event itself, its national economic significance, justify having a five-party consensus in this. The main point of the bill is that, after Hungary won the 2021 World Championship, it was prepared to organize this World Championship accordingly, while there was an opportunity to withdraw from the 2017 World Championship Director, which could bring this World Championship four years ahead, and Hungary wanted to take advantage of this opportunity. The Hungarian Swimming Association has applied for the settlement of this 2017 World Championship, which we have won in front of several other countries. This gives us an excellent and excellent opportunity, but it is also a very serious responsibility, since we have only two years to organise the World Cup. During this time, we have to build all the objects necessary for these seven disciplines to organize the world championship competition, and we have to provide all the opportunities that can guarantee a high level of competition. What are we talking about? The World Championship is practically one of the four largest sporting events in the world. I think everyone here also knows that it is the Olympics, the Olympics that take place every four years, which are the most prestigious sporting event that most contestants participate in, and which has the highest ratings around the world, the second biggest event in this ranking, and the third place in the international ranking of world championships, sports events, the athletic World Championship and the World Swimming Championship. Hungary has never hosted such an event in its history; so not only is it a sporting event, but there has never been such an event or event in Hungary's history. That is why I think that we are facing a very serious challenge, but we have also been given a huge opportunity to prove to the world that Hungary is able to host an event of this quality through cooperation, based on the capacity of the Hungarian people. Let's see in the numbers what we can expect from this world championship. About 250,000 people will be on the spot, there is a special event of the World Championship, which is the giant tower jump, which will take place somewhere, not yet exactly on the Danube coast, on the section between the Margaret Bridge and the Chain Bridge, with hundreds of thousands of viewers. This is a unique event and an event that could attract tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of viewers at every previous World Championship. More than four and a half billion viewers are expected to follow the events of the World Championship around the world in 16 days, which is an opportunity for Hungary to show Hungary whose advertising value is invaluable. If we look at where and to what extent broadcasts from the World Cup, television broadcasts, online coverages, written press material appear in the world, then again we can say that the marketing value of such a huge event can be virtually barely expressed in numbers. Obviously, such studies will be carried out due to the shortness of time, and these studies are still ongoing by 2021, but I am quite certain that the cost of directing the previous world championships, the European Championships, will be fully reimbursed in the tourism marketing itself. I do not know if my fellow Members know, but those who monitor sports events surely know that almost at the same time as the adult World Championship, starting from the last three days, a Masters World Championship will also begin, which will attract about 15,000 contestants to Hungary, and will mean about 45-50 thousand guests to us, along with the drivers of the contestants. So once we take the World Championship, where the contestants of 208 countries will take part, with about 3,000 contestants, 2 thousand escorts, so about 5,000 people, the viewers who arrive here, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people, and then another Masters Tournament, which will mean the journey of about 40-50 thousand people to Hungary. So I think that, if you look at the numbers, investment is obviously a serious expense. There are plans that think about sustainable facilities. Marcel Ferencz dreamed of plans, buildings with which I think - like the Palace of Arts - we will be proud to stand before the whole world, and there will be a floating and water polo Olympic centre that will represent a very serious competition workshop and an excellent competitive opportunity for Hungarian swimming and Hungarian water polo sports. I do not know if my fellow Members know when the last investment of this magnitude occurred in Hungary, so when a swimming pool was built in Hungary, where international competitions can be organised. This was the last time, ladies and gentlemen, it was 1930, so it was quite a long time ago when the Alfréd Boat Swimming Pool was built on Margaret Island. So the investment itself, if I may use such an indicator, has historical significance, and if we look at the effectiveness of the past decades of the two sports just mentioned, the results of today's days and the expected future performance, then I think they deserve to be enriched with such a swimming pool, such a sports complex. And not only will competition sports be enriched, honourable fellow Members, but leisure sports will also be enriched with a very serious set of facilities, as these swimming pools, the warm-up swimming pools, the part of the swimming pool will not only be used by water polo players and swimmers in training, not only will it be a center for re-education, but also will be available to all Hungarian citizens through recreational sports, and will have a special atmosphere where contestants, the best in the world and amateurs and hobby swimmers will meet. So I think that this investment will also be of great importance for a healthy lifestyle education. So the law before us, ladies and gentlemen, is intended to ensure that this World Championship can take place in the remaining about two years, that improvements can be made that are at least expected during negotiations with the International Swimming Alliance, and that this can be achieved at such a level that all Hungarians can be proud of. I think that if this five-party consensus, this cooperation between parties for the sake of a national cause, then all Hungarian citizens, all politicians sitting among us, will be proud of the performance that Hungary can achieve with this World Championship. [[20.00]] So I ask my fellow Members to support this bill. We, the petitioners of the bill, guarantee that all issues relating to development will be as public as possible. The Commissioner will also strive, and he has also expressed this at the five-party consultation, to keep in constant contact with the parliamentary parties on all matters. I think that the final assembly of the bill itself, the handling of the amendments made by my fellow opposition Members, also proves that we not only want to ensure political independence and national cooperation for all parliamentary parties at the level of words, but we really believe that such a significant event requires such a level and level of cooperation. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So I would ask you to do so if you have any comments later on on on the bill. The Legislative Committee accepted the amendment in which we sought to deal with all opposition issues. If any more regulatory issues remain that my fellow Members consider important, they can still be dealt with. It would be very important to adopt this bill and to stop the final vote tomorrow so that work, investment preparation and organisational work can start as soon as possible. Thank you very much for listening, and I would like your support.
u2015-03-30-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you have nine minutes and 15 seconds to say the closing word. I now give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State János Fónagy within a five-minute timeframe.
u2015-03-30-263	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government welcomes the agreement on this important issue. We welcome the intention of the parliamentary parties to cooperate. Let me mention in this row Budapest XIII. the municipality and mayor of the district, whose cooperation is also important for the successful implementation of the case because of the future location. The Government supports the proposal, together with the summarised amendments, and we ask that the Parliament adopt this tomorrow. We are also convinced that, of course, there is still a lot of work to be done on this, including possible details of the regulation, but the start of meaningful work is extremely important for all of us, so I ask you to support the proposal with your vote tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-30-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. A total of 6 minutes is available for this. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-30-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At today's meeting, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4113 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. Bill No. 1. According to the decision of the International Swimming Association, FINA, Budapest will host the 2017 World Water Championship, which will be the largest international sporting event in the history of the country. Our country had previously won the right to settle the 2021 water vb, but four years earlier, according to FINA's request, the best swimmers in the world will be able to visit Budapest in 2017, I would add, of course, water polo, diving and artificial swimmers. Due to the short time available for preparation, a broad cooperation is needed in order to successfully conduct the event, which is expected to set up nearly 2,500 athletes. In the context of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships, which will take place in 2017 in Budapest, the proposal provides the opportunity to make the necessary investments within less than two years. I would like to refer to the comments made at today's meeting of the Legislative Committee and to the rapporteur's opinion, when I stress the importance of this, which is now before us, the importance of the bill. My colleague Erik Bánki, one of the authors and authors of the bill, received one of the largest sports events in the world with the password of Hungary, and that this is the opportunity the country has to live with. My fellow Member, I agree with this opinion. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, said at the meeting of the Legislative Committee that he saw the proposal as an unusual negotiation, because there is an appropriate reason and purpose for adopting the bill by consensus after it has been properly negotiated. The five-party consensus, as referred to by the speakers before me, came about as a result of a constructive discussion, and I think that the Olympic sports and the Olympic competitions that will be held in the framework of this world event in Hungary are based on traditions that are worth taking forward and to which it is worth giving consensus support. The Legislative Committee expressed its intention to amend technical and linguistic positioning, and then unanimously supported the proposal by 31 votes in favour. As a result of the five-party consultation, I am confident that a consensus proposal has been made and we expect the vote of the representatives of all parties in the final vote. In view of the short time ahead, I wish the participants an effective work, and I think that good decision-making can speed up work. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-30-266	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, the Members who have made themselves known in writing will take the floor. Erik Bánki announced his intention to speak in advance, Mr Fidesz. I'm asking you if you want to live with the speech. [[For signal:]] He indicates that he did not, since, as the author, I suppose, he made his point of view and opinion. Then I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2015-03-30-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, What Erik Bánki said is all true and almost justified why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this law. Hungary plays a prominent role in the world's sports life, there is no other country that has given so many Olympic champions and as many significant sporting events as our country's. Jobbik therefore considers it important and of particular importance that the country be able to organise more and more international sporting events on a rational basis, and indeed this is the way the World Water Championship is organised by FINA. We feel that this is an extremely important opportunity and a very important honour for the country to host this sporting event. We really felt during today, at 10:00 a.m., there was already a five-party meeting, and then we kept working on this bill before the House in the form that most of us can support, that it was indeed a constructive cooperation, which we feel may be covering the sentences that Mr.Orbán said that we should treat this world championship as a national matter, because we need to feel this possibility. On the other hand, on the subject of the law, allow me to mention one or two negatives, not about this law itself, but about what this rapid legislative process is now pointing out. The decision of the International Swimming Association - known as FINA - that the 2017 World Water Championship could be held by our country was relatively unexpected for all of us. Indeed, until such a prestigious and internationally outstanding, significant event is organised, there is a very short period of time, only a short two years. Indeed, the short time available for preparation justifies individual treatment in order to ensure the safe implementation of the planned investments. All of this is also covered by the justification of the bill before us. [[20.10]] After studying the bill, I concluded that it is necessary to adopt the bill before us because our current legal system does not allow us to take the necessary steps to organise an event of great importance for our country's international reputation and recognition. The bill provides for the removal of bureaucratic obstacles from the implementation of the necessary investments, excluding the planned investment from the scope of the rules and restrictions on other investments, such as investments by individual Hungarian businesses and private people. The proposal lists through pages which construction, fire control, water or public use rules do not apply to investment. It is proposed that the necessary contributions and authorisations should be granted by the competent authorities almost immediately, thus excluding the substantive assessment of the applications submitted to them and thus excluding the substantive procedure of the determining authorities. Deficiencies of the authority's decision-making and discretion, shortening administrative time limits to an unrealistic level, and partial exclusion of control rights, condemn virtually all those who would otherwise be responsible for the adequacy of a planned investment by virtue of the power of the legislation. A single person will be responsible for the investment included in the proposal, who is not bound by the majority of the rules applicable to everyone else in his activity; the proposal aims to make the investment practically a project above the Hungarian legal order in force. There would be no problem with this, however, if these procedures were to operate smoothly in Hungary and operate smoothly in other cases. But what we need to see is that this is an even greater contrast between this project and the projects that anyone should implement. And the question arises as to why it is necessary to exclude investment from so many rules. Well, because the time is short, and the Hungarian rules would not allow that. And is it really not possible to carry out the authorisation and procurement procedures for implementation in that time period? And we have to say, unfortunately, that there is not enough time for normal administration. If we consider the safe organisation of the World Championship, there would indeed be no time for this in a normal administration process. However, if our licensing and procurement procedures - and this points to all of this - are so complex and towed, then why not change them, or why not think about changing it at some point, so that not only for this one project can be smooth. Of course, there is no answer to these questions either in the bill or in the justification given by the authors. However, these questions are formulated in all Hungarian people who want to invest, build and do. I would like to refer to Prime Minister's statement in 2010 that Hungary is an obstacle course due to administrative mazes and rampant bureaucracy. Indeed, the situation has not changed since then, which is why it is now necessary for us Members of Parliament to make a decision on a specific matter. Our unique decision to remove bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of the planned investment by a spell does not solve the situation that Hungary remains an obstacle course for everyone else. System-level problems cannot be solved by individual decision, unprepared individual decisions only make the situation worse by feeding citizens the idea that the rules in force are for information only, they can practically be broken by a stroke of a pen, they can be considered null and void. This trend, in addition to being sad, is extremely damaging to the nation. Returning to the problem that the bill seeks to solve, it can be criticised for the fact that it does not contain any guarantee elements as to the possibilities and means available in the event of the investment being put in jeopardy, or how it can be verified by the implementation and by whom, but we have received a promise to do so, and it has also been said here that we have been able to make progress on this. Therefore, as far as the proposal is concerned, it can be concluded that the aim of ensuring the feasibility of the 2017 World Water Championship in Hungary is, in our view, unacceptable, but that this limitation of transparency, the total lack of control and guarantees, should be improved. But we can also change that, which is why Jobbik proposed a five-party settlement so that the opposition parties with the faction could delegate a specialist to the World Championship Organizing Committee, and that was accepted by the governing parties, and I said that this could be a guarantee. Indeed, we believe, as Prime Minister said, that the settlement of the 2017 World Championship can only be successful if it is treated as a common national matter and there is a consensus between the parliamentary parties. The Jobbik has proved that he is open to this cooperation. In addition to our critical comments, we will prove this with our vote tomorrow, so we will vote for the law, and I can say this in advance. But there's only going to be cooperation in this case if that's what you want, not in words, but in actions. We are still looking forward to the actions, and we really feel that today is a reason for confidence that we can really treat this as a national matter beyond politics, and indeed we can organise a World Championship in 2017 that will benefit the country, which will enhance the country's reputation, and it will be a world competition with a good atmosphere that will provide a basis for us to apply for other major world competitions later on. After all, there will be a very important world competition behind us, where we can prove that we are capable of directing, that we are fit to join forces on serious matters, and that Parliament can be characterized not only by disunity and debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the Right Party and the Government.]]
u2015-03-30-268	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-30-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us in connection with the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in 2017 in Budapest offers the opportunity to make the necessary investments for the event in less than two years. I would add that this decision in itself is also a huge success in sports diplomacy for Hungary, and a lot of people have had to do to make this decision real. In the area of the Dagály spa, it is necessary to build a 5 000-seat swimming pool that can be extended to 18 thousand with mobile bleachers. To this end, it is necessary to speed up administrative procedures. The law also provides for specific settlement arrangements in the field of investment, expropriation procedures and flood and fire protection. The law declares that contracts for investment or investment are of particular importance in the public interest. As a builder, the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Limited Company was designated, and in order to ensure a smooth transition, the law states that the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. as regards the investment, it shall be deemed to be the successor to the budget of the National Sport Centres which had previously been established as builders. In order to speed up public procurement procedures relating to investment, it will be possible under the law to apply as quickly as possible public procurement procedures in the context of the investment. For the same purpose, the law removes investment-related procurement procedures from the scope of the Government Decree on central control and licensing of public procurement. Other rules of the Hungarian legal system ensure the legality of public procurement procedures, but this solution will provide for several weeks' time limits for procurement. However, in order to ensure transparency and competition, the law provides that at least three tenderers are to be invited to tender in all cases and that the assessment criterion for tenders can only be the lowest remuneration. [[20.20]] In the interests of transparency, the law also provides that essential documents of public procurement procedures are public and accessible. The law lays down specific installation requirements for real estate located at the site of the establishment development. The establishment of different rules is justified because the organisation of the World Water Championship requires the construction of a specific structure for which the application of the general rules is in many ways inoperable and empowers the creation of specific legislation in which rules other than those laid down in the law on the protection of cultural heritage may be laid down. The reason for this is that the extremely tight pace of construction must be aligned with the interests of archaeological exploration. This objective can be achieved by means of government regulation ensuring sufficient flexibility. Dear House, The investment includes the establishment of a bleachers, which function as a temporary establishment and accommodates about 14,000 people, but which will only last for the duration of the World Championship, will be dismantled after the competition is held. Given the temporary nature of these bleachers, it is necessary to lay down specific rules for them, which should be based essentially on fire protection and disaster protection aspects. In view of this, the Act empowers the Minister for the Protection of Disasters to establish detailed rules for the establishment of the conditions. Given the temporary nature of this facility, the law provides that the general building rights requirements for the construction of buildings do not apply to these bleachers. It also requires special regulation for the establishment needed to host the so-called giant tower jump event. This installation is also considered to be of a temporary nature, since it will only be set up for the duration of the event and will then be permanently dismantled. In view of the fact that the installation will only exist for a short period of time, it is not justified to comply with the rules applicable to the construction of permanent buildings. For the duration of the giant tower jumping event, shipping restrictions are expected to be imposed on the Danube, and the law also empowers the government to lay down special rules in relation to the general rules on the licensing of the water event. The law provides for the possibility for the municipality to transfer the municipal property owned by the municipality to the State without competitive tendering, even free of charge. This exception should be included in the law in order to provide for an exception to the general rules of the National Property Act. In view of the fact that the implementation of the investment has been decided or decided by the Parliament by the adoption of the Government or this Act, it is appropriate to state in the law that no further approval is required in relation to the use of resources for financing the investment. The investment is currently carried out on non-State-owned real estate both in the base building and in the temporary ancillary facilities, and therefore the law provides as the main rule that the builder should conclude the necessary agreements with the owner of the property for the purpose of carrying out the investment. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, To sum up, we have received a huge opportunity, a huge opportunity for both economic, tourism, community building and the opportunities for replacement development. It's a huge opportunity that needs to be combined with a great deal of responsibility. It is very, very important, as many of you have said to me, that this enormous opportunity must come about with responsibility and cooperation, be realized, and indeed a national cooperation can develop in order to achieve this great cause, which can certainly be forward-looking and forward-looking both in Parliament and in the life of society as a whole. It moves not only the political, but also the economic, civil society, sports life, reinforcements, young people. In front of many young Hungarians there can be examples in Hungary, Budapest, in the nation's capital, which can determine the already successful water sports in Hungary for long, long decades. I am sure that if we can take advantage of this huge opportunity, responsibility and cooperation, Hungary will be able to hold a very successful World Championship, which will certainly include many, many sports sikers, and will certainly determine Hungary's economic development and political and public development for many years and decades. Of course, KDNP fully supports the proposal, and I ask that the entire Parliament, all factions, support this very important, sacred matter. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-30-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Varga, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-30-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we are talking today about a motion, a bill that had been preceded by a five-party consultation, and also a few weeks ago by the faction leaders, and this morning, we also discussed how to choose solutions that meet short deadlines, but which are still professional and effective. Indeed, it is not very common in recent months, in years, what can be said about this bill, i.e. that opposition proposals have also been heard. We are talking about a proposal that I think has a strong social support, because water sports are traditionally a success sport for the Olympics as well, and if we only point out waterball, we are obviously talking about a visual team sport that can traditionally be a great success behind it, and we hope to do so in front of you. Therefore, Hungary will definitely have to settle an international tournament, a World Championship in 2017, where it can achieve great success, and it can also have serious social support. Often without reason, Parliament negotiates very quickly, rushing various laws. These are also mentioned regularly, and I have said this many times in Parliament on other proposals. However, the situation is now that we have been able to obtain this right of settlement, even if, in the context of Mexico's withdrawal, let us also say this, it justifies a quick thinking about where to go further. It makes it justified that this process should, as far as possible, be organized, but speeded up by the Parliament within its own framework. Obviously, a lot of people will be debating technical content in public life, but this was part of a tender. I think that, as in the London Olympics, where there was a permanent part of the swimming pool complex there, which is still available to the people there after the Olympics, but there were mobile, temporary bleachers there and temporary structures, which were obviously only available at the given tournament, I consider that this is a good decision to talk about a permanent 5,000 people in connection with the swimming pool complex, and there are temporary bleachers for the accommodation of about 14,000 people. It also tells me that this presentation can be good in this form and is well founded on the story. Let me say to the public of the Parliament, and also to those who are still following the Parliament's work at this hour, that I have already indicated at our meeting this morning that we have several concerns about the proposal, and that we have also made proposals to amend it in order to make this proposal better. In some things, there will obviously be a question mark in opposition representatives, and there may be someone who will say this even harder. Obviously, in a situation where public procurement is decided in this form, when public procedures are so shortened, there is a risk. But let us also say that, by the way, it is unprecedented for a country to try to conduct such an event in such a short period of time. I think that this fight should be supported, together with the many risks and many question marks, as a whole, which is what the possibility of joining forces in this particular motion. We objected to a number of things, and XIII. Our district rep, Dezső Believing, also made proposals, and the XIII. negotiations were also held with the district municipality. That's what the Secretary of State said. [[20.30]] I am pleased that the TAB proposal has adopted our proposal for parking spaces. I think that in the context of such a World Championship, 150 car parking spaces would have been scarce. That's how they increased the numbers. We had serious concerns regarding the greening of the areas concerned. There are more than 500 trees on the affected properties of XIII. in the district. In practice, the original proposal would not have made it mandatory to replace them, if necessary, if they had been clipped during construction. By the way, the XIII. The relevant regulation of the district applies to the proposal or that the provisions of Article XIII shall apply to the proposal. It is mandatory to enter into a kind of agreement with the builder on wood replacement, which is an appropriate guarantee, as it is also a condition of the permit to use the swimming pool complex. I think you've brought the case forward that we've been able to accept that. We were not alarmed, but seriously concerned about the situation with flood protection. There were a few paragraphs to this proposal on flood protection issues. It must be placed on the table for a reason, because a few years ago there was the biggest flood of the last hundred years on the Danube, and it must be prepared for every possibility, it may be affected by a major flood of this XIII. district area. To accept our proposal, which states that the implementation of the flood protection work constitutes a condition for the granting of a permit for entry into service for the building to be built on the real estate of the facility, in Hungarian, that it is possible to use the completed facility if the flood protection facility is adequate and adequate, this is also an appropriate guarantee. We also had a number of suggestions, let me point out one here, that the government has been empowered to do so many things, and we have had so many discussions with Erik Bánki about whether this is okay. Here, too, was the possibility of involving properties not included in the proposal, of involving additional properties to the government. I consider this to be an exemplary thing, and I hope that you will pay attention to this in other proposals, and instead of the general mandate, we have been able to talk to you and the Commissioner about what the specific problem is. The particular problem is that the location of the jump tower is not yet attributable to it at this moment. Therefore, this proposal has been amended in such a way that it is subject to authorisation by the government and that the other properties are set out in Annex 1. I think that this was a compromise proposal that was absolutely necessary and that no other mandate is necessary in this respect. Overall, I can say that this is a very big challenge for the country. I think you are as surprised by this, so it is obviously a pleasure that Hungary has been successful in this, but it must have been at least as surprising for you as it has been for many people in this country, of course, in a positive sense. Along with the limited time limits, I say that this proposal has been accepted by our amendments and has succeeded in putting them in an amendment before the Legislative Committee and is therefore eligible. However, we would like to continue to monitor the implementation of the investment and the fate of this World Cup. We hope that Hungary will be a major international success here in the field of sports as well as in particular, so that our teams and athletes will be able to be successful. To do this, I think that we need to ensure the right conditions, even in the difficult circumstances, which we obviously need to see, the conditions of the budget and the state of the country. At the same time, we can support the proposal, and I think that the circumstances of the conciliation, its mechanism, should be exemplary in many areas of life in Hungary. I hope that the governing parties will take our proposals into account in the proposals that fundamentally affect people's everyday life, and that, in terms of sports life, consensus decisions will be taken later, not like in the case of a facility in Felcsút, or that opposition opinions will be heard where appropriate, for example, in relation to concerns about the mandatory cheer card. I would also like to signal to my fellow Member Bánki and to everyone who can decide that we are open to improving these laws for the benefit of sports-loving citizens and Hungarian people. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-30-272	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2015-03-30-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have the ungrateful task of disrupting this great national unity that is unfolding. With the aim, which the presenters have formulated, we agree, of course, and the goal itself, that Hungary and Budapest, instead of Guadalajara, will host the World Championship with 17 water, we naturally support this. Obviously, we do not have a debate with the other factions on how to discuss the benefits. What is our problem, however, is that I will start immediately with the conditions of preparation and submission. In the first place, I do not understand that if there is an important national issue that requires consensus, then where is the responsible government of the country? Why does such a proposal come in as a motion for individual representatives? I hope not because, in this case, even formal impact assessment obligations need not be fulfilled. Of course, whatever noble purpose this is, I think that, first of all, if the rapporteur, Parliament, wanted to apply exceptional rules, then the minimum requirement would have been to explain precisely why the legislation currently in force is inadequate to achieve the desired objective, and why these deadlines are optimal in relation to it. We don't know what the five-day deadline is. So even the legal analysis wasn't carried out by the author, it's practically a leap into the dark. On the other hand, are we sure that the deadlines described here make this project suitable to be implemented in time? No analysis has been carried out as to whether this investment can be carried out in good time under the expected technical difficulties or construction requirements, in addition to the current legislation. Excuse me, but I don't even believe Erik Bánki. He says here that it can't be achieved... why? Where's the justification? I'm sorry, to say in the closing line, that's a little short for me, it should have been described in the motion. But I'm going to keep going. Where's a recovery impact study? It is one thing that the World Water Championship will take place in 2017, but what is happening there is the XIII. in the district on the Danube bank and the facilities that are being built remain here after 2017. We have seen any plan in the proposal as to how this environmental design or these structures will be used, how will this whole project pay off in the long term? Thirdly, and not least, for a project involving construction, environmental design, it is essential that the rapporteur puts the environmental impact assessment on Parliament's table, with the environmental impact of such an investment. Dear Parliament, Our main objection to this proposal is its spirituality, which, of course, has a history. In 2006, not the first and last time before the elections, love between MSZP and Fidesz broke loose. [[Noise.]] The law on investments in the national economy was adopted on a large coalition basis to present Gordon Bajnai, which is, by the way, a hotbed of corruption. The Socialist Party wanted the gambling industry to flourish at the time, but I didn't quite succeed, thank God, but I still think so, and that's what I thought when Minister Pintér came here in the last few years by pushing up the flagship investment law that you would have liked to govern. If Hungary had had had ordinary governments in the last 10-12 years, such priority investment laws would not be necessary, since the existing procedural rules and the administrative system would be able to serve such projects. [[20.40]] What is our problem with the philosophy of such special laws is double. It loosens the rules on the very large investments with the greatest environmental burden, most capable of transforming the world of life, which, in fact, reduces the potential for people living on the ground to have a say in these matters. In addition, it relaxes the rules and relaxes the transparency of large investments where corruption risks are greatest. So the more important an investment, the greater the volume of an investment, the more it is necessary for local citizens to participate, the more they can fundamentally transform life for future generations, and the greater the risk of corruption. The more important, so to speak, the greater the volume of an investment, the greater the need for strong Community control, the need for a serious environmental inspection and construction authority to prevent the issue of permits. It is not in the interest of bureaucracy when it comes to building authorities, public health, consumer protection or the environment, it is about exercising Community interest, where appropriate, in the interests of future generations, against private interests. You don't want that, and neither did your predecessors. This law gives us a blank check on how different regulations can otherwise replace other rules. Dear Parliament, There are several risk elements in this proposal. On the one hand, it provides an opportunity not to take into account the requirements relating to the grubbing-up and replacement of wooded plants, trees and flood protection. So anything can be built, any amount of plants can be cut off, and flood protection on the Danube bank in Pest can easily be ignored. In addition, there is a rule in the original proposal that the building to be built on the real estate of the installation is not a high building, a high house if the floor area of the building is less than 300 square metres above the top building level of 30 metres. In other words, a high-rise can be built in a place where construction regulations would not allow it. It also exempts from the demolition rules. Thus, without permission, it is possible to break down, for example, the buildings involved in the flood protection of the Pest side and weaken the defences by under construction. Has anyone done an impact assessment in this regard? Who's going to take the risks in five, six, ten years? In the context of the investment, additional derogations may be laid down by law for the protection of cultural heritage and for the administrative procedure related thereto. So a spa of historic nature is free to be destroyed. The jump tower is free of construction restrictions in a world heritage area. According to the law, a new temporary flood protection protection protection or protection line must be established, but there is no impact assessment, at least in the Parliament, on this matter. The LMP's position is that the goal is the right one, and Hungary should organise this World Water Championship, but it should be examined whether the planned facilities can be replaced with existing facilities, alternative locations and temporary bleachers with existing swimming pools. The law provides for the preparation of the necessary impact assessments and underlying studies, where appropriate for social consultation and, in particular, individual building benefits only for temporary bleachers, the lifting of building, environmental, heritage protection and historic protection restrictions is not justified and is therefore irresponsible. There is no sacred purpose to justify all sorts of means. A goal cannot justify a means. These instruments contain the exact risks of corruption and, on the other hand, these instruments are irresponsible in treating our cultural and natural heritage. It is irresponsible to bring a bill here without having prepared a legal analysis of why such special procedural rules are needed; it is irresponsible to bring a bill here without any absorption impact assessment, no environmental and flood protection impact assessment. Therefore, the LMP faction of course supported the departure from the house rule, as we are aware that the time is short, but such a bill is a Member of Parliament, a faction that bears responsibility not only for the sake of legal certainty in Hungary, but also for the interests of future generations, cannot support us, which is why we will not be able to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-274	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon, Fidesz.
u2015-03-30-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In connection with the idea of my fellow Member, Mr László Szászfalvi, allow me to say a few words about the facilities that are being created in connection with the investment. These facilities, however, are set up with a view to perhaps addressing the concerns of my fellow Member Mr Schiffer András. I think - and let me respond to the thought of my fellow Member Mr Schiffer - that what Mr Erik Bánki said as the author and author of the proposal is worth referring back to. The designer is already a guarantee as one of the important cornerstones of the facility, as we are talking about the designers of the Müpa Budapest known by all of us, who supports in my reading that the Hungarian design culture, the Hungarian design culture, the Hungarian technical culture and the facilities that the Hungarian construction industry was able to create and create in the case of large works are sufficient guarantees that the concerns raised in the comments of Mr András Schiffer do not serve as a basis for this deadline-bound project not to be implemented. I think - jumping quickly to the end of your thinking - the introduction that my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi, said that the status of high priority, so the status of the national economy, would not provide the right deadline, I can fully support this. I believe that the completion of these facilities does not, at the same time, suffer any damage to the guarantee elements. I myself have carried out the supervision of priority investments at the time when I was a government commissioner, please, there are deadlines that can be shortened, and the time limit that could be calculated by the preparatory officer of the investment was faced with the fact that the status of the priority investments is not enough time for the establishment to be implemented. Such an event can no longer be held in 2018 and in 17 it is currently happening, then it has to be done. I would also like to underline that, although my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, has gone, that speeding up the deadlines for both the priority status and the Hungarian authority's licensing practice, I can say with a calm heart and responsibility, is not irresponsible, since the construction procedure, reviewing the technical parameters, from the point of view of disaster protection, is a sufficient guarantee that these conditions will be met. In a few words, I returned to my basic comment that I asked for a word in order to quickly outline what the facilities would be like. The investment facilities are grouped around four locations in Balaton in Budapest. What we all know is that the area of today's Dagály Beach Bath is the first important object to which a new swimming pool facility is connected: swimming pool with a 50-metre race pool, a diving pool and a tower building, a warm-up pool and related equipment. For this central location, I would like to note that the facilities remaining after the breakdown of the mobile bleachers are all permanent use facilities. To address the concern about what will happen to the facilities after the end of this event, I think that it can provide a sufficient basis for using our water facilities, which have been established in the past period, in an appropriate quality and well-used capacity. [[20.50]] The capital is enriched with a high-quality facility that can be used in both school and leisure activities with good efficiency. I don't think we're doing so well in the capital, even in a swimming pool, that the construction of this complex doesn't replace another hiatus in the area of the Dagály bath. The flood protection facilities, which are being implemented here, I think are not intended for such a mobile purpose, but for the serious work to be completed to be protected alongside the highest water level at all times. So I think this is going to be a legitimate artifact. The giant tower jump, the tower and the pool, I think is such an important visual element of the "17" contest - and this is now being introduced as a new element, as a novum in this world event - which I would not fear from the historic environment. I think this is an attraction, which, by the way, will not be built into the Danube and hindered by creating an object, but will be dismantled after this event, but this is a huge spectacle, which I think we did not induce, but the director himself, fits the project of FINA. Margaret Island is the next area. I think that the investments made in 2014 in water polo-Eb provide a sufficient basis for a suitable location for qualifying water polo. I think, on the other hand, the additional investments included in the project are based on the continued survival of the Széchy Tamás swimming pool and its additional function for water polo sports, and I think this is also an important installation element. The Imperial-Comyad swimming pool. Back in the day, I remember, when I was in college, we were socializing next to water polo. I am proud to say that György Horkai - I think many names are important to everyone - was one of the important athletes, my classmate, and I learned what it was like to learn with an olympic to study together and to rejoice together that it was a success for the country. I think that the Imperial-Komjad swimming pool, where, although the conditions understand the need for renovation, will also be an important location. And the Balaton crime scenes. Finally, we are having an open-water world event where our biggest standing water is focused, and I think that not only is it ours, but it is the largest standing water in Europe, and Central Europe - if I didn't put it right now - is the largest standing water, and this development of facilities for open-water events is also a serious opportunity for us to continue to host world events. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the exemption of investment from any procedure relating to public procurement - László Szászfalvi also spoke about this - is not intended to ensure that this investment is not carried out with the best conditions and best price setting. I do not think that I share Mr András Schiffer's concerns. This cooperation, which has been achieved in Hungary on this issue, both technically and professionally and in sport terms, is of paramount value, and I therefore ask you to support it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-276	Thank you very much. Two of them indicated that they would like to say: Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, for 50 seconds; then László Varga.
u2015-03-30-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not want to comment in this short time, and I did not want to go deep into the past, but since Mr Galambos has already started to say that, from the fact that there is a good contractor, perhaps because there is a good designer, nothing changes that has happened in the past, both under the MSZP and under the Fidesz governments: building something on the basis of the process started in socialism, then selling it, handing it over, enjoying it for a race, and then letting it rot. This was the case, for example - if you mentioned it - in the case of Margaret Island: the then MSZP government built a HUF 1.7 billion facility for the 2006 floating-Eb, and in the next period the NUSI, who should have been kept in order, did not receive a single penny, so it cost HUF 800 million in 2014 to renovate this facility. It will therefore be a very important aspect of how we can continue to maintain, develop and safeguard these facilities. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-278	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2015-03-30-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, may have been inspired by the contributions of my fellow Member Schiffer for this short period of time. Obviously, I could also analyse the way in which it can be seen, for example, several times in their special travel policy, their cooperation with the ruling parties on their separate departure, but that is not what I would put the emphasis on this agenda. He also raised two other points here: specifically green points, aspects of tree replacement and flood protection; he and others. Let me confirm that the wood supply has been included in our proposal, on which the XIII. The construction works must also be agreed with the district, complete wood replacements should be carried out where appropriate, and the construction works for the flood protection facility must be completed until the permit for entry into service is completed. This is in the area including the Újpest quay. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So I must say to you that these two amendments that we have tabled have made the proposal better. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-280	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak to him in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Bánki, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining nine minutes and 15 seconds.
u2015-03-30-281	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken in this debate for what they have said. Thank you very much for the supportive and encouraging words I have received, and thank you very much for the awareness-raising comments you made on the basis of the bill and the concern you may have with regard to the resolution that is undoubtedly challenging and the implementation of investments. If I may, I will try to respond to what has been said in the debate. If my fellow Members have honored me with their opinions, I will also try to repay them. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik for Hungary Movement. I am very pleased that the Member considers the organisation of the World Water Championship to be a national issue, and that Jobbik's faction supports our motion, thus helping indeed to prepare investments in merit, in excellent quality and with the best possible timing for the summer of 2017, and to prepare for the organisation of the event itself. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The fact that it requires individual treatment because of the short preparation time, we are completely in agreement. I also understand the Member's comment that he would be more pleased if, thanks to the basic regulation, not only such an outstanding event - and also a world event for which we have less than the average time to prepare - would benefit from such a priority, but, normally, the investments that would be made in the market, even for local governments, would also deserve a shorter term of administration. I think that the government has done not little over the past period by shortening administrative times in order to make these investments as flexible and smooth as possible. However, I agree with the Member that there is still room for improvement. Indeed, I can see, either in the local government world or in the business world, how many problems, how many bureaucratic measures are faced by those who, either by using EU funds or simply by risking their own resources, would create jobs or are trying to improve their competitiveness. They support the settlement of the World Championship, which I thank very much for, and the Member noted that transparency will play a very important role; I believe that it has been supported and done by Government Commissioner Balázs Fürjes. I would like to thank the Commissioner, in particular, for the fact that he felt that this bill was so important that he was sitting here in person during the debate. I think the bill, number two. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 specifically aims to address this issue, namely that it wishes to create more publicity than the average procedures for this investment. [[21.00]] If we are really talking about the fact that this is a national matter - we cannot do otherwise - then all data other than the protection of personal data will be made public. This has been promised specifically by the Commissioner of the Government at the five-party conciliation, and the bill itself is a guarantee. We fully agree on that, too. On behalf of my fellow Member, Mr László Szászfalvi, KDNP, thank you for your support, including your faction. I agree with what the Member noted that this water world is of paramount importance not only from an economic point of view but also from a sports development point of view. In fact, there are seven tournaments in the World Championships, swimming, long-term swimming, synchronizing swimming, diving, waterball, giant tower jumps, and there is a very interesting number of World Championships that are connected to it, and this is the Masters Tournaments. I think that not only will it be a huge boost for supply, but it will also be an excellent opportunity for our athletes to prove themselves. Why do I think that? Let's go back to the last World Championship. In Doha, 2014 we gained six Hungarian gold medals in swimming, in Berlin, at the last European Championship we won five gold medals, and in the youth Olympics our contestants won four gold medals, and they were also able to secure several silver and bronze medals and score points. I think that it is also a great opportunity for Hungarian society to be able to cheer for our own competitors in a domestic environment. I am not talking about what positive energy it will be for our competitors when tens of thousands of fans encourage them in these events. Mr László Varga, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also thank you for your cooperation. I think, despite the short period of time, we have been able to have a meaningful debate, and we have been able to deal with the points that we have received from the MSZP in substance. Thank you very much for providing your support in advance for the adoption of the bill. I don't think you're gonna be disappointed in that either. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President of the World Championship, Mr President, Mr President, With regard to your concerns, I think we can handle a lot of things already. The Commissioner has also indicated, and I myself, as rapporteur, that we are open to this at a later stage. So if anything arises as a problem in connection with the settlement on the move, it will not be a problem even if it requires a legislative amendment. Although I think that, for example, in order to ensure green spaces, there is a much greater guarantee than the average, the bill finally contains an amendment, since the Mayor and the XIII. He's putting the decision in the hands of a district council. This may also be a serious risk in connection with the investment, because this gives the municipality more regulation than the law, because if he cannot agree with the government commissioner on the replacement of the wooding, then there is no licence for use and no World Championship. I think it also shows our openness. Of course, this is obviously an extreme example, and I do not think that this could happen, but also the serious responsibility of the authors to give the municipality such powers. The same concerns have been raised about flood protection. I think there is a good solution here, too, because we have also made the new dam system subject to a permit for entry into service. For the record, the municipality will be richer with this, since the XIII. The share of flood protected areas in the district will increase significantly thanks to the new investment. Mr András Schiffer indicated that his faction was not involved in this cooperation. This is not the first such manifestation on their part. I think that the attitude of the LMP is not necessarily worthy of a national case. I trust that they will reconsider their current position as we go along, and that, seeing the cooperation that is essential behind a successful investment, they will join him. We'll be open to that, I promise you. Finally, I say to Mr Dénes Galambos, on behalf of Fidesz: I agree, Member, that the knowledge and creativity of Hungarian designers, Hungarian engineers, has been of European reputation, and has been rewarded with many awards. I trust that these structures will stand up to their place in terms of both European and world treasure, and I am also sure that, like their previous production, they will now bring great prizes with a similar challenge. Of course, the capital is getting the most rich. However, after organising a World Championship, the centre of a city, the capital city or the host city, and if we look at the results of Hungarian swimming or water polo sports, I think that these facilities will also be used well after the World Championship. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comment on all the factions, thank you for the support that we have been given as regards the adoption of the bill. I also think that the Commissioner of the Government can guarantee that this enterprise will indeed succeed, despite the short deadline. FINA, the International Swimming Association, noted that in their experience no one could prepare for such an event in less than 26 months. We've got about 22-24 months to do this. However, with the current regulatory amendments, the Commissioner has given a guarantee that this will be done. If we look back at the construction of the Budapest Arena after the unexpected burning of the Budapest Sports Hall, there was only a need to carry out the investment from August 2001 until March 2003 and in the case of the Fradi Arena, a year was enough for the construction. I think that we will all have a joint success and that society will benefit from this investment, so thank you again for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-282	Welcome, fellow Members. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Alpáros, György Balla, Roland Mengyi, István Németh Szilárd and T/3782. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that László Vécsey has recently announced that he has joined the bill as rapporteur. In the meantime, this can already be found on the National Assembly's IT website. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/3782/4. No. T/3782/5 and T/3782/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3782/7. and the summary report is T/3782/8. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I therefore give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-30-283	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 26 March 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/3782 on the amendment of Act T/3782 Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the five-point amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, of which points 1, 3 and 4 were supported by 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. Points 2 and 5 of the Economic Committee's proposal were improved by the Legislative Committee. Overall and on the bill in general, industry regulation also allows the supply of natural gas to the public and to other users as defined by law in the context of a so-called universal service. In addition to the official price, the universal service provides a number of favourable conditions for users. In order to ensure these benefits on a continuous basis, it is necessary, subject to the freedom of the undertaking, to regulate the case where a company intends to cease its activities as a universal service provider. The purpose of this bill is to ensure the continued supply of natural gas within the framework of universal service for users of the company wishing to cease universal service activities. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further, which was supported by 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 23 votes to six, with three abstentions. Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[21.10]]
u2015-03-30-284	I now give the floor to Bertalan Tóth, who will present the minority opinion of the committee.
u2015-03-30-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Our concern in the Legislative Committee has been somewhat confirmed, since we are at the second step of a legislative process that is completely unacceptable to us. There was an amendment to the law on natural gas, which meant harmonisation with the European Union's rule system, although there was also an indication that the rules of the Union were not always adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, since the energy office at the border crossing points, at the eastern border, would act according to different rules. Here we are now at a second step. This bill is about the fact that the contracts of universal service providers operating today expire during the summer. In the past, we have not seen any government intention to extend them and must be prepared in the event that these universal service providers return this right, then how the public service provider will be able to take over the service. The concern was already there during the debate, which proved at the legislative committee that the public utility provider based on the base of the Main Gas was prepared, because here we can talk about millions of consumers, their data and consumption patterns, which are obviously different from country to country. But we are talking about outstanding amounts, events, information that is important and available to a retail consumer. The public utility company should do a pretty serious job here. This has been somewhat facilitated by the substantive proposal of the Economic Committee, which, without change, has given some scope and time for the public utility to prepare for possible consumer masses, which will appear after the law has been enforced. One more thing: I mentioned that before there was no government intention, I understand that there will be a salad law, in which, after all, universal service providers will be given a year's opportunity to obtain and supply resources at a discount or at a certain price. So the public utility isn't ready, Main Gas isn't ready to perform such a task. This was confirmed by the amendment tabled to the Legislative Committee by the Economic Committee. However, since we cannot support the entire bill, we obviously did not support the summarised amendment either. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-286	I will now ask the author, László Vécsey, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Then let me tell you that you have a 10-minute window.
u2015-03-30-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These comments and concerns were indeed made at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. But this does not change, of course, the purpose of the law, its appropriateness, since the reduction of the rent has been subject to many attacks, in order to ensure and protect the reduction of the rent, there is a need for various laws and regulations to be clarified. This is also the bill before us. The main question is whether, in this new system, the new utility provider, the universal service provider, is sufficiently prepared. This is a relevant issue, which is precisely what the bill before us seeks to secure by various means, in particular with a view to protecting consumers. The bill regulates, redefines, rewrites the law on many points. To mention just a few examples, it fully regulates the procedure for selecting the universal service provider as the new receiver of the energy office, regulates the bidding process of the new universal service providers in full depth, if this were to happen, of course, with a particular focus on security of supply in all parts of the regulation. It regulates issues that are not currently regulated, such as the case where no service provider would apply for the new service label in relation to the licences returned. The procedure for the so-called final designation of refuge has also been regulated in this case. It also ensures, and ultimately, balanced implementation of the full transfer-take process. So we can trust that, if this bill is adopted, customers, especially households, the Hungarian population and typically small businesses using universal services, can safely expect that their care will be fine. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-30-288	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have seven minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the government secretary if she wants to speak to him. [[For signal:]] Yes, it indicates yes. You have the floor.
u2015-03-30-289	I would just like to confirm, in part, what Mr Vécsey has just said and that the amendment tabled and the summarised amendment of the Legislative Committee attached to it is supported by the Government. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-290	Thank you. The designated committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now it will be the members' speeches within the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. That is to say, my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, has the floor.
u2015-03-30-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I said in the minority opinion, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the adoption of the bill in its current form, because it does not provide universal service providers with equal access to sources of gas at competitive prices, does not provide for the creation of an efficient competitive market providing consumers with the cheap gas in Russia and Western Europe, as compared to October last year, and does not ensure its enforcement and delivery to the general public. I would like to emphasise here, because this has already been said in the general debate, although this is not what my fellow Member has said, but in the general debate, the original authors stated in particular that there were many attacks on the rent reduction, that these legislative proposals were supported by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party at the time of the referral. You were the ones who did not support my request for inclusion, which, as I said, would have served to enforce cheap world market prices for Hungarian consumers. They did not support the reduction of gas accounts by 20% and the reduction of district heating and electricity bills by 10-10 percent. Today, too, an interpellation has been said in this regard. And they didn't answer how it could happen that a government company under the supervision of a Ministry of National Development doesn't disclose data to an authority, the Energy Authority, which therefore cannot enforce the benefits of cheap gas in public prices. [[21.20]] This is unacceptable, as is the fact that an energy agency is punishing a state-owned company. The punishment is not unacceptable, but that it will be done at all, and, as I said, we cannot support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-292	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2015-03-30-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, In point 2 of the summarised amendment proposal, the reasons for the clarification of language suitability and codification are given. On the other hand, the issues covered by the summarised amendment are very substantive. Here it is very important that the universal service provider is obliged to ensure the continuous supply of natural gas affected by the takeover, or to inform the consumer concerned of such receipt in accordance with the information schedule. This is a very substantive issue, so the justification is very lame, and in itself I am also sorry that this law has been dealt with in this way in one of the last moments. We consider it important that the state shows, as far as possible, a predictable path to what sectors it intends to intervene in. In the natural gas sector, we could see that the law on gas supply has been amended several times, like the law on electricity supply, and that practically this idea, step by step, something has always happened, more than once, the opposite of what was done before. However, there is no real reassuring solution in these areas. Of course, with the government's aim, it is possible to agree that the energy sector, which has been trashed and privatised at a price by socialist governments, should be taken back into Hungarian and even community property as much as possible. This is a goal that Jobbik has always supported, since in other states with a happier fate, it could not have been very likely that such a sector, which is considered strategically important, should be strayed abroad. However, what we see now is that the state take-back that is taking place within the framework of the Main Gas does not give unconditional guarantees that, on the one hand, the process will be lasting and sustainable and, on the other hand, that gas prices will actually decrease. We have already proposed, and I will do it now, Madam Minister, to forward the comment within the government, and we considered it important that only reasonable operating and capital costs can be applied in prices, this concerns the upper price limit, but it is also very important that the system is sustainable. If we look at the investment rates in the energy sector now, what we can see is basically that this is not a sustainable path that we are running now; we are running on a path where we are sliding down, and it is simply not possible to maintain these capacities in a similar way. We also consider it important that public engagement should take place in such a way that it is predictable for market players and, of course, in the end, it will result in consumers getting cheaper access to natural gas from a sustainable energy sector that operates in a more environmentally friendly way. This is the real sustainable reduction of the overhead. Thank you very much for the patience of the Members. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-294	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said in seven minutes. [[László Vécsey says yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, my colleague, László Vécsey.
u2015-03-30-295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Of course, I thank my fellow Members for the speeches from the opposition groups, but only the debates can be repeated. I can only agree with my colleague Volner on the speech by my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth. So everything that the Socialist Group has put forward in this case will refer back to the 8 years of their governance, because they have had every opportunity in 8 years of governance to implement these proposals, which are now being put forward to reduce public utility charges, to support the population and small entrepreneurs. They didn't do that when they were steering. This is nothing more than a simple political gain to come up with such proposals. Not to mention the period of 94-95, when some important utilities and energy suppliers were sold to foreign customers with a guaranteed return on assets of 8 per cent. I would like to conclude by saying that, in the context of the durability of the process, I think that there should be sufficient guarantee of the determination that the faction and the government have in keeping with the reduction of the rent, and it is clearly necessary to assess and take into account the efforts to achieve a non-profit service in general, including in the case of energy suppliers. This can, of course, be discussed later on on on the cost factors included in the non-profit service. But overall, the bill itself is not about that, but about allowing universal utility service providers to return the service and license, and this should not mean that consumers should be left unserviced where appropriate. This has been covered in all aspects of the bill by various regulatory instruments. So as a rapporteur and a closing point, I also call on the opposition groups to review their position and to support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-30-296	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission was made in T/3752. ) can be found on the Parliament's IT network. Report of the Committee for Sustainable Development as a designated committee T/3752/2. was given to them. I ask the rapporteur, Mr István Nagy, if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. István Nagy says yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Secretary of State, within a 10-minute time frame, along with the closing word.
u2015-03-30-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The amendment to the 2011 Environmental Product Fee Act will apply from 1 January 2015. Following its entry into force, certain points of the law are unclear on the basis of the feedback received from the law-employed and from certain farmers concerned, which creates legal uncertainty among the debtors. In order to resolve this, the legislative wallet has decided to correct the legislation. T/3752. The following elements are included in the proposed amendment No 1. The proposal corrects Annex I to the Environmental Product Fee Act and the definition of office paper in order to facilitate and facilitate the clear definition of products subject to product charges for the farmers concerned. Secondly, the National Waste Management Agency Közhasznú Nonprofit Kft. By the end of January 1, 2015, the National Waste Management Directorate took over as the organisational unit of the National Directorate for Environmental Protection and Nature Protection. The National Waste Management Board shall receive budgetary support from the corresponding chapter management appropriations for the performance of its tasks. The proposal provides for the possibility of registering and managing in a separate account which is essential for the use of the aid. We would like to regulate these in this amendment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-30-298	Dear Parliament, The designated Committee for Sustainable Development does not wish to present a rapporteur. The minority opinion will be presented in a three-minute time frame, so I will give the floor to Anita Heringes.
u2015-03-30-299	Thank you very much for the floor. As we said at the committee meeting, our problem with this clarification and this amendment is that even in the 2011 amendment to the name of Zoltán Illés, the MSZP could not support this amendment because it was basically an amendment to the product fee that did not make life easier for businesses, because it was an excessive administration and it did not solve the problems. [[21.30]] We think the solution would be a completely rewritten law on this. In addition, in recent years, it has been proven that the government, through the regulation on product fees, has only sought to lay the foundations for an unreasonable system of money collection, a further example of this. We have already said at the budget that both the soap tax and the shampoo tax, which the population today has been calling with these names, was a misguided decision. We understand that these are not large amounts, but a lot of small costs on the basis that these amounts should not be collected on people, or that if this revenue is already collected in the budget, then perhaps they should be spent on what they have been collected, because while the proposal expands and clarifies the range of products charged with environmental product charges, it is also apparent that despite the €63 billion environmental product fee revenue planned for 2015, the government will not be able to use even a quarter of the revenue received to support, for example, the domestic waste management system, which has suffered from the reduction of costs and is also subject to a deposit charge, and we know that especially those who were mayors know that these companies are unable to pay and manage this deposit contribution today. We are talking about a failed system, which is a huge problem, for example, in waste management, throughout the country. We think we should put in a whole new law for that. The money should be spent on what the government is collecting and, for example, the waste management system should be put in place. I think the government has something to do with the problem of depositing contributions. This should start, and not push and fold, to clarify this bill. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-30-300	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll give the floor first to the written ones. In this sense, it is also the word of Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-03-30-301	Originally, the environmental product fee was introduced in 1995, with the original aim and most importantly the aim of creating financial resources to prevent and reduce environmental risks and damage caused by the production, distribution and use of products. The intention itself was good, but the problem is that the money will be collected, and then it won't really be spent on what people pay for, but unfortunately, no one will be surprised. The grass money was the same, although it was now resolved, but not quite as it should have been. In addition, the initial purpose of the deposit contribution introduced in 2013 would have been to support less waste generation and to divert waste from the landfill. The revenue from the deposit contribution could have been used or used by the Minister for the Environment to ensure and improve the operation of the waste management public service. But what we see today is that these nonprofit companies can't even pay this deposit fee, as I said before, because you have simply created a system that has reduced a well-functioning system to an unsustainable system. In the environmental product award, this is truly an outrage that more than HUF 63 billion is expected. This obviously includes the extra taxes you've levied, and people are very, very happy to be able to pay for it, and then, by the way, the budget itself will absorb it, and who knows what will be spent on, for example, the establishment and renovation of stadiums. The very good thing is that the people who pay these extra taxes, of which there are indeed countless, imposed by the Fidesz-KDNP government, are the people whose money is going to make something that they will not have to do in their lives, because they will certainly not be able to pay the entrance to these stadiums. It is clear that the environmental protection is not important for you here, and the problem is that, for example, as long as we know that this is not a question for Mr. Secretary of State, there is no way of fooling the issue of environmental protection on a two-thirds majority, and somehow there is no force to turn the environmental product fee into what the government has collected. We are very, very hoping that the environmental product prize will finally be spent on what is needed and will have more lobbying power for the Secretary of State and the Minister on this matter, so that the budget will not really swallow it, and that the small people's money will be turned to what has been collected. That would be the least I could do. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-30-302	I am asking, fellow Members, if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] Yeah, he's signaling. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has honored me by giving her opinion on this amendment. I must say that we could go back to the debate with the Congresswoman when we adopted the basis for this law. Let me signal to my fellow Member that environmental protection is an extremely important thing and very important thing for the government. To highlight one of your questions, let me say a few words about the deposit fee. This was designed by the government at the time not to encourage waste companies to deposit as much waste as possible in landfills, but to process them, so that as little waste as possible is deposited in landfills, precisely for the protection of the environment. So if we can recycle as much as possible, the more we can choose from these materials, much less waste will be produced in practice, and this landfill contribution will serve as a punishment. But let me tell my fellow Member that municipal waste companies can apply to the Ministry to compensate for this. Obviously, this is a longer process, by the time the amount of dumping can be reduced, which is sustainable, it can be paid to these companies. These applications have already been evaluated in the days, and in the days the payment, the transfer of money, will be made to these companies. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Yes, but at the same time it is very helpful to create an approach, so to encourage companies to have less and less waste that is completely discarded, but to have as much waste as possible in this selected and re-used waste. That is the purpose of this general. Thank you very much for your comments, and I very much hope that Parliament will vote for this amendment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-30-304	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows now that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals is to follow. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/3749. ) can be found on the Parliament's IT network. Report of the Agriculture Committee as designated committee T/3749/4. was given to them. Report from the Committee on Sustainable Development as a committee on debate T/3749/5. was given to them. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr István Nagy State Secretary if he wishes to speak. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let me just be very brief about the debate that we are about to have. The amendment responds to the interpretation questions raised in practice and extends the scope of the delegation provisions. The amendment contributes to the authorisation of the Minister to establish an implementing regulation for the protection and welfare of animals in 1998 in accordance with the new Ministerial Decree on Dangerous Species, currently under the nominification procedure. It is necessary with regard to the provisions of law. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the Minister is authorised to lay down in a regulation rules on the range of dangerous animals, the rules on their individual identification, the rules on the retention, reproduction, disposal, transport of highly dangerous animals and the conditions for the operation of the national database of records of dangerous animals. The Minister shall be further authorised to lay down rules for the establishment, operation and maintenance of the zoo and zoo in a regulation. [[21.40]] The amendment also states that birds, reptiles and mammals should be uniquely identified in the case of dangerous animals. This regulation has already been included, but the wording of the law has given rise to misunderstandings, which are modified and corrected by this amendment. That is the spirit in which we intend to continue the debate. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-306	The designated committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to take part in the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, which means that the word belongs to Mrs Anita Heringes.
u2015-03-30-307	The bill now serves to clarify and correct the content errors made with the amendment adopted in 2012. As it was then, unfortunately, we are now seeing legislation-editing work here. I think that if employees had not been selected on a political basis at the time of the change of government, it would probably be possible to do much more accurate work in legislation. For example, if anyone had only read the amendment of the law and its justification, the word "animal" would have been written with an "l" in the justification of the Animal Protection and Welfare Act. In any case, it's a fundamental mistake, I think even in elementary school, you'll notice that mistake. But then let's obviously rise beyond that, the spelling problems, and let's look at, say, a legislative issue. The wording repeals certain sentences, doesn't it? If there were still people working in ministries who knew how to codify and draft laws, they would know that the sentence is not an independent structural unit of the law, so a sentence cannot be repealed. Therefore, how other laws are drafted and written is certainly also thoughtful, and how Sándor Fazekas may authorise such an amendment, but it is all the more thoughtful that the Minister of Justice himself can let one of these pass through his hand. I think that, unfortunately, we are seeing this job more and more in Parliament, and I think that there would be something to think about, there would be something to clarify, to do legislation more slowly, more thoughtfully, and then there would not be such laws out of the hands of the almost two-thirds majority. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-308	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-03-30-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I can agree with the criticisms I have just said, and I could indeed have looked at this work more carefully before it came before us. Nevertheless, the content of the amendment, the professional part of the amendment, is agreed by Jobbik, which has already been explained in the general debate, and during the committee meeting, I believe that there has been a consensual discussion on this subject. So, in this way, we have not changed our opinion and we will be able to support this proposal, but I would like to draw attention - and we have done it several times - to the fact that if it was about the protection of animals, and if we have already touched on this law, then it would have been worth considering the whole of the legislation more carefully, and we would have liked to have seen a broader amendment incorporated in the experience of recent years. I also said at the committee meeting that, for example, we have already started in the direction in which, I believe, we have been a basic requirement in the luckier countries of Europe for years, but in the case of domestic cats, we are still very, very far from that. I am thinking here that from a conservation point of view, domestic cats may cause more harm than wild stray dogs - our protected birds and reptiles in particular - and their records, the treatment of unnecessary and unwanted breeding, have not been completely resolved in Hungary. Let us be honest, no one can even have any idea how many thousands of newborns, young children are destroyed each year by families or by people who hold these animals recklessly and have no sense of responsibility for what they have undertaken. In this way, I suggest that we consider that the tweezing of domestic cats and a more serious register and the introduction of sanctions will not be avoided sooner or later. There are quite a few countries in the world, however, which have already started in this direction, in northern Europe and in New Zealand, there is a regulation far more serious than ours. I know that this is not the subject of this debate, and I will not explain it further, but I wanted to draw attention here, too, to the fact that we have to go in this direction because of our own environment and our own health risks. Our comments and criticisms on dogs will be further explained by my colleague Zsolt Egyed. There was also a debate at the committee meeting on the justification or justification for the indication of amphibians, the tweeting of dangerous amphibians or the provision of an individual indicator. There I have received convincing arguments that this amendment, which our fellow Members from LMP have tabled, may indeed be unnecessary, so I do not want to argue any further. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-310	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2015-03-30-311	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar said, this legislative amendment proposal must be supported by Jobbik, Jobbik Hungary Movement is committed to responsible animal farming and animal protection. However, if my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar mentioned the experience with dogs here, it should be noted that a law is always worth something when it is respected, and the mandatory transponder supply of dogs is a very forward-looking and very good direction, I think that if we went, say, to a village with a transponder reader in the country, I would like to know what percentage of the saloon would be at the end. So here's the problem with rechecking, and we have to tell you, it's always about people being irresponsible. It should be noted of the categories that this legislative proposal is about, and here I would like to highlight the particularly dangerous animals that are kept as pets at home, different reptiles and other exotic animals, and I do not think the problem here is that the farmer would not be willing to feed this animal with a microchip, but the simple problem here is that I believe that at least 80-90 percent of these animals are being held illegally. So they're not reported anywhere, and usually these positions come out when the animal escapes, and then the neighbor, say, meets a python on the fifth floor in the stairwell, and it's perfectly justified that the person is scared, desperate, and all because they don't know about these animals, that they're there, where appropriate, in the condominium. So I would like to urge Mr Secretary of State that this bill is good, this direction is good, but we should definitely put more emphasis on monitoring here, and I would like to take this opportunity - as a representative in contact with countless animal protection organisations - to also draw attention to animal cruelty, so that basically the animal protection law adopted in 2012 gives us the opportunity to reduce these cases of animal cruelty. Basically, the Btk. It also provides an opportunity for those who commit such a crime to receive appropriate punishment, but unfortunately, the practice shows that these cases are simply not taken seriously by the courts and by the handling bodies, although in the medium and long term this can have very negative consequences for the assessment of a society either from abroad or for people with normal values here. So I would certainly urge the Secretary of State to urge his own faction and the government to harmonise the animal protection law currently in force with the Btk., and I do not consider it an idea from the devil that if animal torture cases were required by law to be punished with imprisonment, because I believe that this could be a deterrent against what virtually every night the television viewer faces in a newscast. [[21.50]] So I think that this is a fundamental condition for a healthy society to treat animals whose fate is left to the farmer, as is the case with the 21st century. It's acceptable in the first century. As I said to Mr Secretary of State, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will support the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-312	I now give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2015-03-30-313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, With regard to the amendment of the Animal Protection Act before us, it can be said that it is supported by quite a wide range of my fellow Members. In the general debate and in the detailed debate in the Committee on Agriculture and Sustainable Development, my fellow opposition Members were fundamentally constructive and supportive of the proposal. The only amendment tabled to this proposal, which actually concerns the pecking of amphibians, was ultimately supported by no committee. Of course, the proposal also meets the requirements of the house rules, so our faction will support it in any way during the votes. Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-30-314	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-315	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me go through the order of the speeches, but let me start with a motto that will accompany my life, which is basically saying that when you domesticated animals, you also took responsibility for it. After all, we have given them up their independent lives in order that if they come into our service, to our pleasure, to our benefit, we will take care of them. And this is the provision of XXI. It should also be highly enforced in the first century. I owe Mrs Anita Heringes an apology and a promise that we will no longer come forward with such a spelling problem and codification problem law amendment, but we will try to correct these technical problems. Thank you to my fellow Members Zoltán Magyar and Zsolt Egyed for supporting the amendment for Jobbik Hungary. Thank you for bringing up the cats. I believe that the road that we and the dogs started is a change of mind, a change of mind in the population, in the puppies. And I think we're getting closer to the cats. At the same time, it is a much wider social circle, and it raises a lot more questions, and perhaps the cat is a little different kind of pet than the dog itself, who is a friend of man, and much better among us, so personal engagement with cats is more difficult. But I have to say, at a distance of decades, we will certainly not get away with the fact that cats must also be identified, and we need to know who they belong to, because they are responsible for all the things caused by such a cat, whether in sickness or in retention or in wandering, or in the eradication of natural protected animals. Let me indicate to my colleague Zsolt Egyed that a law is worth as much as it is respected. You're absolutely right. At the same time, we should never consider our fellow citizens in creating a law that is renegade, but rather those with whom we want to do good things, and then we want to provide opportunities to force our renant fellow citizens to be law-abiding. But I have to say, according to the law, rabies vaccines can no longer be given to dogs who are not laced. So the two must have sufficient guarantees, though it is no guarantee that if a dog bites someone without being pinched and is probably not vaccinated against rabies, then there is a great panic. I hope that a change of attitude over the years will have the effect that is necessary. And I thank my fellow Member, Mr Pócs, for his supporting words. I hope that Parliament will, by a large majority, agree to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-316	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission was made in T/3751. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report of the Agriculture Committee as designated committee T/3751/2. was given to them. I would like to ask Mr. István Nagy State Secretary if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-317	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly, the amendment aims to reduce background institutions and bureaucracy in line with the government's simplification efforts. Within this framework, the National Agricultural Library and Documentation Centre is integrated into the National Agricultural Museum. The long-term professional goal is that the National Agricultural Museum and Library, which is created by integration, will continue to function as a kind of knowledge centre for agriculture, agricultural professionals and interested persons, where all knowledge about agriculture can be found in one place. As a result of integration, a professionally defining, cost-effective and simple organisation is created. I hope this proposal will be eligible. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-318	Dear Parliament, The designated committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now it will be the members' speeches within the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to give the floor once again to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-03-30-319	Basically, this is a one-story proposal in which the National Agricultural Library, the Documentation Centre, will be merged with the Agricultural Museum with effect from 1 July, which will be called the National Agricultural Museum and Library. We think that the good intentions of the author are probably even okay, because this is probably the way that this institution can function better in an integrated way. Our problem is that we have the question of what might be in the background, which even the Ministry may not know, because it wanted to make a good professional decision on this issue. Rest assured, Mr. Secretary, that the agricultural museum will be removed from Vajdahunyadvár in order to allow restaurants and catering units to be needed for the conversion of the City Park to Vajdahunyadvár. We're very, very afraid that we're gonna get into another mess on this, and you're gonna, if not the Ministry, but the almost two-thirds majority of us are gonna see in this question how it's possible to play a good institution for friends. Therefore, we will abstain from this amendment, because unfortunately it is no longer possible to trust almost two thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP, because you never know what they can do with. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-320	I now give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2015-03-30-321	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The faction supports the merger of the Hungarian Agricultural Museum and the National Agricultural Library, and we look forward to the development programme for the new institution. During the discussions on the proposal, we found all the formal and substantive factors in order. I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support this small amendment. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-30-322	I now give the floor to István Ikotity.
u2015-03-30-323	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, The integration of the Hungarian Agricultural Museum and the National Agricultural Library and Documentation Centre would be fundamentally eligible if it really aims to reduce the background institutions and bureaucracy and does not lead to a reduction in the level of quality so far. That's questionable at the moment, we see. However, this merger alone certainly does not result in an improvement in quality. We also do not see how the professionally defining cost-effective knowledge centre, which was also discussed in the Parliamentary debate by Minister of State of Agriculture Zsolt V. Németh. Without additional resources and other measures, this integration will obviously be limited. [[22.00]] The amendment would enter into force on 1 July, i.e. only three months to prepare for the change. Moreover, organisational and institutional changes during the year are not fortunate in the first place. Due to all these uncertainties, the LMP will abstain from the final vote on the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-324	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-03-30-325	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would say that I am a little more opposed to this law than my fellow Members from the opposition benches, because I am convinced that once again there is a school example of unprepared, unprepared, ingenious, ad hoc decision-making at the moment. Although the amendment of the law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education seems to be technical, the name of the National Agricultural and Documentation Centre will be changed to the National Agricultural Museum and Library, the name changes institutionally, as the Secretary of State said, the Agricultural Museum and the National Agricultural Documentation Centre will be merged. The question is how the tasks will be carried out in the future. That's not what we're talking about. How will the statutory tasks of the new institution be insured? The explanatory statement does not contain a single word. The rapporteur therefore expects this House to vote in favour of the amendment by not informing us of the real reason for the institutional transformation, nor of the likely consequences, nor of the details of the decision on institutional transformation. The author therefore expects us to sign a blank check once again, in which he will do what he wants without further control. Moreover, it is not only three months away, but it is still three months away, so it would take effect from 1 July 2015; this would be the change. So we are deciding on a future event at the moment without knowing anything about it, as I said, what will happen next with these institutions. I also draw attention to the fact that this change is taking place in the middle of a budget year. We have no idea, for example, how this will affect the functioning of the institutions or how they even imagined this to be transformed. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary feels that once again a law has been introduced that has not been prepared at all, which has not informed Members at all about the amendment of the law, as I said, has not been informed to any extent, even to the extent that we are able to take a responsible decision to support or support this amendment. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support this amendment. It seems, Mr State Secretary, that you are once again making a law which has not been supported by any of the speakers from the opposition benches, even though you have said that it is only a technical amendment. We have said that it is not a technical amendment, after all, not just a change of name, but there can be very, very many things in the background, there can be very, very many pitfalls to this one sentence, and we feel that you have not prepared this at all. I am also convinced, unlike Anita Heringes, that you have not introduced this law in a benevolent way, and I am also convinced that you are certain that you are aware of that background. [[Anita Herring: I hope so!]] what they would like to do with these things, because if they did not, such unprepared laws would not have been submitted to this House, and they would not be disinheriting the legislation at the moment. I asked in the general debate to consider withdrawing this law, and then to return it to the House after 1 July 2015, let us discuss it when they can already say anything about what they have in mind with these two institutions if they can say anything to Members about what they should expect. This way we can decide responsibly, but in this way the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support you in this amendment of the law. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-30-326	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to comment in a maximum of nine minutes. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your comments. Let me disband a doubt, for they all had the doubt of what would happen to Vajdahunyadvár and that something must have happened to me. I would like to assure you that the measure is about creating a more cost-effective, simpler, bureaucratic organisation. When addressing concerns, let me say that committed professionals work in these institutions as well. Trust in your excellent work, just as the government trusts you and the ruling party. I ask you very much to consider your vote and support this law when it comes to adoption. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-328	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the National Disability Programme are now under discussion. The proposal for a decision is H/3586. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. Report of the Welfare Committee as designated committee H/3586/8. was given to them. The report of the Committee on Enterprise Development as a committee on debate is H/3586/7. was given to them. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[On the sign of Charles Czibere:]] Would the Secretary of State Charles Czibere like to comment at the end? [[Dr. Károly Czibere: Thank you, at the end!]] All right, thank you. The position of the People's Welfare Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I therefore give the floor to Gergely Tapolczai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-30-329	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Welfare discussed the draft and the proposal for a decision on the National Disability Programme 2015-2025. House rules are 44. § (1) of the proposal complies with the requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article, as stated in the committee's debate. The proposal for a decision was made in order to improve the situation of people with disabilities and to ensure equal opportunities and social inclusion as widely as possible. It is typical of the disability area, as I said before, that it has a horizontal perspective, so it deals with solutions covering all areas of life. The area requires coordinated measures from the current government. The National Disability Programme for the years 2015-2025 therefore aims to define the policy orientations for the years ahead. Without the need for completeness, the main objectives and areas are: support for the social inclusion of people with disabilities, data collection, employment, social services, benefits, complex rehabilitation, self-living in the field of transport, sport. For each of these, the draft seeks to propose a solution. At the committee's debate, Mr Czibere, State Secretary and Deputy State Secretary Imre Nitrai were present. The proposal for a decision and the amendments have been discussed. Neither the wallet nor the committee supported the amendments. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate was not tabled by the Committee. We have decided on the adoption of the report on the detailed debate with three abstentions, not without a vote, so the committee has accepted it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-30-330	I now give the floor to Sebestyén Cutter, who will present the minority opinion of the committee. [[22.10]]
u2015-03-30-331	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai said, there was no debate in the committee as to whether the proposal for a resolution complies with the house rules and there were no concerns about the proposal for a resolution itself that would not have ensured the opposition's support for the committee members. However, the amendments were mainly opposed to the majority. The interesting situation on the committee and on the proposal for a resolution itself was that, although criticisms of the opposition side were drawn up, the only amendment with the option was the Jobbik Hungary Movement in the form of four amendments, which I presented during the committee meeting. The first of the four amendments would amend the text of the decision itself by listing public education and higher education institutions among the organisations involved in the implementation of the programme, in particular with regard to the fact that most public education institutions and even all public education institutions face all forms of disability in their operation. Most of the higher education institutions, besides those with intellectual disabilities, meet people with all kinds of disabilities, especially in higher education institutions, who are currently studying in some higher education institutions with about a thousand disabilities in Hungary. The remaining amendments would have amended the text of the Annex rather than the decision. First of all, the list of principles, because the principles were merged and, in fact, it contained almost all of them compared to previous disability programmes, except for one of the most important ones, the principle of rehabilitation, according to the topic. This is the deficiency that the amendment would have wished to make up for. The third amendment concerned the training of teachers and the situation of teachers. We have noted as a lack of knowledge that the Annex itself does not include the training of teachers of public education institutions, in order to know how and how special methods and possibly special forms of action should be used for children with disabilities, children, children at school, and children with disabilities, and in what form they should be taught, in which way they should be taught, and in which way they should be treated differently than with their intact peers. The fourth amendment concerned the monitoring and monitoring of the programme. We find it odd that, although it defines in three stages the drafting or drafting of a plan for action in relation to the programme, it is necessary to check only half of the programme's time. We believe that it would be reasonable and logical for this monitoring and review to take place after the expiry of a plan of measures. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2015-03-30-332	The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai.
u2015-03-30-333	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to add to the report on the National Disability Programme and on the detailed debate of the committee in the next few minutes that the National Disability Programme, which lies before us, is the third programme that Parliament is discussing. Looking back a little on the previous programs and on the situations of my own and my fellow fates, it is safe to draw a parallel. The first National Disability Programme was born in 1999. That's when I took the state exam without a sign language translator, totally obstructed, so to speak. So I didn't have any access to services or equal opportunities, so to speak. I used to say that I used my options at the time, not my rights, because they weren't then. It was all for the good of college teachers, and I usually took a written exam. In 2006, since the birth of the second disability programme, sign language translation services already exist. We had the right to request an interpreter, but at that time there was no legislation that would have regulated it uniformly, clearly, as it is now, the 2009 Sign Language Act. And now we have the new disability programme, from our own point of view, I think we're doing just fine. There is a sign language law, there is an interpreter service, the Contact interpreter service works, which allows us to use the service without the interpreter's personal presence and to communicate freely. So we have made a lot of progress in the world and we have made a lot of progress in the area of disability. There is also evidence of change and stability in terms of principles. There are principles that have remained unchanged since 1999. For example, I could mention the principle of prevention, the principle of self-determination, the principle of universal design or even the principle of "nothing without us." But there are principles that came into force in 2006, such as the principle of supported decision-making. It's not in there right now, because it's become a drill. We must now move forward and develop in practical implementation. The principle of full and effective participation in society appears as a new principle in this programme. This includes several previous principles, integration, individual needs, the principle of taking them into account, and the principle of normalization, rehabilitation, the principle of equal access. So they are all included in the principle of full and effective participation in society, and a new principle is also the principle of rational adaptation. It can therefore also be seen from a legal point of view that definitions have also changed over time, taking into account the legal wording, needs, needs, and the needs of stakeholders themselves. The same is the case in the area of fundamental objectives, as is the case in the area of action. Education and employment, health, culture, sport, benefits have also been an important and unchanged focus since 1999, so these are the areas where there is always work to be done. This is also emphasised in the disability programme. What is particularly important to me is the area of education and training and, before that, early recognition and early development. Anyone I talk to, anyone I talk to, anyone I listen to about disability, everything goes back to this point: early detection, early development and education, because that's where it all comes from. It will decide how a disabled person finds his place in life, obviously not forgetting the importance and role of the family. Several have missed certain principles or tasks in the disability programme. I'm saying it's a frame right now. I would like to know about the action plan, because that is where the important issues will be decided, and the important things to do will be there. [[22.20]] It is therefore worth explaining here how implementation will be implemented by 2025. And there are two more important areas for me: the area of medical aids, and the area of means of self-living. With technological progress, these areas too, I think it is worth separating. This will happen in the next three years, so the two areas will be separated. For example, the hearing aid will be considered as a tool for self-living, because this is not a tool-based, but a person-based care for the next period. Finally, I would like to stress that this programme, the proposal, was reviewed, discussed and unanimously adopted by the National Disability Council. Allow me to tell you a personal story in closing. This weekend, I was in the theater with my hearing-damaged children. We got an unexpected invitation, we got a ticket on Friday, we can go to the theater, but we didn't have an interpreter. We asked some interpreters to be able to prepare in two days and undertake the theater interpretation. Then we asked the theatre if it was open to bringing an interpreter to the children, and, thank God, they were completely open to it, instead of the usual stunts I had experienced at the theatres; in twenty minutes all the questions were resolved, and the children could enjoy the theatre performance freely. I just wanted to make it clear that this would not require any national disability programme, but would require social awareness and attitudes, inclusive attitudes and inclusive approaches in all areas. This leads back to education again. However, I think that the disability programme will be needed for a long time to draw attention to this, and I hope that Parliament will vote unanimously on this draft. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-30-334	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2015-03-30-335	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to make it clear once again that, despite our critical comments, we will vote in favour of this proposal, this programme. I would like to start by saying that last week this committee meeting was rather unfortunate, all the more so because I did not really understand why we were discussing the programme first and then the report on the implementation of the previous programme later, because there is no logical line in this presentation on the agenda, of course. The other thing I wanted to say was that it was very commendable that the President invited the leaders of the disabled organisations to this committee meeting, but it was unfortunate that they did not get the floor at the end, because it was not clear to them that they could speak only once and they could not express their views. The discussion after the committee meeting showed that there was a desire to add some added value to the implementation plan for disabled organisations. As I said, we talked about the previous implementation a year late, since until 2013, a programme had to be reported on the implementation of a programme between 2007 and 2013. And now it's 2015, there's a year-and-a-half interregnum. With all due respect, have you failed to bring this new program here in a year and a half? Of course, I know there have been serious personal changes in the Ministry that have benefited the Ministry, but you have to tell me this, because it's criticism. I am of the opinion that if we adopt more and more programmes, there should be no withdrawal in the new programme, not in any area. So I stress that the good programme, which is built on one another, is always implemented at a higher level. Let me give you an example, and I mentioned that I would like to express my criticism. Here are the support services. I looked at it in detail, around 2008-2009, around 8 billion were set up to finance support services. In 2013, only HUF 3 billion left. Most of the support services have been destroyed. This is the service that is most involved in helping people with disabilities, and if you look at it, you should have a financing cost of at least HUF 9-9,5 billion in this case, and only one third is available. In the same way, I can say that if there is a need to finance in a service or cash supply and one of its legs is missing, the whole thing will go wrong. That is why I am setting this example, and even now I am not specifically helping support services, but helping a lot of people with disabilities on another service branch, for example, village and folklore services. Dear Friends! If there's gas, it's okay to have a car, it's okay to have a car, but if you don't have a job and you're paid to drive the car and run the service, it's not okay, because you can't have a car full of gas if you don't have someone to do the job. But I can also say the other way around: if there is wages, public costs, and no fuel, the car cannot go out into the farmland as well. It's a moaning business for the rental services. I hope this is going to be something permanent. The more I say this, because it has come to my attention that there have been various professional studies in this area, and, as I hear, more than 60 million forints have been spent, for example, on the accessibility of public transport. I was wondering what the Virgin Mary could do for more than 60 million forints. [[Charles Kontrat: How do you speak, Congressman?!]] All the more so, because there are very serious hiatuses in this area too, the accessibility programme for public transport has virtually stopped, as far as I know. To conclude, I would just like to mention to you that, as I hear, the planning of the 2016 budget year has begun, and Mr Secretary of State said last week that thank you very much, you are making good progress. Then I hope that this action plan will also be conceived in the 2016 budget and that education, employment, access to health services or the creation of social security will be a priority in this area. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-336	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2015-03-30-337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, the most credible ones can speak about these issues, who are also involved in the story. Such a programme is of vital importance, covering a 10-year time band and the internal content of which, of course, you would also like to see the details of the action plan, so you should also be aware of how and how this will be implemented. At a time when nearly 500,000 people in Hungary are affected by this issue on the basis of their own declaration, when 1.6 million people are permanently ill, good estimates may not amount to 500, but rather to 700-800 thousand people who live their daily lives as people with injuries and disabilities. So there are thousands of things to do in this regard. [[22.30]] Moreover, if you look at active age, you can also see that about 60 percent of these people live in the pre-retirement period and 30 percent are under 50 years of age. In this sense, if we go a little further, it is absolutely important to talk about one issue, the period of early recognition, the need for intervention, the provision of the necessary helping hand, and the availability of the source to do so as soon as possible. We do not want to address the issue from the regulatory side, but we want to create the existence of resources. What I see today is that there are disabilities in this regard, i.e. in terms of the creation and provision of resources. It should also be added that we also have the necessary progress in terms of supported jobs on the employment stage. It should also be added that the deprivation of certain provisions in respect of past acts did not help these people's daily lives. But I don't want to talk about it in an exuberant way but with a critical edge, but with a more stimulating and supportive approach. I would therefore like to say that not only by providing direct assistance to people with disabilities, but also by helping people who are helping people with disabilities, it is possible to move forward. To translate the word into one sentence: people who care for people with disabilities, for example, will find themselves with the same support from 2010 to five years, 29 500 forints, and practically not recognized as an employment relationship. It's worth changing, too. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-30-338	I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2015-03-30-339	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the general debate on the proposal, we support the proposal for a decision on a national disability programme. A year and a half in debt to the government. It is important to say that, according to the law, this programme and the action plan for its implementation should have been drawn up already in 2013, but this did not take place in the previous cycle. Since then, there has been no programme, no action plan, no deadlines, no responsibilities and no allocated resources. That is why it is very important that this proposal for a resolution is finally before Parliament. However, it must also be said that, for a ten-year programme, the assessment of the situation is rather rough, superficial and not too objective. As described in the sections on employment, social benefits, rehabilitation and accessibility, there is virtually no real picture of the present situation. In recent years, a number of measures have been taken which have a meaty impact on people with disabilities and those with disabilities, but which are very narrowly addressed only at the level of government propaganda. We can take as an example the restructuring of the employment support scheme or the abolition of the pension system. In both cases, the material only briefly states that the changes were successful. Perhaps it would have been better to look at the impact of the measures taken in recent years on the assessment of the current situation. Review how the changes affected the income situation, equal opportunities, access to benefits and services of those affected. It would have been worth mentioning the extent to which the principles, which were the basis for previous programmes, have been implemented. For example, how much we have managed to involve people with disabilities and organisations representing them in the decisions, how the National Disability Council worked and we could continue in the last cycle, in the spirit of the principle that we do not have us. Due to an inadequate assessment of the situation, the proposed directions are also enlarged and undeveloped. At the level of the declarations of principle, the programme's part on the proposed measures is moving, with which, of course, one can agree, but one feels like reading the previous programmes. While the actions taken and the progress made on equal opportunities for people with disabilities should be reflected in the newer programmes, we can read the same declarations over and over again. It's like time has stopped. This is precisely because there has been no tangible progress for the disabled in recent years, and even their income situation has deteriorated, their employment situation has not improved substantially, their families' poverty has continued. Complex rehabilitation and equal access remained an unattainable dream for them. That is why it is important to know exactly what will be in the action plan, what deadlines, and whether there will be funding for them in the next year's budget. What will inclusive education, open labour market integration, complex rehabilitation and equal access to practical measures mean? Will the education of children with special needs be strengthened, labour market services for job support will be increased, budget resources for supporting employment will be increased and the funding of support services for self-living will be increased? As well as whether the complex rehabilitation system is being developed, will the accessibility program be accelerated? These questions will be answered by the action plan and the budget, as well as by government steps next year, which, of course, we will be following up on. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-340	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a very short time frame.
u2015-03-30-341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State whether he has learned something about the problem raised at the last committee meeting, the accessibility of railway stations, in connection with the renovations that are taking place today, Mr Secretary of State, how they will remedy this problem. At the committee meeting, I forgot to say that we are talking about people with disabilities, but in the case of accessibility, it should be pointed out that this problem concerns not only disabled people, but also elderly people, difficult people and mothers and fathers with small children using the stroller. In the last chapter of the disability programme, they write about implementation, but there is no mention of what was a separate chapter in the previous national programme about what is on the budget side. There is no mention of the resources needed to implement the programme, which previously appeared in a separate chapter, and one of the most important items is the budget for implementing this programme. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-30-342	I now give the floor to Congressman Cutter Sebestyén.
u2015-03-30-343	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As we have already said in the general debate and in the committee meeting, we will, of course, support the adoption of the proposal for a decision, of course, with the wording of our criticisms, of which we have tabled a few amendments. We will support it because we believe that it should be a real principle that disability should be seen as a matter above parties and factions and as a whole national matter. And although we consider the programme before us to be incomplete, we believe that we can agree with the principles that have been formulated in it. We consider it to be incomplete; it is enough to compare it with previous disability programmes, which dealt with certain issues in more detail. I agree with my fellow Member, Gergely Tapolczai, and I look forward to the establishment of the action plan, but I will continue to maintain what I tabled in the amendment that we can only effectively monitor the implementation and implementation of the action plan, whether it is the Parliament or the advocacy organisations representing the parties concerned, if they are monitored not at half the time, but at the end of the action plans. Let's look at where we stand now, and then perhaps we can take into account what these organisations, or even the Parliament, think is the point that we have reached, whether we have done what was in the one-third action plan or not, and that is how we can take the next steps. One can face the fact that it is possible to create a beautiful programme, as an annex to the proposal for a resolution, to put a very nice concept, a substance that contains very nice guidelines on the table, but when one finds that there is a one and a half year delay - something that we have heard in committee that the elections have come and that the wind of other laws has swept this thing away - we think that this issue must be a priority. [[22.40]] And if campaign amendments and campaign proposals come in, they can't stop saying that we did have a time obligation to accept the new disability program. But if we take into account that the action plan will also be adopted this year, and if, say, we want to parallel this action plan to the programme, and take into account what my fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai also said, whether it is necessary to change the access to medical aids or to change the place of residence of people with disabilities or people with changed lives, as opposed to the 2015 budget adopted last year by the Parliament, we see that the budget for the conversion of the living environment, the place of residence, is smaller than in 2014. Somehow they're not parallels. As a basic principle, self-living and job support are laid down, compared to these goals, we actually find in the 2015 budget again less than what was in the 2014 budget. Thus, the laws actually currently in force, or even the laws adopted at the end of last year, which apply to the whole year 2015, are contrary to those set out in the programme at certain points, and this therefore makes it doubtful whether or not the programme can be implemented at all. I think these problems should be dealt with in this way. I can only say that, unfortunately, in many cases, the situation has not changed. Unfortunately, the accessibility of means of transport, public transport or even the accessibility of public transport and public transport means for people with disabilities can be said to be almost the limit of the impossible. It is enough to take into account the railway stations spoken by the speakers before me, but we can also look at the bus terminals or the accessibility of other public transport means. This should be changed, and what I have said many times about accessibility, is that it would be time to review why investments in accessibility in Hungary cost so much, why a very well-paying plant could be installed on it, and why, moreover, we insist on things, objects, solutions that are trending in Hungary today, but in many cases, they are useless; why we insist on constructions that are unsuitable for this function, whether we are talking about setting up a side-room or making it accessible, or on other issues that come up. So I think that by cheapening accessibility, or by bringing it to a reasonable, rational price, affordable level, or simplifying implementation, we could make progress and, in time, we could achieve full accessibility. But once again, I say that the proposal for a resolution will be adopted, because we agree with what is stated in it. We have also indicated with amendments, and we have also indicated in the debate that, of course, they are intended to be added, in some cases they need to be improved. We only have doubts, because, as I have already said, the laws currently in force are in many cases contrary to what is stated in this regard. But once again, we agree with what has been said, and so we will vote in favour in the final vote. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-344	I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment within a maximum of 10 minutes. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor.
u2015-03-30-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank you, as I have done in the general debate, and also the proposals made at the committee meeting. I think the most important summary is to highlight that, as we have heard, each group will vote for this proposal, this proposal. I think that one of the most important things in Hungary today is that, with the authority of the Parliament, political consensus can be behind the disability issue, and this, the case of people with disabilities, their support and their social inclusion, is a total national consensus and a national issue. I think that one of the most important messages about tonight should be that this kind of consensus should also penetrate society, because the most important thing in the case of people with disabilities is perhaps thinking. Indeed, not only through incentives, not only through the regulatory system, but also by all, employers, institutions and service providers, the natural aspect of taking into account the aspects of people with disabilities in the provision of their work, services and public services. I would like to highlight some of the issues that have just been said here and I would like to reflect very briefly. On the one hand, Member Ikotity asked about the operation of the National Disability Council. The Council has met twice in the last few months, and in the coming months there is preparation for the next meeting on the action plan. So we are trying to continue an extremely dense and extremely intensive dialogue with the maintainers, service providers and representatives of disabled organisations. We have talked about the fact that, in some respects, this proposal reiterates the previous plan. I think that Mr Gergely Tapolczai's list has shown precisely, point by point, where the criteria, principles and objectives where this strategy has been renewed, where it uses new concepts and new principles. I think that the strategy cannot be accused of repeating previous principles. This is also an answer to the rehab aspect of Congressman Sebestyén Vágó. Mr Tapolczai pointed out precisely that this is enshrined in the principle of full and effective social participation in principle three. This was also a question of what we can say about resources and details. The fact is that the action plan, as we have repeatedly said, will contain these in detail, and, as I said earlier, the preparation of the action plan is under way, and we very much hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. This will also include allocation of resources. I don't have an answer for the train stations yet, but the job is out. As I indicated earlier, we will examine all the points raised by your representatives. Mr Korózs suggested that 8-9 billion were available in 2009. To be precise, 4 billion were available to finance support services in 2009. It's important that we put this right. Then, the financing of support services was an important change in the elimination of so-called larger bushes. It was important to stress that. Overall, we must say that the proposal itself sets out the principles that the programme aims to achieve, i.e. full and effective social participation, universal planning, the principle of, without us, will be able to implement and apply effectively, so that it can actually implement in Hungary a disability policy with a horizontal approach, which affects each sector, each policy in a pervasive way, both in the health sector and in the social services sector and in employment. I do not want to express previous results, but there was also a comment on employment: in the previous four years, the number of people with disabilities and disabilities who are involved in supported employment has increased from 43 thousand to 77 thousand. And then even for services, let me say a word, because there was a question about that. There are 660 people with disabilities who are going to move out of large institutions in these very months to subsidised housing. It is therefore also clear in the area of social services that the results of the previous four years are to be continued. That is what we want to continue to do. I wanted to make these direct comments. Thank you once again for your support and for your support for this proposal, both in the principles and in the concrete ones. We will, of course, be in touch with the action plan as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[22.50]]
u2015-03-30-346	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary in the context of the establishment of a national passenger information system and the regulation of the exchange of information in the framework of cooperation on criminal and/or police matters and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The submission is T/3404. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Commission's proposal for an amendment closing a detailed discussion of the Defence and Police Committee as a designated committee T/3404/8. and T/3404/9. was given to them. The report of the Judicial Committee as a committee for discussion is T/3404/10. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3404/12. and the summary report is T/3404/13. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-30-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3404 at its meeting on 26 March. The draft law amending certain laws required in order to establish a national passenger data information system and to regulate the exchange of information in the framework of cooperation on criminal and/or police matters has been submitted by the Committee with 27 votes in favour, together with four abstentions, and a summary amendment report. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Defence and Police Committee, which resulted in the 1999 LXXV on the rules for combating organised crime and related phenomena and related legislative amendments. Law No. 4 In addition to a taxatical list of organised crime offences, its sections and related sections include, in addition to the abuse of the unique identification mark, the crime of smuggling of persons. I would like to spare my fellow Members from complicated technical terms and phrases at this late hour, so I would just like to refer to what is new compared to what is meant by the amendments to the law adopted in 2013 and to the related laws. The Passenger Name Record Act, known as PNR, adds a new task to the powers of the Organised Crime Centre, thus, as a Passenger Data Information Unit, this organisation will carry out the collection, analysis and management of Passenger Name Records as of 1 January 2015. The Centre's new task as a Passenger Information Unit is to manage and analyse passenger registration data transmitted by airlines in accordance with EU directives. The handling of passenger data on external flights arriving or departing from our territory will improve the preventive, exploratory and investigative activities of the cooperating bodies, in addition to the application of data protection standards. However, with the entry into force of the law, it became necessary to clarify certain provisions, to transfer certain improvements to the law, in order to ensure that the national passenger information system fully complies with the objectives set out in the law. The most important element of this is to focus on the detection, investigation and avoidance of national security-related and organised crime-related crimes. In order to identify suspects by means of this amendment, the National Passenger Information Authority may, in addition to the Passenger Registration Data of the Organisational Crime Centre, obtain prior passenger data for the purpose of a successful risk analysis, by means of individual requests for data from the police, in order to identify persons who have become suspicious in the course of risk analysis. I think it is important to note in the presentation of the Commission's opinion on the bill that the Ministry of Interior has consulted the National Data Protection Authority and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the preparation of the legislation, so the proposal also has the agreement of both bodies. I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-30-348	Dear Parliament, I ask the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, if he wishes to comment.
u2015-03-30-349	No, thank you.
u2015-03-30-350	All right. The designated committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now it will be the members' speeches within the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Congressman Péter Agh came to me in writing. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-351	Dear House, Last week's events again focused attention on air traffic. It is true that this was not an act of terrorism, but such events also encourage decision-makers to improve aviation safety. Many innocent lives are at stake in aviation disasters or acts of terrorism. The European Union, including our country, is committed to making air transport safer, one of the fundamental elements of which could be police cooperation under the Passenger Data Information System in the future. Cooperation will improve the preventive, exploratory and investigative activities of European bodies and enhance the security of our country and the European Union. To set up the analytical centres necessary for cooperation, we can say that commitment is global, and we pointed out this at the previous stage of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, The establishment of the National Passenger Information Unit made it clear that the risk analysis carried out on the basis of the rules adopted in 2013 could not, on its own, detect suspicious persons. The necessary amendments will allow the Centre to carry out its activities more effectively, which is in the interest of all of us, as this can contribute to the development of aviation safety and improving its conditions. We therefore call for the support of the proposal to this end. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-352	I ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't think so. That concludes the debate. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment. [[Charles Kontra says yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-30-353	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the general debate on the bill and during the Commission's hearing, it was clear that this bill was important and necessary and that this proposal was supported by this House. The government considered one of the five amendments tabled to be eligible: among the organised crime-related crimes committed in the criminal association, it proposed the representation of a crime of trafficking in human beings. In order to combat organised crime groups based on illegal migration more effectively, it is appropriate to add the facts of trafficking to the criminality of organised crime. The adoption of the bill will help to improve the exchange of information between EU Member States, which will significantly increase the security of our country and of the European Union as a result of the efficient operation of the Passenger Data Information System. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-354	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on the following sitting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Today, after the agenda, Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, spoke with the title: "Food-self-sufficiency." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-355	Thank you. Dear House, Doesn't it feel good to be proud of our common successes, our domestic achievements? However, we are now paying less attention to Hungarian products. Knowing the great qualities of our country, many think that our food industry is self-sufficient, even though the numbers show otherwise. We also import significant quantities of vegetables and fruit. Nearly 40 percent of the food on Hungarian tables comes from abroad. That was only 20 percent ten years ago. Over the last ten years, the production of domestic raspberry has decreased to five percent and the juicy plum has dropped by 40,000 tonnes. It weighs just as much as four Elizabeth Bridges. Our imports have doubled over the last ten years, while the population has decreased by 2 percent. [[23.00]] On the shelves of the supermarkets, we can also see increasing quantities of foreign goods. But not only exotic products, but also, unfortunately, tomatoes, peppers, other processed products, but even spice peppers from abroad. Our production of onions has also decreased by more than 65 percent in the last ten years. However, a Hungarian product with excellent taste could easily reject foreign goods. Nine of our sugar factories closed one by one, putting families traditionally from sugar beet production in a difficult position. Today we get 60% of the sugar from abroad, and all we have left is one sugar factory. Over the last ten years we have had 200,000 tonnes less fresh domestic pork on our tables, which meant more than HUF 50 billion in revenue losses for Hungarian farmers. In the case of delicious and healthy domestic cow's milk production decreased by 300 million litres over ten years, at the expense of our excellent dairy farmers. With this volume, 120 Olympic swimming pools could be filled. With conscious shopping, we can reverse this negative process with proper care. However, if we buy imported products, our own economies may become even more deprived, jobs could be lost, and shops will be forced to buy goods from abroad. However, the value of high-quality domestic products, as the value of our increasingly shrinking agricultural areas, is also our unused land. That is why it is so important that we help the Hungarian economies to strengthen with our conscious decisions. In the last 20 years, we have produced 40 percent less of the delicious domestic apple, because more and more foreign fruits have appeared on the shelves. It is well known that imports of food sometimes pose a health risk and take a huge distance to reach us. For example, tomatoes travel an average of 2480 kilometers until they reach Hungarian buyers. Days, maybe weeks, before the so-called fresh goods are on the shelves. In contrast, the excellent and succulent domestic goods can be on our table in hours. In the meantime, remember the most important thing: our right choice is supported by a lot of arguments: besides the unique traditions of our natural characteristics and agriculture, about 6 million hectares of quality producing land and 180 thousand professional farmers. A very good example is the success story of excellent Hungarian wines. Thanks to the belief in Hungarian wine, this domestic sector has developed enormously over the last 20 years. Our wines receive the prestigious international awards. Due to a significant increase in quality, 95 percent of the shops on the shelves meet domestic products. Let's do everything we can to keep this success story going. One small step now, one conscious customer is enough to make a positive change. The person who buys the product with the protection of Hungarian products supports the strengthening of our agriculture and the domestic market, because the money spent on the quality Hungarian product increases Hungarian businesses, so it will also benefit you. Let's turn the process in a positive direction. Find the Hungarian goods, ask after them, and whenever possible buy Hungarian products! The text just read was the text of Hungarian advertising banned by the EU, which was banned in 2013. I added only a few figures: the proportion of Hungarian food, which is 40%, comes from abroad, and this was still 20 percent ten years ago. These are the data of the Central Statistical Office, not the results of some kind of propaganda steel survey. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-30-356	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for the next speech after the next agenda:. The children of Kaba are worth less? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-30-357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not tonight, tonight, when I would like to talk about this topic for the first time, but the National Assembly today discussed the bill on the implementation of the facilities development necessary for the organisation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Műjump, Műlúk and Open Water Championships in Budapest. First of all, I was thinking about canceling my agenda for today, because it was a long day, but I had to talk about it again, because it is very clear that if the government has something very important, then they can bring it to the House very quickly, we can negotiate it very quickly, we will have the debate on it, and the next day we will vote on it. This law was exactly the same. It's very important to the government. I would like to draw attention to what I have repeatedly said about the chaos caused by the introduction of daily physical education in public education and the anomalies in physical education, and I always bring up children in Kaba. While sports facilities and stadiums are growing in the country, children do not have a problem with their daily physical education, even with simple gym equipment, or even lack of physical education teachers is a problem for everyday physical education. Allow me to be a little selfish, since I live in Kaban, I'm a Kabai. I'm going to stand up after the agenda so many times, and I'm going to tell you so many times until the Fidesz-KDNP government finds it important to realize that there are children living in Kaban, and the children of Kaba are one of the biggest problems now that they don't have the right gym that they can do everyday physical education properly every day. I have to say here that the introduction of daily physical education and the culmination of this chaos will take place from the academic year 2015/16, since then every year of physical education will be introduced. I think that the most feared is not the children of this period, but the teachers themselves, what will happen next, because it is now true that what they have invented everyday physical education, against which, I believe, no one with a good feeling can object, and I myself say that children should exercise as much as possible, but to do so, we need to make laws that are provided with the conditions. I think that if the government can decide on such a matter so quickly, the situation of Hungarian children must also be important in terms of supply. I ask the Hungarian Government to consider reviewing this law and to stop this programme until appropriate infrastructure improvements are put behind it. If I have these, I think I can go home, too, and feel free to say that, finally, this problem has been solved. Until then, every week when I get the chance, I will tell you that for Fidesz-KDNP, children in Kaba are worth less than children in other settlements, where sports facilities have been built. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herringes and István Ikotity applaud.]]
u2015-03-30-358	Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech after the next agenda:. A copy of the letter of the high school director in Karcag. Firdausí with the title Shahname. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to talk to you about two nice areas of literature, on the one hand, and the city of Karcag, on the other hand, and through the work to be presented here, about its Karcag aspects. Surely, even those interested in the greatest art lovers and literature have not heard of the Iranian work, perhaps one of the world's most extensive writings with its 120,000 lines and 60,000 pairs of poems. In comparison, Homer's Odyssey contains 13 450 rows. His book Firdauszi Shahnáme deals with Persian storytellings from legendary kings to Arab conquest. The individual myths are only loosely linked, but the battle between Iran and ancient Turan goes on with the homeland of the nomadic Turks. The narrative of the Book of Kings, Shahname, was recorded before the millennial anniversary. The poet Dakiki was commissioned to create the national work, but his early death prevented him from writing only one tenth of the work. This was followed by the work of Firdauszi, who, by the way, had written this work for thirty years, and the remaining verse, the remaining nearly 100 to 110 thousand rows, was completed by himself. She's over 70 by the time she finished this by 1010. There were many translations of the extensive work in Hungary, and there were many translation attempts, but perhaps one of the most extensive and most original ones was translated by Dr. László Gaál. [[23.10]] However, the work was made by XX. Géza Képes, Gábor Devecsi also translated it in the century, yet László Gaál's work was the only work made of the original work written in the language. And this was the joyful occasion when Karcagon, not so long ago, was presented in the framework of a deficiency publication, with the presence of the Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Budapest, who pointed out that without the outstanding Karcag school director, Iranist László Gaál, there would be a shortage of Hungarian-Persian cultural relations. In addition, the embassy has purchased a significant amount of books with the aim of promoting and disseminating the progress of Iranian and Hungarian cultural relations through official meetings and cultural meetings. So allow me to briefly commend Dr. László Gaál, the Iranian Research School Director of Karcagi. László Gaál was born in 1891 in Karcagon. By the way, he was a university professor of classic philology, the candidate of linguistic sciences, but he didn't start his life any easier either, because he worked in Nagykőrös for the first time after his degree in philosophy for a year, and then for 20 years after that he worked as Karcagon High School Director. In the year of the turn of events, as many others were worthy of recognition, he was moved from the position of director to rest, then he was an acting lecturer of the Faculty of Philosophy of ELTE in Budapest, as well as a teacher of Sanskrit, Avesta, Operzsa and Ossét languages. From 1957 to Debrecen, he founded the classic philology department and worked there until his death until 1964. He's been buried in a caricature, and he's resting in a Karcagon right now. László Gaál's iránist work was partly on the lines of contemporaries and great predecessors such as Ármin Vámbéry and Sándor Kégl, who set up the Department of Eastern Philology at the University of Budapest and where they taught for a quarter of a century; first Vámbéry and later Kégl. László Gaál's work, however, not only left a deep impression in the cultural relations of Iran-Hungarian: under his board of directors, such excellent students worn out the bench of the Reformed High School in Karcag, as Imre Gergely's translator, János Gergely, Dr. Imre Tóth, professor of linguistic history, György Bodnár, academic, and to say artists, Árpád Somogyi, Munkácsy-winning sculptor, and the outstanding painter, László Bod. So he's been driving an apple mate all along, which is worthy of recognition. So it is safe to say that László Gaál is the XX. He is one of the most significant Hungarian iraniists of the century, and a philologist of the preislamic history of the Iranian religion, who should know his work much more widely. And to give you a personal inspiration, it was an honor for me to talk about László Gaál and his works in the National Assembly, because I myself went to this high school, right, fifty years later, I had worn the benches of the high school, where I could meet every day with his carefully groomed traditions and work. I trust that his memory and work will enrich the storehouse of Karcag and Iranian-Hungarian traditions for a long time, and that I will be able to bring to Parliament another person from my own school and rightly famous Karcag after László Gaál. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-360	After the next agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar spoke with the title "Protecting the Hungarian Sugar Industry." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-361	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I regret that no one on the government's part considered this matter so important that it might be able to answer or listen to it at all. The fact is that from 2017 the sugar quota will be removed from Hungary, which in a normal state, a prepared country, could be good news in its own industry and agriculture, as this will allow us to recover at least part of our sugar production completely self-rejected under socialist governments, but in our present state it looks like that this will mean nothing but that the only sugar factory that still works in Kaposvár will shut down its operation, at least all market analysts will draw attention to this. Errors in the past should also be mentioned when we talk about the Hungarian sugar industry. Since the period called the change of regime, the sugar industry has fallen in Hungary in all respects, but the final judgment defines the socialist governments prior to our accession to the European Union, as this was the state that allowed us to talk about Kaposvár. The MSZP practically gave up 75% of the Hungarian sugar industry in a self-rewarding manner by not applying for such a quota and considered only the remaining amount necessary. There has not been much progress in the period since then. During the previous cycle, after 2010, Jobbik's demand and pressure were put up by a committee to examine the sugar industry and its destruction, which was, by the way, my previous term, I can say, the most learned six months ago, but this adopted report no longer contains the most fundamental questions and attempts to bring to the most fundamental responsibility which Jobbik would otherwise have wanted to include. We did not really understand how a committee, which, as I said, worked for six months, could put a report on the table that does not include, in addition to political responsibility, who could or should be legally held accountable; it does not include how the Hungarian government should act in the future both towards Brussels and through legislation in order to eradicate this unblessed state. What is this blissful state? We are here today to cover only about a third of our own sugar consumption from Kaposvár, which, by the way, I note in brackets - is not a Hungarian-owned company, but it is still a foam on the cake; the rest is all obtained from abroad, while we were able to deliver sugar abundantly abroad in the 1980s. So in this way, despite the fact that this report contained who we had listened to, despite the fact that it described the process in which the Hungarian sugar industry had been destroyed from the beginning of the 1990s, it did not include a proposal for forward-looking measures for the future, nor did it mention or allow the accountability of the guilty parties. But we do need to prepare for the future, as I said, this date of 2017 is floating in the air. By abolishing the quota and turning sugar into a completely free market throughout the European Union, it is necessary to deal with large multinational companies that are transversal across the world, who have no interest in bringing the sugar industry back in Hungary. It is not, however, that only such large global companies are marketable. Jobbik believes that local, local, medium-sized plants capable of supplying one or two counties would be able to stay on their feet, they would be able to form an integral part of the Hungarian countryside again. After all, let us not forget that when we talk about the sugar industry, it is not just a matter of farmers producing carrots, and it is then being processed in a plant. Many other branches and sectors are connected, rural life flourished around sugar factories, from the smallest family businesses to livestock farms everyone benefited from having a well-functioning sugar factory in their surroundings. This should not be ignored when we talk about the huge loss of our country and, above all, the Hungarian countryside when the Hungarian sugar industry was destroyed. We're talking about a real veterinary horse. The way in which sugar factories were converted from Hungarian property to foreign speculator capital by the former governments was an example of the reduction of the Hungarian food industry. That is why I wanted to draw attention to this and to prepare the government for 2017, because it will not be a simple procession. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-362	Mr Ander Balázs asked to speak after the next agenda, with the title Rekviem for the small villages in Somogy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-363	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, like the oppressed nations of the world, that we Hungarians do not have much reason to be a fan of American politics, and yet I would quote a statesman there, who lived two centuries and about two centuries ago, to begin my speech after his wise thoughts. Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States of America, wrote to his friend John Jay in 1785 before his presidency, saying: "The farmers are the most valuable citizens. They are the strongest, the most independent, the most virtuous, and they are linked to their country with the most lasting bond and stick to its freedom and interests. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[23.20]] With his words - at least as far as the members of the Jobbik faction are concerned - we agree in every respect. This may be the case for communists and for extreme liberals from a capital with them, because of their other intentions. There was a reason why they wanted to destroy the Irish core of the peasantry that made up the tribe of Hungarians, which kept the nation for a thousand years. It is no coincidence that the raging anti-townism of rural devastating campaigns for decades, a multitude of measures to destroy rural Hungary. In a thousand years, as Tormay Cecile wrote, a huge tree grew from our land, this exchange is the Hungarian people, whose roots are the peasantry. The collectivisation was not enough to implement the communist plans, so it is known that the strategists of the MSZMP started to develop the concept of the national settlement network development, which was finally adopted in 1971. About two thirds of our villages, 18 percent of the population, and then two million people, were declared settlements without role. Local development has been banned, schools have been closed, socio-economically important facilities have been moved to district centres. With the mass wing lines closed and the necessary road improvements stopped, they forced the younger generations who were not hoping for a local perspective to leave. The settlements that were declared non-participant, virtually doomed to death, began to grow old, their demographic potential collapsed, and, in parallel with the change in age structure, their vitality was increasingly lost. Old age was avoided only by villages where there was a large population of settlements on the part of the Gypsy. In this case, however, the self - regenerating misery and spontaneous segregation sealed the fate of the enigmatic village. Although the implementation of the concept of the Romanian dictator Ceaușescu's plan to destroy the village was stopped in 1985, on the one hand, many settlements have already suffered irreversible damage, and, on the other hand, another cataclysm was soon brought to the Hungarian countryside by the derailed regime change. The lecturer of the SZDSZ major ideologists in the State Reform Committee also threw it in the face of the Hungarians considered by the extreme liberals only to be Mucsai Nazis, that the village was an unviable medieval failure. And government propaganda or not, but we still have huge problems with rural development. In the absence of well-coordinated, state-funded complex programmes, the population retention power of small settlements remains low. The emptying of our ancient villages is rapid, and in many places it remains only the sinking layers bound to a clot by poverty, radically separated from organic peasant culture. And if we look at the sad fate of Somogyország, we can say that a good one-sixth of the 120,000 residential properties here are already empty, largely unsold, and if the population is running out in the last two or three years, then it should be said that in 130 to 140 years, the population of the county will be reduced to zero. It would be time for government attention to avoid small settlements becoming Cactus. In fact, Kakpuszta is an icon of the tragedy that plagues these small settlements; he used to have a school, church, police station, pub, hundreds of inhabitants, but his last resident died in 2006, and the forest reclaimed the ruined settlement; I would like to tell you about this later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-364	For a final statement after the agenda, Mr Sebestyén Vágó spoke with the title "Child protection." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-30-365	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my speech after an earlier agenda, I spoke about the interruption in the operation of the child protection signalling system in the case of Szentmiklós case, and I thought that I would like to continue to talk about certain participants in the child protection signalling system and the child protection system itself, in particular about the anomalies of their operation and the difficulties in their operation, which very often prevent them from being able to participate effectively in the operation of the child protection signalling system. In my speech after today's agenda, I would like to talk about child welfare services, one of the most important participants in the child protection signalling system. Child welfare services whose employees are in the same shoes as any other employee of the social care system at national level, i.e. they have been saying that for almost a year and a half or now they have been constantly hearing about the introduction of a social career model, about changing the situation of their very poor wage system, but unfortunately they have to experience that they are constantly being deceived. Now the latest promise is that the social career model will be introduced on 1 January next year, but, as I said, this promise has been going on for years, the participants in the system are not so confident that it will happen. When we stand in Hungary today that a very important task, a person who performs the job of caring for the family of a child welfare service, is in very many cases in a worse financial situation than those who should be helped than those who should, and in many cases, need to think about whether or not to continue working as a caregiver, or, unfortunately, fleeing to the West in many cases, even carrying out a caregiver's job - we are talking about very high-quality, very well-educated and very well-educated people - so rather, they choose to do care-care or even medical assistance work in one of the countries of Western Europe instead of performing their profession. The first problem that should be solved is that social professionals educated in our colleges and universities should not be lost, their knowledge should not be lost, and that we should keep them in the profession with a salary that recognises their profession. The other big problem is the question of financing the service. The Child Protection Act has been in place since 97. I myself worked as a family care provider in the child welfare service many 10 to 15 years ago, even then the fact that one family care provider has to work with a much higher number of cases than required by the legislation; now, this has not changed by 2015 and we do not see any change in the steps. How can we expect quality work from someone who, on the one hand, is underpaid and, on the other hand, according to his work, by the law, and by the way, which is equivalent to the loadability of an eight-hour man, that case number has to work two to three times, many times five to six times? The other problem with funding is that we do not make a difference, the same funding is given to a small town in Western Hungary, where the crime rate is much smaller or the number of problematic cases is much smaller. Take Kőszeg as an example in Western Hungary, he is given the same and same standard for the operation of the child welfare service as, say, Ozd, where we know very well what strain and problems the employees of the child welfare service there may face. And while I'm talking about these problems that they're facing, family care workers in the child welfare service still don't get the legal protection they deserve, because the reason they don't do anything is to keep them in fear of the living environment they have to go to every day. If they were given a higher level of protection in the Criminal Code as individuals with public duties, they would be given higher protection in imaginable or other legislation, which would help them to do their job even more effectively. I think that in the fact that the child protection signalling system is not working properly, many times the least of those who are involved in this, in many cases it is the government's attitude and the legal environment, the legal background, that hinders this. In my series, I would like to highlight these anomalies and errors, hoping that something of these may change. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-30-366	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m., closing the session. [[Meeting ended at 23:29 p.m.]]
