u2015-05-13-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 29th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who is monitoring our meeting today. In line with the agreed agenda, three general debates will take place today, and the first of them will be the general debate on the draft law amending certain health and health insurance laws until closure. The submission was made by T/4646. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Gábor Sombor, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-13-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Already, twice a year, so-called "health salad law' is amended, which, as it stands, requires a significant number of amendments to Parliament's debate. In general, the laws contain comprehensive general provisions, but health and health insurance are regulated by a large number of laws, in which we carry out two reviews every time, every year, and partly the obligations of the European Union, and partly the amendments that arise and arise with the intention of improving it, are included in the bill. This is the case now, because the following, as I inform you about the amendments, it will be noticeable that, in many cases, minor changes that appear to be technical can significantly influence and improve the text of the law and thus the lives of citizens, patients and users of services. Given the high public health importance of the subject, perhaps one of the most important issues raised in the salad law is the amendment of the Non-Smoker Protection Act. I'd like to start with that. This requires a brief review of the progress we have made in recent years in this area. I would add that in general, Hungarian health is mainly associated with negative indicators, but there are several legal provisions in which every member of Parliament can be proud, since we have several laws in international healthcare organisations or in the professional public health community that are mentioned as examples in other EU Member States or even at WHO level. One of these is the Non-Smoker Protection Act, which was decided by the Parliament by a 84 percent majority in 2011. According to this, smoking is prohibited from 1 January 2012 in public, enclosed spaces and community spaces. On the basis of public opinion polls and audits, it can be concluded that the social acceptance of the amendment is high, 85%, and that it is also appropriate to comply with it. I believe that, in view of its significant long-term public health results, this legislation is particularly valuable. Hungary has joined countries that have implemented one of Europe's state-of-the-art anti-smoking regulations, which also meet the European Union's and WHO's health policy professional expectations and recommendations. From 2013, the vast majority of tobacco products can only be placed on the market with health warnings combined with images and illustrations. Places, premises and public areas affected by smoking restrictions and designated for smoking shall be marked prominently as from 1 March 2014 using a uniform, defined content and form of inscription and indication. A local tariff blue number and a website containing information on smoking cessation can also be found on the packaging of tobacco products, in combination with 42 images, as well as in the text of the inscription and indication of places covered by the statutory smoking restriction or designated for smoking. This amendment is intended to harmonise legislation, given that on 3 April 2014, the European Parliament and the Council issued a new Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. The deadline for harmonisation is 20 May 2016. The approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States of the Union concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products has been over ten years since the adoption of Directive 37. Since then, international scientific, technical and market developments have made it necessary to review it. The directive adopted in 2014 retains the provisions of the earlier Directive on a number of points, but also substantially expands the scope of the provisions. It bans tobacco products with characteristic flavours and tobacco products containing flavours in its components, which do not, however, apply to tobacco products other than cigarettes and cigarette tobacco, i.e. cigars, cigarillos and pipe tobacco. At the same time, Member States may derogate from the prohibition for cigarettes with a market turnover of more than 3 per cent and for cigarette tobacco until 20 May 2020. The Directive obliges tobacco operators to submit detailed reports on the ingredients used in tobacco products in the Member States and bans the display of any advertising or misleading elements on the packaging. In addition, it amends the provisions on health warnings on the packaging of tobacco products and related products. Cigarette boxes and the packaging of tobacco products intended for the rolling of cigarettes shall be provided with health warnings consisting of pictures and text, which shall cover 65% of the surface of the front and back. The framework for the transposition of the directive will now be laid down at the legislative level in the implementing regulation of the bill, with further important amendments to bring about harmonisation. For example, the prohibition on the placing on the market of tobacco products with characteristic flavours and tobacco products containing flavours in its components may be recorded here, with effect from 20 May 2020 for menthol cigarettes and menthol cigarettes. In order to transpose the directive, it became necessary to clarify the law on excise duty and the marketing of excise goods and the so-called pocket package, which is about changing the required quantity in a box in relation to the number of cigarettes. I consider the amendment of the pharmaceutical law to be a very important element of the bill. [[9.10]] Some patients may have a chance of healing with medicinal products that are yet to be approved. Therefore, in areas where no effective medicinal product is yet available, in order to broaden the possibilities of medications, we introduce the institution of pre- marketing authorisation administration of pre-marketing medicinal products on the basis of information obtained in clinical trials with promising results. Of course, this can be done in a specific circle, under the strict conditions listed in the legislation. This provision addresses the problems of many patients for whom, as the only option at present, therapeutic tools, medicines that have already shown results are survival or even survival, and I consider this to be an extremely important element of the bill. The amendment to the Act on Pharmacy also clarifies the regulation on the so-called aid to be concluded between the marketing authorisation holders of medicinal products receiving social security aid and the National Health Insurance Fund, which relates to the obligation to pay the payment provided for in the contract. This strengthens Parliament's intention and previous decisions to ensure the safety and price efficiency of the supply of medicinal products. Another important element is that in the field of pharmacy administration, the bill seeks to improve the supply of medicines to the population. To this end, we create the possibility of setting up a branch drugstore in settlement areas that have a partial government and the population of the settlement, and the number of existing pharmacies makes it impossible to establish a new public pharmacy. We will ensure that there is no obstacle to the establishment of a new branch drugstore if the operator of the pharmacy that is primarily authorised for the establishment of the branch drugstore does not make a statement of his intention to establish it within the time limit specified at the request of the authority. In addition, we provide for a minimum period of service for the public pharmacy in order to ensure that pharmacies in the municipality are properly accessible to patients. This provision improves the situation in the supply of medicinal products to many municipalities and parts of settlements that have not been able to take advantage of this option under these legislative provisions. The pharmacies are also associated with a minor amendment to the Health Data Management Act, which, in the context of the preservation of the health record, requires that if the original foreign prescription is returned at the request of the patient, the pharmacy retains the copy for five years. The amendment to the Act on the Public Health and Administrative Activities sets out provisions in the event of a sudden need for action allowing the necessary intervention in these cases. In the context of the tasks of the Public Health Administration, if a healthcare provider is temporarily unable to provide patients in a given profession due to a sudden obstacle, the licensing authority should take immediate action to ensure continued patient care. The rapid taking of measures is important because of health safety and should also be informed to the provider's maintainer and the National Rescue Service. Before we think of it, the point of this provision is that there are a lot of renovations and investments in the health institutions of the country, where for certain periods certain professions need to be regrouped for objective reasons, and there have been administrative problems that have not been dealt with by the legislation in the past. The amendment of the law on compulsory health insurance provides a legitimate need to enable the customer to choose electronic administration within fair health services in the case of the procedure for granting aid for the price of the medicinal product, the nutritional supplement satisfying the particular nutritional needs and the medical aid or the reimbursement fee. With this measure, the procedure and administration will move forward in the electronic, digital direction, which is the objective of the coming years, so that we can achieve this in its entirety. It is also an important amendment to extend the scope of fair health services with additional support. With regard to the specific range of medical aids, the aid which may be claimed under individual equity will also be extended to the lending institution. This is mainly a request for the profession or for patient organisations, as there are health conditions that improve for the God of gratitude, and it is not necessary to buy it at a full price if only for a certain period of time it is necessary to use that medical aid or material. During the last amendment of the law, there have been major changes in the baby care fee and the childcare fee. In the current legislative amendment, we will clarify and amend the rules on the calculation and use of care for certain groups entitled to baby care and childcare fees in a favourable direction for those concerned. I would like to give some examples of this. According to the current rules, a different basis for the same child should be calculated. This is unjustified and puts some of the mothers at a disadvantage because the amount of their care is reduced at the age of six months. This reduction can be explained by the child care fee ceiling in cases of children's allowance exceeding 70 per cent of the minimum wage, but it is not fair in the case of a lower baby care fee, and therefore it is necessary to harmonise the calculation of the basis for children's and children's children's children's children's children's children's pensions. At present, if the mother wants to return to the labour market after the age of one year and the father wants to use the child, she can only do so if she waits 60 days to work. This is an unjustified restriction, as the father's contribution to the benefit is the basis for the benefit, and we want to change that now. The provision introduced before 2010 was that, within two years before the birth or the opening of entitlement to benefits, the period of payment of the child was adjusted to the duration of the insurance relationship. The benefit shall be granted until the child is two years old only if the period of social security rights is up to one and a half years. We believe that the existence of 365 days of social security should establish entitlement to benefits until the child is two years old. The amendment to the Health Insurance Act is also that when an accident occurs in whole or in part due to the influence of alcohol or drugs, the accident should not be recognised as an accident in the workplace. The amendment of the Health Act ensures, inter alia, the rules for the exemption from vaccination and the regulation of the health crisis. The problem with regulating the release of vaccines is that there is a technical question as to the validity of the medical advice attached by the legal representative, which has been seen in recent years as an increasing number of negative examples, which is a very harmful phenomenon, and the application should not be accompanied by any doctor, but by the opinion of the doctor concerned, which, of course, can be verified by the authority. [[9.20]] It is necessary to clarify the medical crisis management system. There may be a health crisis that requires additional tools and organisations, such as disaster relief forces, in addition to those working in the health services of the Hungarian Defence Office, defence agencies and law enforcement agencies. It is necessary to provide for the possibility of using these forces and instruments without declaring an emergency and to determine which body is responsible for obtaining the necessary means for health care but which cannot be found in the public health reserve. We hope that these measures will never take place, but this law must also be clarified. We would also like to see, like representatives of the rights of the child, that patients' rights representatives are subject to increased criminal protection. Therefore, it is proposed that the patient's representative should be considered as a legal person with a public service mission in the course of his duties. It is worth mentioning here that the system for the protection of patients' rights is increasingly well-prepared, and the professionals are doing an increasingly high level of work. This also appears in the fact that more and more people are looking for them and are able to achieve results in more cases without having to go to court, but can resolve this directly or indirectly with the relationship of the doctor-patient or nurse-patient. The European Court of Human Rights had a judgment from which the Hungarian State had a legislative obligation and a review of certain concepts and rules relating to the treatment and care of psychiatric patients became necessary. We define the concept of risky behaviour and the rules of procedure for ordering treatment. It is also, in essence, the fact that independent experts can only be used in the course of the procedure. We also propose to amend the law on the development of health care systems to take another step towards a more flexible and more responsive care system. Therefore, on the basis of practical needs, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of grouping capacity between service providers operating in different reservations. In this case, service providers should only be providers under contract with OEP. I am thinking of the re-allocation options that are currently required between the Honvéd Hospital, Church hospitals, state hospitals, university clinics, which cannot be resolved under this legislation. It is also proposed to amend the Human Genetic Law with regard to the operating conditions of healthcare providers conducting human genetic tests. Now all health care providers carrying out human genetic testing are obliged to maintain biobanks, which is difficult because human genetic tests are also carried out in a molecular genetic laboratory where only short-term storage is carried out, and then the genetic sample is destroyed and it is not sent to a biobank. In view of this, we want to repeal the regulation, thus helping this very forward-looking area of its trend, which is likely to determine the remedy for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said in my introduction, it seems that we are proposing technical amendments, but what is said in the expo can confirm that they are essential and are for the benefit of the care system, the care system and the patients, the recipients of the service. I would like to tell you that we are likely to present to Parliament a bill which I hope will soon be negotiated, which is likely to trigger more interest and serious debate, but which will also have a decisive impact on the state and future of basic supply. Thank you in advance for the comments and for the suggestions made. I ask you to help us create a more efficient and better system for those involved, one of which is T/4646. Health Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-13-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Bene Ildikó. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have discussed several times between the walls of this House that, unfortunately, life expectancy at birth in Hungary is still significantly lower than the EU average, but everything must be done to ensure that our public health indicators move in a better direction. In recent years, and this has also been mentioned in the State Secretary's exposé, we have been able to report on a number of positive public health measures, a very serious and important step in the legislation on the protection of non-smokers, thanks to which smoking is prohibited in public enclosed spaces and in community spaces. With this measure, we can achieve very serious results not in a year or two, but in the long term, in reducing cardiovascular mortality and in reducing lung cancer, unfortunately very high mortality in Hungary. It is also an outstanding step that we were the first in Europe to reduce the consumption of harmful trans fatty acids, and Hungary was the third state in the European Union where this harmful ingredient was minimized in food. It is also certain that this was a very difficult health and public health regulation, since a number of market participants had to be consulted in the establishment of a regulation on the amount of trans fatty acids. In addition to the above, the government will spend HUF 15 billion on health prevention in the context of the operational programme. The aim is to reduce population mortality by 10 percent as a result of preventive programmes with government support. After the start of the operational programme, the amount that can be used in 2015 is HUF 4.6 billion. This is the next step of the health policy that has been launched and a minor element of this bill discussed in this debate. It is a pleasure that, according to the government's decision, HPV vaccination was included in the vaccination programme as of 2014, and for the first time it was given in the context of school campaigns to girls who were 12 years of age and graduate from the 7th grade of primary school in the school year 2014-15. I think it is very important that the call for vaccination is accompanied by an information programme emphasising the importance of screening, both for children and parents and teachers. The amendment of the bill to the health law mainly includes corrections made in the application of the law, but the rules for issuing the certificates necessary to exempt from compulsory age-related vaccination are also clarified. I consider it very important that, in the case of immunity from age-related vaccinations, a physician who knows the case and the technical reasons for the exemption is given a certificate. In addition, additional provisions on vaccination can be found in the bill. The amendment to the Health Data Management Act clarifies the rules on the electronic transmission of the identity data of vaccine recipients, as well as the retention of the health records, and it is regulated here, in this law, that, in the case of foreign prescriptions, if the patient takes the original foreign prescription with him, return it at his request, then the pharmacy will keep it in a copy for five years. In recent years, the government has launched a number of projects that will allow healthcare recipients to receive healthcare as quickly and as modern as possible and to provide safe care for those living in the country. [[9.30]] In order to work effectively and to remedy the difficulties encountered, it is necessary to set out the Annex XI of 1991 on health and administrative activities. to amend and, in particular, clarify the law. Mr. Secretary of State said that in many cases there may be a CT, an X-ray or an endoscope malfunction in practice, or an epidemiological situation that causes temporary difficulties, or think about the construction that is currently taking place, and a lot of hospital renovations are taking place. These are temporary difficulties when the healthcare provider is temporarily unable to care for patients in the same profession, but there is no need to report a interruption, as the recovery of the situation is expected within a closed deadline. This is a very important clarification from an administrative and operational point of view. In these cases, the licensing authorities have already acted and will continue to act to ensure that patient care is continuous and secure, and, of course, the necessary notifications, including maintenance and OMSZ, will be provided. As I mentioned earlier, it is certainly one of the most outstanding public health steps of the Non-Smoker Protection Act. On 3 April 2014, the European Parliament and the Council issued a new Directive on the approximation of the laws and administrative provisions relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products, including amendments to the law on the protection of non-smokers for legal harmonisation purposes. The deadline for harmonisation is 20 May 2016. The Non-Smoker Protection Act contains the framework necessary for the transposition of the directive and, of course, the detailed rules are transposed in the implementing law. In order to transpose the directive, it is necessary to clarify the law on excise duty and the marketing of excise goods. I consider it a further positive provision in the bill that the amendment of the health insurance law allows for electronic administration in the case of the customer's choice, for the price of the medicine or nutritional supplement by the health insurance provider, and for the payment of a reasonable fee for the price or repair of the medical aid. The bill also includes the extension of individual equity grants to the lending institution in respect of a specific range of medical aids. I also think it is very important that this bill includes increased criminal protection for patients' rights representatives, since in the performance of their duties there are many cases of mediation between the parties to the dispute, and they often have to endure very difficult and painful situations in life. In any event, they should be considered as persons performing a public service mission in the performance of their duties. XCV 2005 on medicinal products for human use. This law provides for the possibility of using medicinal products before authorisation, since in medical practice and professionally, we often encounter cases where the patient is likely to be cured or improved by a medicinal product that may still be in the clinical trial phase or in the process of authorisation. I think that this bill gives us the chance and the opportunity, although it is true that it is strictly regulated, because we all agree that this is very important in these cases, but it opens up the possibility of using medicinal products without marketing authorisation, which are experimental, but which are promising, and which are an opportunity for the patient, in cases of special appreciation. Several positive measures and objectives have been formulated and introduced in the health sector over the past period. We know that there is still a lot of work to be done, because health has an impact on the population and on all of us, on the lives of all of us. Thus, the ability to work reliably and well is given special attention. For all of this and as a follow-up to this process, I believe that the bill we are discussing in this debate is decisive and I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-13-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Tukacs. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I played with the idea that in the history of our Parliament, perhaps I should make the shortest speech today, which would be about as if we were okay. After all, Minister of State has said that we are dealing with a technical set of amendments which make Parliament's decision necessary, but do not represent a substantive change in health policy or in fundamental legislation. Along with saying that it's pretty much okay for us, we're not saying that it's okay. There is something absurd about the fact that during the period of health protests, Parliament deals with this sort of thing. Yesterday, health workers made substantial demands, and on the morning of the next day, the parliament deals with how many meters away the pharmacy might be from where I don't know what to put on the cigarette cans. We don't think it's okay. We believe that if the Secretary of State indicates that, for example, in the next period, we will be dealing with a legislative proposal for basic care, then we should discuss these in substance. And not only should such technical details be dealt with, for example, it could be discussed in substance whether smoking has improved, people's health has improved, they smoke less. Of course, I fully understand why the regulation should now be brought in on the issue of cigarette cans, but the substantive debate should be about whether or not we have improved health from having a traffic network, because, for example, we can't see it, unfortunately, from outside tobacco shops, we should be able to bring it up and so on. It is also worth discussing the situation with the chip tax, whose communication from the health government and the government in general is that we have become healthier, plus it provides resources for wage development. But did it really happen? In English, I would like to say that we should talk about matters of substance. It is worth it, because this morning or morning feels like the band playing on the Titanic: the boat is sinking, but the band is still pulling. I think there are some things that are not on the agenda, for example, in the legislative proposals now, but that should be discussed. We should discuss emigration, gratuity money, waiting lists, hospital debt, general government and basic care, and so on. These would indeed be a substantive debate. At the moment, we are condemned to discuss small technical amendments here in this House, while we all know that there is a need for decisive changes in health care. Therefore, and I hope it is not the last time I have to say that healthcare is one of the few national issues that we should agree on. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that health policy and long-term health ideas are worth not having to drag the government to the right or left at least every four years. The real national issues, the few that really need to be agreed on, really deserve to be discussed in substance. We would welcome such an initiative. However, I must also say that, in recent years, there have been a number of wordings on the part of the government that call into question what has happened in recent years; for example, whether there has been any substantial wage development in healthcare in recent years. Because there was. The Medgyessy government has made substantial wage improvements in the general public sector as well as in health care. Therefore, for example, we should take the liberty of bringing this government back together with many, such as us. [[9.40]] We intend to propose this. Let's discuss what would be fair and meaningful, at least 50 percent wage improvement that would be due to health care workers. Let's talk about how to keep doctors and professionals at home outside of government PR operations. Let us discuss how much money these waiting lists, which are currently very long, could actually be reduced. At a time when Minister Lazarus announces that there is about 150 billion in funds to implement various improvements in health care, these waiting list cuts do not seem sufficient for some billions. Let us therefore also discuss what would be the substantial amount from which the waiting lists and the entry lists could be reduced. For if it is a question of money and not of capacity, then this could be discussed. Finally, I think that we should also discuss how long the health government intends to pursue health policy or health policy on the basis of salad laws. My memory may be a little short, but in the last few years, since you've been ruling, we've only encountered salads in the case of health care. We get a bunch of technical amendments in front of us without talking about the core of things, in Hungarian about what should be changed. Therefore, instead of managing salads like this, I think it would be good for the government to take the time to discuss some substantive matters with everyone, with trade and with politics. It's a matter of merit because the situation is catastrophic. It is disastrous not only because the government has raised this wording to the status of official health policy, but also because I think that government policy or government policy is trying to ignore the reality of the situation, in proportion to GDP growth. If we don't talk about it, there's no basis for trying to make a health policy, and some of these, which are coming before us right now, are really a lot of proposals to pretend that he has a health policy. Not at the moment. Therefore, for our part, I would say that we will make substantive proposals. We will make real proposals that fundamentally affect the situation of health workers. We will make proposals for wage development. In this respect, our guiding principle will not be the state of the budget, but the state of health workers, and then we can discuss it. Then they can be decided yes or no. We will all be very curious whether yes or no will be your answer to these initiatives. If so, we can indeed talk about a national issue in the field of health. If not, then we should stop talking about, how should I put it, PR. Therefore, honourable House, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state in this line of proposals that, although it is okay for us, health care is not okay. That is why we look forward to talking about health care, healing, staying healthy, the situation of workers, emigration, doctors and much more that we should really talk about, and not quite absurdly talking about irrelevant matters in relation to health at this early hour of the morning. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish my comment or speech as a lead speaker in the hope that there will indeed be an intention, opportunity and empathy, in any case, to talk about such an important matter in substance. On our part, that's what we're gonna do, we're gonna take the opportunity whenever we can. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor, thank you for the opportunity.
u2015-05-13-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The medical salad law before us seems to contain many small changes, seemingly a technical bill, but it can make a significant contribution to the functioning of public health. The bill contains proposals to amend the law on public health and administrative activities, in particular to improve the effectiveness of the work of health authorities. In the field of health management and coordination tasks of the public health administration, the licensing authority should take immediate action to ensure continuous patient care if a healthcare provider is temporarily unable to provide patients in a given profession due to a sudden obstacle. In practice, these cases are communicated to the medical administration on the basis of information provided by the service provider, epidemiological orders or information received from the OMSZ. By amending the Health Insurance Act, the bill allows for electronic administration in the case of a customer's choice in the process of providing the health insurance company with a reasonable premium for the price of the medicine, a nutritional supplement that satisfies a particular nutritional need, and for the price or repair fee of the medical aid. The bill contains an extension of the aid that may be claimed under individual fairness in respect of a specific range of medical aids to the lending institution. The amendment clarifies the rules on the calculation and use of care for children, baby care and childcare fees, certain groups of children entitled to child care in order to further encourage childbearing. The amendment to the Health Data Management Act clarifies the rules for the electronic transmission of the identity data of those vaccinated and, in the context of the preservation of the health record, requires that, in the case of foreign prescriptions, if the original foreign prescription is returned at the request of the patient, the pharmacy retains the copy for five years. Dear House, The amendment of the bill to the Health Act mainly includes corrections made in the application of the law. The rules for issuing the certificate for the exemption from compulsory age-related vaccinations, rather than any medical certificate so far, will be clarified by the treating physician only in the future, the elements of the authorisation provision for the health insurance of events, and the provisions containing it in order to provide a more effective basis for the health crisis management system. The purpose of the amendment to the psychiatric chapter is to take into account, on the one hand, the legislative obligation arising from a judgment in the context of a previous European Court of Human Rights case in the context of the statutory definition of certain conditions of danger and, on the other hand, to clarify the procedural rules relating to the imposition of treatment in the context of the needs in practice. The amendment to the Act on the Protection of Non-Smokers for legal harmonisation, given that the European Parliament and the Council issued on 3 April 2014 a new Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. This is Directive 2014/40/EU. The deadline for harmonisation is 20 May 2016. The framework for the transposition of the directive is set out in the bill on the protection of non-smokers and the detailed rules are transposed in the implementing regulation of the law. [[9.50]] The bill introduces the institution of pre-marketing drug administration in areas where no effective medicinal product is yet available, investigational medicinal products with promising effectiveness on the basis of information obtained in clinical trials to broaden the possibilities for drug treatment, and the amendment also carries out legal harmonisation tasks. The amendment to the Pharmacy Act clarifies the rules on the obligation to make payments laid down in the volume contract between the marketing authorisation holders of medicinal products receiving social security aid and the National Health Insurance Fund. In the field of pharmacy administration, the bill provides for the possibility of setting up a branch pharmacy in parts of settlements that have a partial government, and because of the population of the settlement and the number of existing pharmacies, a new public pharmacy can no longer be established. The amendment ensures that there is no obstacle to the establishment of a new branch drugstore where, at the request of the authority, the operator of a pharmacy that is primarily entitled to set up a branch drugstore does not make a statement of his intention to set up a pharmacist within the time limit and provides for a minimum period of service for the public pharmacy in order to ensure that pharmacies in the municipality are adequately accessible to patients. I note that such a problem has occurred in my own constituency, and this bill is also a solution to this. The bill also contains clarification corrections in practice in the field of pharmacy administration. Dear House, On the basis of practical needs, it appears necessary in the law on the development of health care systems to create the possibility of clustering capacity between service providers operating in different reservations with a view to creating a more flexible, more responsive supply system for needs. Finally, the amendment of the Human Genetic Law concerns the operating conditions of healthcare providers carrying out humanogenetic tests. According to the current regulation, all healthcare providers carrying out human genetic testing are obliged to maintain biobanks, but this is difficult because human genetic tests are also carried out in molecular genetic laboratories where only short-term storage is carried out and the genetic samples are destroyed after short storage and not taken into biobanks. In view of this, this Regulation should be repealed and practices facilitated. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the package of laws helps citizens, patients and aims to improve the quality of services and to support their effective functioning, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill and we ask the other factions to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-13-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I started my position on the bill with a brief discussion of how the salad laws were, but it is not possible to go without saying that István Tukacs, MSZP representative, suggested. So very briefly, although it is not my place to respond to this, and I do not wish to respond to it in the same way, of course, the government will, if you want or know, defend itself, but I would like to say that on the previous day, there were really substantial demands made against the health government, but this is not still in the health salad law to explain them. We also believe that these substantive demands will have to be dealt with, but we also note that this health salad law has been in social consultation for quite some time, it has been under preparation, so its preparation has almost preceded the demands that have just been made. Of course, it would be very nice to see another medical salad law come in, and however much we do not like health, such colluded legislation, it may still exist if, say, in a month's time or even two weeks' time, we see a bill in which yesterday's claims are granted. You are apt to say otherwise that the Titanic is sinking, but the band is still pulling. If this picture is true, then I'll tell you that you may be a member of the band, and that's why the speech here is a little false, because there are real changes in this salad law. And the other is that your voice is in a hurry and behind, so it's very simple to say that you are now making a demand that you couldn't fulfill during government, so there were eight years. I wouldn't want to point back at it, because it's almost five years away, and you have to point back at what you didn't do for five plus eight years, that's what we said; you're competing with each other on who hasn't done what they've done in the past period, when they had the chance to govern. So in this area, if the Titanic is really sinking, then you're sitting on this Titanic together, and the band seems to be playing for no reason, and if you play with them, then you play falsely and sometimes you miss the beat. But I have to tell you, before Zoltán Gőgös hunts me down with his imaginary rifle, the intro that I wanted to bring here, and that was the salad laws. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I see you've managed to draw your attention to Zoltán Grimlock. He seems to have lost his patience several times recently at such an important and historic moment. [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] The introduction is essentially: several laws have been amended here... [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks:...you stole the country. Interventions in the ranks of the MSZP: Nazis....]]
u2015-05-13-10	Ladies and gentlemen, one moment, please. In part, I would ask my fellow Members not to be personal, and on the other hand, I would ask you not to intervene. Mr László György Lukács has the floor now, so let us assure him that he can say it without delay. Of course, I will report this time in your speaking time.
u2015-05-13-11	Thank you very much, Mr President, for fairness. We are, of course, open to a substantive debate, so that can be discussed after the speech, although I have not heard any serious, substantive rebuttals about the working order of the last eight plus five years. They will, of course, be able to say these after the speech. As far as salad laws are concerned, it is quite obvious - and this is a legitimate point - that it is not right and not too good for an area to always be discussed in a salad law, in several sets, to change such a very important area. However, it must also be accepted that health is a diverse area, which is regulated by several dozen, but can be said calmly, hundreds of laws - and we are talking only about the level of law - and so there is a constant need to make changes to these areas and to make small changes. Of course, in this case, it is acceptable, which happens in health care, that once, but sometimes twice, according to the schedule of meetings, a health salad law works in one session and amends it in a number of areas that respond to the needs which have otherwise been raised. In this connection, Jobbik's position is that it would be worth considering on the part of the State Secretariat for Health, when there is a draft health salad law, so that there is a real five-party agreement before it. Jobbik imagines that the demands to be amended and raised during the process would be collected by the Secretary of State and then, with this draft, would seat the parties, and would say that even if they wanted this salad - and in this we could also respond to the daily news - parties would also have the opportunity to make suggestions and comment, and not only here after the debate on the plenum, they would be open to much more legislative places to which an amendment could be submitted. Because the problem at present is that we can only use an amendment motion to change it, we can only change the area that the State Secretariat has opened as a result of legislation. So, if we opened up the spectrum of these salads and said this uglyly, but we could reach a lot more places with this bill and this type of bill, then perhaps there could be much more substantial changes. Of course, this is a great burden for the State Secretariat in legislation, but in this way, even through political parties, the position of individual advocacy organisations, individual professions, could be transformed much more easily and much faster in legislation. [[10.00]] Let's just say the downside would be that we're facing a much thicker and much more detailed salad law. Of course, I propose that this five-party consultation be considered by the State Secretariat in any case, precisely so that it can be a wider discussion. This would have been a very good example, wouldn't it, we are also talking about psychiatric benefits, psychiatric treatments, voluntary, compulsory treatments, for example, we could have talked about re-regulation of the whole area. After all, there have been numerous cases in the past year when, unfortunately, because of the lack of ordering treatment, but also the lack of institutional structure, there have been such sad and unexpected tragic cases as those on the 4-6 tram line, when a person under psychiatric treatment, presumably thanks to his confusion, pushed an older lady to the tram, which, by the way, highlighted both the institutional system, but also pointed out that this procedure, in which psychiatric treatment can be ordered, is struggling with errors. So we could have incorporated such a discourse in a five-party settlement, and thus in such a salad law, perhaps this block of the entire health law, ranging from 188 to two hundred percent of their proportions, and a well-segmented unit, could have been modified. Turning to the bill itself, in the first part it amends the law on the processing of health and related personal data, in which it creates the transfer of identity data and the possibility of data processing and data transfer for compulsory vaccinations. This is, of course, to the extent that it is supported by Jobbik, in so far as, on the one hand, it will result in an facilitation in both the parent and the institutional context, because often data gaps are the reason why in this system inconvenient cases occur when parents themselves, children themselves, and the institution do not find out how they stand with compulsory vaccinations. This will mean a simplicity, and this data management and data transfer will hopefully mean a more efficient system. The other one, which is to be highlighted - and I have brought here what we highlight because we believe that it has a real social impact and is some level of facilitation in the lives of both doctors and patients - and this is an interesting change, in the case of the detection of harmful working conditions, the restructuring of the medical signalling system, which, if you like, will only appear as a restructuring in so far as it is no longer included in the annex to the law, but a ministerial decree will contain the chemicals and substances to which workers are exposed and which, in the event of exposure, or the detection of a specific level of substance concentration, the signalling system will enter into force. It is proposed that the Regulation, in addition to the list in the Annex, should be extended to include a number of substances which are also reflected in workers' working conditions, but which are detrimental to their health. So there you expect a list to be expanded by Jobbik, at least at the regulation level. Of course, it will be up to us to verify whether this is the subject of the Ministerial Regulation. I would like to make a small criticism of the childcare fee in that, overall, everything that has a positive impact on the beneficiaries of the childcare fee is always a welcome and always to be supported initiative, but in its concept, it would be good to finally establish a system that is transparent and traceable in the long term, because I think that the change in the autumn session is changing again, and these constant and rapid changes are very difficult to follow not only public health and public administration, but they are also very difficult to follow for themselves - we call them customers in this range. So what we need is a much more predictable, much more predictable system. I am confident that the government will also continue to shape the gold middle path that can be followed in the way in which the child care fee and claim is granted, in its assessment and in the administration of the state, and in the long term, it will have a proper and time-resistant body, because the current changes will not help customers to be well informed about this. It is very important that the scope of non-service accidents is now determined a little more precisely by the legislation. Here, it provides a forecast for workers who have suffered an accident in the workplace or who will suffer from a future accident, as it now better describes and better details what condition they do not need to be in or what condition they should avoid if they are in a state affected by alcohol or drugs during their work and are thus affected by an occupational accident. In the case of a factory accident, it is very important to have predictability, so that it is crystal clear and traceable to state what the prohibited behaviour of the worker or the prohibited condition in which, if it appears and is affected by an operational accident, it cannot be expected that it would otherwise be regarded as an operational accident. It was a very important point to use the word, which was certified, so that there should be an objective measure. So not only should it be a condition assumed by an administrative body, or a state supported by experts, but we introduced the word "evidenced" into the law at the very beginning; otherwise a very important facilitation, precisely on the side of knowledgeability, is the legal consequence for everyone, so that if they do work in such a state and have an accident in this context, they are not considered to be an operational accident. Jobbik agrees with the need to strengthen the protection of patients' rights representatives in criminal matters. Of course, it concerns a narrow circle, but seeing that the work of patient rights representatives is increasing in volume, they are meeting more and more clients, they are dealing with more and more cases, it is really necessary to define their criminal protection in this case... - that is to say, as a person with a public service mission, this is also important. The other thing I've already started to talk about is the medical bill on the treatment and care of psychiatric patients. It has been very long waiting for this clarification in practice. I would just say very briefly, and then I may continue to do so in a proper comment, that I, as a practicing lawyer, have been involved in these proceedings for four years, mostly by providing the court with the custody of the court instead of my principal, and then as a lawyer myself. So, unfortunately, from beginning to end, I've always followed the difficult cases that the court couldn't handle. I think that we can see a little bit of progress here in this amendment, but it is very important to say that, although it may be that the courts have been consulted in this, what needs to be changed, perhaps it is necessary to completely redefine this area. And this is not only in the Health Act, but I think it will also have to appear in civil order, because there are a lot of problems that still need to be eliminated. The right thing here is that it is not only possible to provide this psychiatric opinion in writing, which is done by a doctor who is not involved in the treatment, obviously in order to maintain objectivity, but also orally, because it was a very big and serious problem that the courts were not able to prepare these opinions for a period of time, and without these ad hoc opinions, the court cannot decide and can not make a valid decision, and the decision must be followed within a very short period of time, given the very short timeframe in which it is necessary to proceed. It is very good and important that we also define the detailed content of the protocol. In the past, I believe that there was an internal rule based on case law in the courts, which established what the protocols should contain, and now it is rising to a legal level. And it is also very important that the jurisdiction of the district courts is clearly defined by the law here. There was also a serious problem here, and often there was a conflict, the courts pointed to each other to make it a place of residence or, otherwise, the place of business of the institution. It is now possible to pour clear water, and if someone is inside, then, of course, the institution's authority will be bound to do so. I will say the rest of the legislation very briefly. Thank you very much for listening, and of course I will continue from here. Mr President, I didn't live with this extra minute because I couldn't have finished it in that time, and perhaps in the next block I could say my position more clearly and more clearly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-05-13-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go. [[10.10]]
u2015-05-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Changes in childcare care are also supported by the LMP, while we consider these measures to be one-sided. The proposal only supports families with children where parents have jobs, but forgets those who are unemployed. In addition to supporting working families, the government cannot forget them, because they are punishing children, distinguishing between children and children. The increase in family allowance and childcare allowance could help these families, but you have repeatedly said that you do not intend to increase these benefits, even though they have been at the same level since 2008. Turning to the proposal, there are several eligible elements. In the case of lower-income mothers, a positive change will be the alignment between the family and the children, i.e. that they can preserve the higher-value benefits of the former under the law. The current rules provide for a different calculation of the basis for the postpartum baby care fee and the child's children's children's children's children from the age of six months, and because of the different methods of calculation, the amount of the child's child benefit may be lower for the smaller earners than for the baby's care fee. According to the amendment, parents who are entitled to a baby care fee of less than the maximum amount of the child, i.e. less than 70 per cent of the minimum wage, will not be entitled to a reduction in the amount of their care in the future, will receive the same amount of money under the law. And if their children are to be born one after another, they should take into account the better income. This is a corrective step after the introduction of the single-key tax in 2012 and the elimination of the tax credit led to a reduction in the amount of childcare fees for low-income earners under HUF 180 thousand gross, with a net amount of HUF 9500. Meanwhile, the supply of earners increased by several thousand forints due to the increase in the minimum wage, because the upper limit of the lawn is tied to the minimum wage. In other words, the earners benefited, and the low earners were entitled to a significantly smaller number of children. To date, this disadvantage can be expected from low-income earners who are still in need of legal protection for less benefits than they would have been entitled to in 2010. Thus, the single - scale tax also unfairly increased the difference between mothers with children of different incomes. A positive change in the proposal is that if the person concerned had been insured for 365 days before applying for the child, all parents would be entitled to the child until the age of two. At present, the benefit is only due until the child is two years old if the parent has been insured for at least one and a half years before the birth or the claim for the child. If the insurance period was shorter, the benefit will also be paid for a shorter period of time. This measure may be favourable to those who have shorter periods of insurance. The early birth of little siblings and the employment of women can also be facilitated by the amendment that will ensure that mothers returning to work part-time in addition to the child, when a new child is born, the earlier higher income is used as a basis for determining the amount of the family. In fact, if the basis for finding a new supply of a maternity working next to a child is based on part-time income, the amount of care may be less than if she had not gone back to work. However, it is important to add that part-time work is not a real solution for mothers. We have repeatedly proposed to facilitate flexible, full-payment work, but you have all voted against it. In fact, the part of the draft that would make it easier for fathers to use the child is a change of a rule they have made earlier. The pointless rule limiting the use of the child by fathers was introduced in the Gyed Extra Act, which states that if the mother wishes to return to the labour market after the age of one year and the father wishes to use the child, she will not be able to do so without 60 days of waiting for work, during which she will not receive the benefit. Now it is written in their previous rule that this is an unjustified restriction, as the father's contribution was the basis for the benefit, and it can easily be played out if the father asks for the benefit a few days before the child's age. We're glad you're aware that that was an unreasonable rule. We also welcome the amendment that the LMP has long called for to allow individual equity lending for certain medical aids provided for in the Ministerial Regulation. At present, aid can be granted for the price and repair fee of medical aids and their components as a matter of equity. This is unreasonable, as it also means less costs to the State if it supports not only the purchase of the aid but also the rental of the aid. LMP was in favour of breast feeding when it was suggested that while OEP was providing support for the formula, it was not intended to purchase or borrow tools for the extraction of breast milk. At the time, the EMMI replied that since 2007 the subsidised rental would be accepted at the request of the manufacturer of the device, but since such an application had not yet been received by the OEP, the rental of breast vacuum cleaners was not supported at present. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur how this will change in the light of the current amendment. Finally, I would like to briefly mention the amendment to the case of accidents at work. We find this amendment very problematic, according to which it would no longer be considered an operational accident, which occurs only partly because of the worker's alcohol influence. We believe that if only part of the impact is caused by the accident, it must be dealt with not by withdrawing the quality of the accident at work, but, as the right to compensation does at other times, taking account of the victim's reprehensible behaviour when assessing the claim for compensation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-13-14	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches are now over. This would be an opportunity for independent representatives and two-minute speeches. I do not see any volunteers, so we will move on to further speeches by Members. First from the Fidesz Group, Ms Ágnes Molnár asked for the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-13-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it can be said that government policy in recent years has made health more stable and much more stable than in 2010. Among other things, we are faced with the establishment of a more uniform supply system, the strengthening of basic care, and a major public health measure that has marked the last few years, while hospital consolidation based on real extra resources and wage increases for health workers could also take place. Of course, I am aware that there is plenty to do and there are problems, but I am convinced that the direction is right. We must continue to aim at implementing the Semmelweis plan and the sectoral strategy for healthy Hungary. The T/4646 that we have just discussed. With regard to bill No.3 and my fellow Members before me, a number of important details have already been presented. I believe that the new measures taken to protect non-smokers, the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, are equally important, but let me talk a little bit more about an area, pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical policy. A brief overview of past events, of the previous situation, is also essential for the presentation of the current amendments. Unfortunately, it can be said that by 2010 the situation was characterised by both an economic, professional and a moral crisis. One in four pharmacies operated at a loss, and the structure created by patical liberalisation was inadequate to achieve the public health objectives. Between 2002 and 2010, with the reduction of individual drug support rates, the patient burden on the subsidised medicines increased significantly by HUF 60 billion. Compared to this, we managed to reverse this negative process after 2010, in recent years people had to spend a total of HUF 10 billion less on drugs supported in pharmacy. This also meant saving the patients a thousand forints a month. Access to medicines has therefore improved. [[10.20]] From 2010, the government laid the foundations for a new pharmaceutical model. The supply of medicinal products to the general public has finally become a part of health care, the patical liberalisation has been halted, the need principle is restored, and decisions on the majority ownership of pharmacies have been taken, and the primary responsibility for the supply of medicinal products has been the pharmacist. In addition, after 2010, three important new funding elements were built to help pharmacies operate. The budget currently includes the so-called generic incentive of HUF 3.6 billion per year for pharmacists, which can result in the release of preferred generic medicines at more favourable prices. The budget includes the 4.5 billion-dollar item that increases patient safety, which is a pharmacy service fee, which contributes primarily to the role of pharmacies in care and public health mobilisation, and also includes a 700 million-dollar item in the current budget, which can be used to support the operation of small-scale pharmacies supplying one settlement alone. This helps to continuously supply medicinal products to nearly 500 settlements. In the autumn of 2014, the government took further measures to combat counterfeiting of medicinal products by strengthening patient safety. False drug products are often tried to be distributed illegally on the Internet, thus misleading and seriously endangering uninformed consumers in the absence of medical and pharmaceutical checks. Therefore, by law we have created the possibility for websites offering false or illegal medicines to be unavailable. Effective action against designer drugs has been prioritised by the government already in the 2010-14 cycle, as there has been a rapid increase in their spread. Designer drugs are considered as strict as possible due to social risks, with 39 new psychoactive substances being added to the list of psychotropic substances under the pharmaceutical law last year. In order to minimise public health risks, new psychoactive substances are subject to strict control. It is also an important amendment that the list of new substances to be included in the list will be regulated by a ministerial decree instead of a government regulation. I would like to mention here, in any case, that this year the health background institution has been transformed, and as a part of this, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health, which has also become the sectoral depositary of pharmaceutical and food safety, has been established. Overall, the number of loss-making pharmacies decreased to one third by 2013 as a result of the deliberisation and the reported financing changes, and the pre-tax results of the pharmaceutical retail sector increased by more than 30 percent, and the amount of supplier debt decreased by more than 30 percent. The supply of medicines, so we can say that it has started out of an economic, professional and ethical crisis, shows signs of stabilisation, and this new model is economically much more rational, professionally safer and ethically sensitive than the previous one. If you look at T/4646 from a pharmaceutical policy point of view. We can see that, compared to the usual health salad legislative proposals in recent years, the current proposal contains fewer amendments, and these are no longer aimed at a fundamental structural change in the supply of medicinal products. The primary reason for this is that the most important structural transformation of the new pharmaceutical model, as I have already mentioned, has occurred in recent years. The transformation was successful, as confirmed by the fact that the government submitted a detailed information to the National Assembly, which was accepted by the People's Welfare Committee a few weeks ago with the unanimous support of the pro-government and opposition representatives. The current amendments therefore help in particular to facilitate fine-tuning of the system and to further develop the new system that has been developed. First, I would like to draw attention to a very important amendment, and this is the pre-authorisation drug application, which has been mentioned by several people. There are exceptional cases where the medication of a patient with a life-threatening or severe chronic disease cannot be resolved with any of the medicines on the market, and there are developing medicinal products for which clinical trials suggest that the patient is likely to be effectively managed. In these cases, in line with EU legislation, the proposal provides for the possibility of doing so within the framework of a specific procedure. The treatment is initiated by the treating physician in agreement with the patient, issued by the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health, and the marketing provider must accept the free delivery of the medicinal product for treatment. The amendment is clearly in the interest of patients, and it is also hoped that a smaller proportion of those in serious situations will use other so-called miracle drugs with uncertain professional backgrounds. The detailed rules will be governed by a ministerial decree with the entry into force of 1 January 2016. The fact that a branch drugstore can be established in separate settlements is also an important amendment, and more have already said so. It is the right decision, it is necessary that in settlements where part-government operates and the settlement is geographically separated from the rest of the settlement, due to additional rules of establishment no new public transport pharmacy can be established, according to the proposal a new branch drugstore can be created here with the help of the nearest pharmacies, such as Mátrafüred, which belongs to Gyöngyös. The solution in the proposal allows the organisation of the supply of medicinal products in such settlements by taking into account the existential aspects of existing pharmacies, and the definition of the part of the settlement ensures that only geographically separated municipalities can have such a pharmacies. The above mentioned fine-tuning includes clarification of the rules for the establishment of branch drugstores. The current regulation makes it possible, in particular, for the operator of the nearest public pharmacy to set up a new branch drugstore, a basically good rule that takes account of the safety of patient care at the same time. However, there are cases where someone else would like to take advantage of this opportunity with this change. He doesn't want to take advantage of the possibility of opening a branch drug, his right, so we give the license to another pharmacy, that's what this amendment handles. The bill also provides that a minimum weekly period of 30 hours is to be provided for public pharmacies, which may serve as a guarantee element for the supply of medicinal products to small municipalities by setting a minimum availability. The aim of the development of the new pharmaceutical model is to inform the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber of decisions on the establishment and operation of pharmacies. The amendment can be expected that the Chamber will act responsibly in ethical matters in which it is competent under the Healthcare Professional Chambers Act. In order to manage the pharmacy, the legislation now requires qualifications as a specialist pharmacist. This brings us back to the domestic practice that, prior to accession to the EU, required the head of the pharmacy to have appropriate professional experience and specialist medicine qualifications. I think this is also a good step, because pharmacy management requires professional and business management skills that cannot be mastered in the course of gradal training, and vocational training is an opportunity for this. The regulation of specialist medicine training was adapted to current expectations already in 2012 and the current proposal provides a transitional period for obtaining the necessary qualifications. [[10.30]] Therefore, the pharmaceutical aspect of the new bill can be assessed as a continuation of the work of many years ago, as a fine-tuning of the system and as a further development of the pharmaceutical model. I think it is in all our interests to support such changes and, therefore, new legislation on health. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-13-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go.
u2015-05-13-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, First of all, I start by saying that this is a salad law, which we usually don't like because things are so unconventional, but it can't be said now. So we have to say, even if we don't really like salad law, that here we didn't mix health care with taxation and, say, protect the built environment. So we can tell you what we agree with and what we disagree with, what we think is important and what is not. I also think the same as my fellow Member, István Tukacs: this is a proper technocratic proposal that goes through certain EU rules. Sometimes it's a little unusual from the government, but it's time-limits, and it's a way of realizing problems. I would like to start by saying, first, that it requires the licensing authorities to take immediate measures. I think it is right for the government to recognise that when there are changes at lower, middle and upper levels in a system as big as health care, those who work in it find very little support. There are very few points of orientation that allow you to know what you need to do when you are faced with a certain problem. I think we are very lucky if you find yourself in this situation by an infinitely dedicated health worker with great experience and professionalism, because you will know what has changed if you can follow it. I think that if we show only one detail of the red yarn here, it's a correct recognition, and I think that if it helps, then this must be done in any way. As regards the rental of medical aids, several people have expressed their views, which I obviously agree with. I do not always agree with the need to bring everything into the legislative building from these opinions. There is something to be said about this at a conference, but I think that one thing needs to be taken into account here, and that again is public confidence, it can again be among cases of public interest, because there are opinions within the profession, too, there are opinions with experts. These tools need to be acquired. I ask the Secretary of State, and I ask the government not to be true about the rumors that we already have who can get it, and we already have where to get it. I hope these things are just rumors of who can give them, and don't make a deal out of it. The third thing that I would like to highlight in this law - I am talking about the law first - is new restrictions on tobacco products, which are obviously only administrative restrictions, but as MEPs in Pécs, I cannot go aside from the fact that you imposed a health contribution last year, a special tax: HUF 11.5 billion was planned for the budget. By the way, they knew on the day they voted that this would not be the same, because on the basis of their own amendment, this would have meant 2.5-3 billion less revenue. So I'm sure there's no way more than 9 billion of this is going to come out of this. In addition to the fact that, as a representative of Pécs, of course, I am interested in what will happen to this measure, because it concerns jobs in Pécs, but obviously I will not be asking the health government, but I do care about what has happened to the money collected so far. Have they taken you in yet? I suppose so, because we're going to start planning next year's budget, and they're going to start with some kind of fact. I hope it's not the plan number from last year that's going to be included in the budget planning. What did this money go to? What did he go to? We have also said that this is another sectoral special tax; we can call it a health contribution, because the European Union will obviously allow new State restrictions to distort competition, but this is a sectoral special tax - but then it must be spent on health care. When we see that in health care they owe everything they can, 90 days, 180 days, but suppliers have over 400 days, they are losing proportion in very, very many places with regard to finance, it does not matter where a HUF 9 and HUF 11 billion amount goes. But the same can be said about the chips tax, of course, what are the improvements, the debts, wages, wage increases that have been accumulated earlier, which have been created. Because we also need to know that, on the other hand, on the labour market, once again, as MEPs in Pécs, this is very important for us, which poses serious challenges for workers and the sector. With regard to the institution of the pre-marketing authorisation administration, I would like to ask you one question, and the rest has been told by our fellow Members in this case. There are several ways to interpret this rule. Secretary of State, is that what the social security support is for this time of year, or is it not the social security support? Of course, when there are positive clinical feedback and we think it is worth using it without a marketing authorisation, is there a social security grant? That's the question I'd like to ask. And the fact that they create the possibility of setting up branches and branches in sub-government settlements is very welcome. I can relate to my fellow Member in Szászfalvi, and there is one in my constituency where this is a problem, and even in the city where I live. I trust this will be resolved in any way. However, we must respond to some of the speeches that we have heard and, of course, to the whole feeling that surrounds this bill. I do not agree with my fellow Member, László Lukács, that he is personal, that is really not appropriate in this House. It's worth learning, I think. The fact that he has now defended this proposal, defended the author, that is his business, and he will account for it in this matter. The fact that there is a social process, there is one of the most important sectors in the country, the health sector, which provides the basis for the social system, its employees are going out on the street, they draw pretty concrete conclusions, and when we take into account why politics doesn't reflect on this right away, why a technocratic proposal that rearranges lines, in particular, I tell you honestly, I have been able to highlight four of what is worth mentioning, and I think it may be of some level of public interest - all their demands are of public interest. If we expect policy to respond to this in a short time, then I think we do not expect it to be impossible, even because in this house we have experienced several times that there has been a problem, on Tuesday there has been a proposal, and on Wednesday we have already voted on it. So if you want to, you can solve it, especially if the governor wants to, he can solve these problems. For the five plus eight years and everything else, especially when he came to the discussion of the bill in the 8th minute of his comments, I think that this shows at least something from it, he told you the communication panels that are obviously to be told to you because they have been described to you, and everyone is, of course, faulty, especially Fidesz and MSZP. I cannot agree with the momentum of Agnes Molnár. I do not think that health has become more stable than it was in 2010. There's no way to say it, on a more serious economic, moral and professional pedestal, I wrote this down for myself because it was so interesting. [[10.40]] The events of yesterday typically did not show that it was on a much better economic, moral pedestal. I think that professionalism is the only thing that protects us. That you agree with hospital consolidation and wage increases, I'd agree, if only there was already. How many questions, how many interpellations I have addressed to Minister of State, Mr Secretary of State in this matter, where we are, we are still negotiating, coordinating, forming a committee, and nothing in the world has happened. Where's the five-year wage program you promised the nurses, the therapists and the doctors, just vote for you? We don't see these questions yet, but we don't see any of them. I'd like to talk to you about one more thing, and that's a drop in proportion. My fellow Member, István Tukacs, mentioned only briefly, which I believe was a rather serious announcement by János Lázár. János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, had a very serious announcement last week: for 100-150 billion forints - that is what they say in professional berks - private imaging diagnostics, labs and the rest would be purchased by the state and would reduce waiting lists that otherwise, say, apply to diagnostics. But where are the rates, Mr. Secretary? Yesterday or perhaps the day before yesterday, he replied to me in an interpellation that HUF 4 billion was spent on paying overtime. It is now emerging from somewhere, obviously with EU funding or, to a large extent, EU funding, that it will still come up with HUF 100-150 billion to buy assets when they owe overtime. Why do you have to wait six months, even if the code of work you have done, which is more about protecting employers, gives you the opportunity to do so? Why do nurses have to wait six months to get their wages? It costs 4 billion, and we buy for 100-150 billion HUF assets that we know that what we currently have is CTs, those MRIs that we have, we cannot operate at full capacity, because there is no funding. In Western Europe, however, there are wide-open eyes to see how patients stand in line, but the machine is turned off to the dark, and there are no suitable specialists to operate it. This is because of one thing, because there is no funding. Is there going to be more now that we don't have funding for, but we're not paying the workforce? I think that if this kind of loss of proportion will go beyond the health chapter in the next year's budget, then I think it will further deepen the problem in which we are now. I understand your intention to escape in this matter, but I'm afraid that the health government has just started running in the wrong direction. I would like to mention one more thing here: this public procurement is worth 100-150 billion forints. By the time this is transparent, so that no one can find anything wrong with it, it is a huge sum of HUF 100-150 billion, so that the Hungarian higher education works a little less a year; by the time we say this can be done transparently, this cycle will be over by then. I am sure you can make such special rules, and you are always able to do such things when we are surprised that something can be solved with a snap and a stroke of a pen, but the problem is that it will not be transparent then, and I am sure that this is what the European Union will require. In this regard, I think it is worth being more thoughtful, taking smaller steps, making better use of existing capacities, and not least paying those who work in this system, providing them with normal working conditions. Perhaps you could keep your promise that the wage programme will be launched, because then you would not have to do so much work, because then there would be no staff leaving, nurses would not leave the country to earn their earnings or livelihood there. Or I could just say the case of helicopters, the rescue helicopters, which were stopped from being purchased. We'll rent them again, rent their maintenance again. All of these have reasons for structural problems. Obviously, this draft law is not an option, but I believe that during the next period, at least during the budgetary negotiations, I would like to ask for answers and an opportunity to debate them all, so that we can discuss them. I trust you will not plan the non-existent E Fund with a deficit of 40 per cent again, and you will not have to put so much of taxpayers' money into it once you have rationalised so much. I trust that these requests cannot be heard deaf, and we will be able to have a sensible debate over the next period, as Mr Secretary of State has said, whether in the basic provisions or in the law on the budget, to confront each other's positions, not just with personalism. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-13-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Szabó. Here you go.
u2015-05-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Before I go to the draft bill in particular, allow me to say a few things in general, which concerns health care. Indeed, perhaps there is not such an intense issue in Hungary today that both public opinion, the profession and us, as Members of Parliament, are concerned about the health situation. Perhaps during the spring period, I do not believe that there was a parliamentary day when either a written question or an oral question or a speech would not have dealt with the health situation. Of course, it also required a nurse who, perhaps in her final desperation, turned to the public about the fact that the provision of patient care in health institutions was already at risk, and that the financial wages of health care workers leave something to be desired. But what would make the situation better in health care when we keep seeing that there has been a continuous withdrawal of funds in health care since 2010? Hundreds of billions of HUF were withdrawn from health care, which of course concerns the institutional system, infrastructure, the issue of wage planning, the issue of patient care itself. Obviously, you can't expect that subtracting money from something will be better in the coming period. We are, of course, experiencing the same withdrawal in the area of education and in the area of social care. I would like to note, for example, that in the area of social care, the largest withdrawal has been made since 2010, with the reduction from 15.4 per cent of GDP to 13.4 per cent of the support to the social care system provided by the government, and we can certainly see that a number of benefits have ceased in the social care system since 1 March; I do not even want to list it in detail, if I am thinking only of regular social assistance, equity public health care or housing support. Today, Mihály Varga will submit the budget to the Speaker, Mr László Kövér. I only trust and hope that I do not know the figures, Mr Secretary of State is probably already better aware that, whether for health care, education or social services, there will be significantly more resources in the 2016 budget than in previous periods. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that this will now be the sixth budget that you will be preparing, so we should not point back to the past governments now, because in the sixth budget that you are creating, you have taken and have taken the measures that have taken substantially more resources from these sectors and, above all, from health care. I think that you need to resolve this issue, it is your responsibility. Of course, we earlier and now, as my fellow Member, Tukacs said, we will be partners if, in particular, in these three areas, they want to spend significantly more money on issues such as social care, education and health, as we believe that this is in the interests of the Hungarian people as well as in the interests of the Hungarian state. But to get to the bill, indeed, the health salad law before us contains a lot of technical and EU legislative harmonisation clarification, but it does indeed contain regulations that also address content issues. [[10.50]] I would like to address one issue: regulation of lawn and lawn. One provision clarifies how to calculate the baby care fee and the childcare fee. At present, the two benefits must be calculated fundamentally differently. According to the justification, this puts some of the mothers at a disadvantage, and that is true, because the amount of care they receive at the age of six months is reduced. I think the lower baby care fee is unfair, and it greatly undermines the security of those affected. So this is a very right and very forward-looking step, and it is welcome that the government has also found that this needs to be amended. The other provision is to ensure that the amount of benefits cannot be reduced for those who go back to work from ged. Here, there may be fewer benefits than if she hadn't gone back to work, in order to establish a new supply basis for a mother working next to her. Therefore, it is quite right that the legislation should be amended so as to establish a new child benefit taking into account the higher calendar base. However, I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that, according to an impact assessment calculation prepared for a previous presentation, this essentially part-time-related ged extra discount represents HUF 490 million in expenditure per year, which affects all 722 people. However, some interesting and relevant measures are included in the repealing provisions. In the future, the tightening introduced by the Bajnai government, but only entered into force in May 2010, will cease to exist, in fact, only for as long as the parent had insurance periods, but only until the child's age is two years old. Through this amendment, which is now ahead of us, everyone will be entitled in the future, regardless of the time to obtain the right, and will be entitled to two years. Overall, this step is also eligible, but the question arises: if there was a similar salad law before us in the winter, where the government changed the rules on ged and sick money, why didn't it already do so at the time. The 60-day waiting period currently in force for the kid will also disappear. Today, if the mother wants to return to the labour market after the age of one year and the father wants to make use of the childcare fee, she can do so if she waits 60 days in the current legislation. This was a completely unnecessary and unjustified restriction, since the father's contribution had already established the basis for receiving the benefit. Moreover, it was clear that this provision could be played out. If the father asks for care a few days before the age of one year, this 60-day waiting period is not required. So it is to be welcomed that the government has also found out about this and will make this amendment. Of course, that's why we have questions. It is not clear from the proposal whether there is a retroactive correction for those who have previously been worse in relation to one of the provisions concerned as an extra part of the law. After all, these provisions have been alive since last year and are now amending provisions that affect the amount of benefits. We do not understand what I have already indicated in relation to the ged extra as to why these amendments are coming before us now, since last winter there was a similar health salad law and these measures could have been taken earlier. Are the two-year duration of the Gyed for all intended to be applied retroactively? So who has expired under the rules in force, but the child is not yet two years old, for example, will the right to benefit be returned through the amendment? These questions have not yet been answered, and I think the Secretary of State will answer that. Overall, we support any idea, any proposal that results in more money being left in people's pockets. This is especially true when it comes to families with children. At the same time, we do not understand why, in addition to the provisions on the extra correction of the lawn, the government does not deal more effectively with the issue of childcare aid affecting the majority of families, as it has been a very long time unchanged amount of HUF 28 500, equivalent to the amount of the old-age pension minimum. Or why doesn't the government deal with the raising of a single maternity allowance after childbirth, because that would also be an important issue, and it affects a lot of families? Or why hasn't he been considering raising the same family allowance for years, which, we think, also affects substantially more families? We are waiting for answers to these questions, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-13-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács is now next to the repeated speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pick up where I basically left off. It was one of the important topics, and I failed to highlight a very important development and development in this regard regarding psychiatric treatments. It means that the following can be done by court secretaries, and this expressis verbis is included in the law. It is true that, by interpreting the law, judges in the civil procedure had previously reached the view that the court secretary could comply with the hearing itself, the presentation of the opinion and the personal presence. So that's how it's worked. However, the decision, in this case, had to be taken by a judge. By the way, this was a problem insofar as he was not present, but was only able to make his decision on the basis of the data described in the record. Perhaps this will give the courts the opportunity to make it easier and easier for them now. This is also good because the courts do not have such flexibility that the judge assigned to the civil profession, although there was no reason for judges acting in criminal proceedings to act here, was not so flexible that judges would always be able to do so. And many times within 72 hours of delivery, it had to be there and it had to be decided. So it's another good line. And I'm sorry, I'm saying this to the MSZPs, if you're gonna highlight a good line, because you're actually gonna have to be happy about anything that helps health care workers, health workers, patients. So here we must not be accused of bias towards the ruling party, but of bias towards helping people. I think it is safe to say that Jobbik is frivolous in this, because what is better for people and really more forward-looking, as we have put it, which helps Hungary's interests, everything that helps the interests of Hungarian citizens supports it. This has been said several times, for example, in foreign exchange loans, to come from anywhere, to come from MSZP or Fidesz, if it is an issue that provides help, Jobbik will accept whoever it is from. If the MSZP came up with a proposal that amends this in the right direction, we would, of course, say yes to the MSZP proposal without saying a word, and we would even appreciate what you are saying in this. I think it is a pity to point out this political point of view, which is essentially a professional issue, a professional debate. It is part of the professional debate, and I am sorry that we are also colliding with the LMP here, and it was very good what my fellow Member from LMP said. After all, in the case of fairness, we ourselves wanted to say that the circle which is laid down in a ministerial decree is very important for the Ministry to determine whether to include medical aids such as the fee support for aids needed to feed the otherwise important breast milk. We strongly recommend that you do so. Allow me to be so personally involved that at the end of the last week, I was in the frame of the year of volunteering proudly by Jobbik's representatives to help a home-care service, of course, with limited limits, since I have no license to do so, but you can help me where you can. We were out there with a patient who had a serious problem that the family had to finance the sickbed from their own pocket, which belongs to the patient's home, but provides modern health care, obviously improves its circumstances. So this family had to finance it out of their own pocket, because they couldn't use any support, and it had a very serious cost, because it had a monthly rental fee of HUF 18,000, and it was just the bed itself and the frame structure. The use of any other means, which means a supplemental service, when we talk about a patient who is in bed, can be used for a serious amount of money. It would be very helpful to have the possibility, from a fair framework, to at least be able to finance these rents by the State. [[11.00]] By the way, this family managed to buy a bed from Germany worth 150 thousand forints from the remaining savings, which was still suitable for use. So it was also shocking to see what this framework could not support. It is very important that the list of support instruments and aids is in any case adapted to the level required by the practice and practice. In this we agree with the LMP initiative, we say the same thing, and that is what we consider important. We therefore strongly recommend that the Ministry review the list of aids so as to pursue the most important goals, so to speak, in national policy. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other thing that has been raised in this regard, although this is no longer included in the bill, points out here that such support for medical aids, such as in this case the support of a sickbed, also raises the possibility that home care needs very serious support and development. I have experienced it there myself, because under much better conditions, these medical aids can be made more modern, efficient and cheaper for the state to cure patients in their own homes. So if we took a step in this and said A, then the B-version, if you want to say the consequences and the conclusion, then it will be that if, in addition to all of this, if we create the opportunity and support for equity lending, then let us consider how we can move towards home care, since these medical aids are typically installed and used in the patient's home, because they are not always used in hospital care, but are a condition for their dismissal. So if we're here, I'd like to point out to the government's State Secretary for Health that it's time to fully re-regulate home care, completely re-regulate, and raise the visit fee, so we should definitely move forward with a development in this area. Overall, this is what I wanted to highlight in this regard. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement, of course, where you see it, will submit an amendment to the law, where we will meet with an open legal place. But, overall, the terms are eligible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-13-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Luke. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor in a 15-minute frame to MEP László Teleki, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-05-13-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to highlight this draft law from a slightly different aspect, because I see that we see important things in the proposal, because it breaks down barriers that we have seen so far. For example, it breaks down the part of the insurance that I consider to be very important, because it will reach a large number of people by not imposing an obligation to insurance for a year and a half. On the other hand, I can see that in many cases the underprivileged layer does not get the help that should be given - I say again, despite the fact that I see improvements in this bill - because the nearly 500 thousand children who are starving, and the nearly 4 to 4.5 million people who are below the minimum living, are, I see, still at the mercy of health care, and are fully exposed, and this law does not handle and settle the question of how this nearly 4 million 500 000 people can be achieved by constantly receiving the full spectrum of health care from childhood to adulthood. The reason I don't see this is because let's think about the practice and imagine ourselves in the field of practice, then we can see that the amounts that appear either in the case of children's benefits or in the case of childcare are indeed quite large in terms of being more than zero. However, when the disease hits its head in a family where neither party works, but there are two or three children, I think it is very difficult to imagine that there will be progress in either the supply of medicines or other care - not to mention prevention and prevention - on that issue. I would therefore consider it important, for my part, when we talk about health care, to mention the things that we heard at the protest yesterday, and there were legitimate demands, which are not the subject of this law, I know very well, but it definitely affects: how do you deal with the situation of doctors, medical care providers and nurses, so that they can do even more to ensure that the disadvantaged I am talking about are given care that is very human. I think this part is important because think about it, if you get into a supply system, then care must be provided in the same way, and people who are not feeling well at work today because they can also put their own families in danger because they cannot provide life support so that they can do their job. Therefore, I think it is the government's responsibility to address this issue and to try to provide health care workers, from nurse to specialist, to finance them so that they can really pay attention to their work. Because then I say that the disadvantage that I was talking about is that nearly four and a half million people can really be calmer, because not always will they dominate the amount of aid or just what amount of weed they have, but they can get sure care. Therefore, for my part, I can say, and I see that these issues need to be synchronized and brought together with the other supply systems. My fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, said how important education is and how important it is to link the social sector. I'd like to draw attention to one thing myself. If it is a government programme, we should see coordinated government programmes, ones that fit together. In this case, we do not really see that one fits with the other, because if we consider today that the countries that spend very much on health care, which spend little on prevention and prevention, this is also true for Hungary. The question is how the state of health, the government of a country, can synchronize the situation with the area of employment. Because if more people work in a society, the fewer people go to health institutions for different benefits because they are not so needed. However, in this situation, I see that employment must also be mentioned in addition to social care and education, because these two areas are still narrow and closely associated with a completely different attitude for people in society than they are now living because I think they see and feel. When I have said that we should think about the lives of many families and draw on practical experience, I will say another number that I have said many times in this House, but I will say it again: let us not forget the group within poverty that we call Roma and Gypsies in this country. There are nearly 500 thousand of them, some 100 to 120 thousand of whom live in Gypsy farms, where no toilet can be found, so there is not even a latrine in the settlement. What's gonna happen to those, what kind of health prevention are they gonna get, and how are they gonna get a treatment that they can get along with? I think that the government has actually given up on these 120,000 people, because I do not see a preventive programme package that would address this issue, or the issue of poverty, which would increase this issue with a new number of people, because not only the Roma can now see the unblessed conditions, but also a lot of countries in Eastern Hungary, but perhaps even in Western Hungary. Therefore, I would consider it very important if we were to talk about giddy and weakly so that prevention could come here in any case and we could talk about it. I think it is a very big problem that we have not received these, and we cannot negotiate them in this package, nor can we see them in the programmes of the various relevant fields of expertise in recent years. For my part, as the final sentence, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, the government's policy-makers, to consider how interconnections can take place through different fields of expertise, so that healthcare can expand in health care, how the government can handle the various social and social issues, because it would free health. [[11.10]] Today we see that the discharge of health has not happened, because there is a lot more patients and a lot more people, but there is less and less resources; even if we say and see, perhaps sometimes in the queues, that there has been an increase in resources for the hospital, for health institutions, but the number of patients is increasing in absolute terms. Therefore, I think that there is a need to consider the situation in hospitals, and the supply system that has been developed - I know that it is fresh and new - perhaps we should consider it. I'll give you one more example, in conclusion, that the supply zones will also change as far as I know, which may not be good in the counties where the county boundaries are very close, because that means that there will be no way to go from one county to another to cure patients to receive care. As a result, there will be a lot of conflicts that can be measured now and that will bring the situation of hospitals back to ruin. Therefore, it is necessary to consider how these issues are intended to be dealt with in the near future, as otherwise - and I would like to mention it once again - one or two things appear to be good in this law. That is why we expect that perhaps the health wallet or the health part of it can do something for the government to make the whole society feel better. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-13-24	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. In the next 15 minutes, Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2015-05-13-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There are, indeed, partial progress in the presentation, which has already been spoken about by the speakers before me from my group, but it is very difficult to distance myself from the environment surrounding this proposal: the general state of health in Hungary and the demonstration of health workers yesterday. It is very difficult to avoid the daily situation of nurses, doctors, paramedics, living conditions, emigration, the fact that in such an environment the patients themselves are in a more difficult situation. It is difficult to distance it from the general problems of Hungarian health care. In some respects, as I have already said, the proposal is moving forward in technical matters. István Tukacs told me before me that, by the way, only this type of salad law has been discussed in the Parliament in recent years, overall, but the state of the Hungarian health system could not have been discussed in a complex manner by the Parliament. Therefore, I say to our own faction and to all Members here at all that it might be worth discussing a comprehensive presentation, or, by the way, if there were so many local issues in society and there were so many local problems in the health sector - which we are all rightly taking on here - then there would not be a single debate day to start from the devil, I think. It is clear that the solution to the Hungarian health care situation cannot keep us waiting, the situation is tense to the end. As a member of the Parliament of Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county man, I can't really talk about anything else here in Parliament. Obviously, there was a question of hospitals, of active beds. Months ago, a map of Hungary was circulating on the Internet, and the restructuring of the hospital structure was actually to be presented on this map; there has been a lot of silence on this issue ever since. We have asked a number of questions in writing to the Secretary of State, the Ministry, but both those involved, i.e. those working in health care and those living in that region, can see vaguely on these issues today. It was generally typical of this map that half of Eastern Hungary was red in general and even in South Transdanubia, so in areas with a heavier fate, and in fact - because this meant that serious bed count cuts would be expected here - even though the areas with better care were designed exclusively for improvements. This is not acceptable. In particular, uncertainty is not acceptable. So my first suggestion would be that about Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and Miskolc, what about active beds, when those involved can find out what restructurings are planned for Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. I have seen that the debt has been declared by the Secretary of State in the last few days, and there is a more serious amount that the government is now planning to pay for debt settlement, and that is what we can see. The question, however, is what will happen if these debts regenerate, what about the structure, how to make this more sustainable, how to prevent it from involving additional resources, not individually, but systematically to make the institutions in debt, because in many places they are forced to farm overnight, and this obviously has an impact on everyday work. And how the supply zones have evolved, how they are transformed, and how unviable this is, for example, in the case of an institution on the county border, László Teleki has already made comments before me, which is obviously also in Eastern Hungary. The issue of catering wasn't really mentioned here before me. There is a very low standard in the health field, obviously in connection with catering, and in addition to the victim-made work of dietetic professionals, it can be seen that more professionals are needed to provide adequate care for patients with different problems and to receive adequate quality care and catering. Obviously, this also requires additional resources. With regard to waiting lists, I bring this up because I have experienced quite amazing situations, especially in Eastern Hungary: patients with almost life-threatening or type of cancers or cancers are facing serious expectations in some studies, which drastically undermines their outlook on life. I think that in 2015 it can be said in the Hungarian Parliament that it is intolerable for this to remain so. If this is essential for saving his life or for life prospects, these tests must be carried out immediately. This cannot be prevented or made difficult in all material respects and must be financed. Obviously, health care costs money, costs serious resources, and withdrawal of funds leads to a delay in carrying out basic tests in several places. This is not acceptable, it needs to be changed, waiting lists must be reduced. With regard to health workers: that was what the media was talking about yesterday, and the comments made by health workers were justified, by the way, Secretary of State, that is what you told them. I think that you can't keep me waiting, especially because, because of the emigration, I am already experiencing this in the GP areas, but also in some areas, patients and politicians are complaining about this, too, that there are not enough professionals, doctors, because of the great emigration, there are serious problems in this regard because of the great fluctuations, so the health career model cannot keep you waiting. These are obviously comments in which we can even agree, and a lot of people have said this in front of me. Understand, all these types of social problems in Eastern Hungary are even more common. There are many reasons for this: the state of health of the population, the social situation. The reason I keep suggesting this as an individual congressman and a Borsod county man is that there is no more in this story. It has been said that their sixth budget will be put together, including internal rates and the issue of value choice. I propose to you - and I offer you our partnership in this - that we increase the support for health in the next year's budget. Some local cases, which I would like to hear from you on behalf of the region, are obviously affected by the state of the medical clinics. In my constituency, Parasnya, the renovation of the medical office serving the inhabitants of the six settlements and the building which is also part of the protective service will no longer be delayed. If we are here on this agenda, let me say that I ask the Secretary of State to intervene so that this building can be renovated as soon as possible for the health of the locals. [[11.20]] It is true that I have raised the name of Viktória Wagner, perhaps the largest or one of the largest Hungarian defenders who has ever lived, who was born in Parasnya, in connection with the declaration adopted on the patrons, and with their proper moral recognition. The municipality cannot put this building in a proper state on its own, although a significant part of its legacy is there. Once again, I ask the Secretary of State that if we have remembered the profession of patroness, if we have a great deal of respect for the women in charge and the willing work they do in Hungary for all of us, it is possible for those who visit here to be properly remembered year after year. This is an important question; it may be symbolic, but I think it doesn't matter to the people who live there. A specific issue is the issue of blood tests on the spot; it must be handled in specialist clinics. In areas where there is a specialized clinic or, let's just say, more crowded in one of these clinics, it would be desirable to have treatment in the general medical clinics as well. There is a difference between what GPs do in this regard or, where appropriate, whether it costs money to a resident. I would like to set a good example of Miskolc. One socialist municipal representative, György Bartha, from the electoral district fund, is trying to support the fact that otherwise those who find it difficult to get to a remote clinic or have to wait a long time because of the crowdedness can do so in their general medical practice. There must be some cost to this. In line with today's Hungarian health conditions, I think that a serious improvement would be possible if we brought these studies closer to the people. And finally, I would like to mention to you a case that stems from the particular geographical situation of my home town, Miskolc. Obviously, it is also because of funding, and perhaps partial or inadequate knowledge of the situation by decision-makers who have decided - partly speaking of local decision-makers, of course - that it is sufficient to carry out adult GP duty on a single site in Miskolc. They used to say that on the spot, let me quote a local saying here that if, due to the eastern and western location of Miskolc, we looked at the map from Sajó shore to Omassa and put it on the map of Budapest, it might even hang on both sides. So obviously the north-south dimension of the city is not very long, but it covers a very long distance in the east-west direction. In addition, in terms of general medical care, it provides even part of the surrounding settlements with regard to on-call services. That's why it's not enough to have an emergency room downtown. A few years ago, the adult GP in Diósgyőr stopped working. There are a lot of complaints from the public that it is more difficult to reach if they have a problem, have to travel more far away, either by using more tickets in public transport or by taking a taxi, as the case may be. This is a cost that some no longer accept and rather fail to obtain adequate medical care when they need it. With regard to the particular situation in Miskolc, I would ask you to try to find additional funding for settlements with such abilities. Many individual solutions are also needed to provide adequate health care for all regardless of their situation. This can be achieved by re-opening the adult GP in Nutmeg. Thank you, Mr. President, for listening.
u2015-05-13-26	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I will ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I see that Mr Gábor Zombor is preparing to respond to what has been said in the debate. Pinch in place, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-13-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments. I think we've heard a lot of useful information. I'd like to talk a little bit about the salad law, because there's less talk about it, but it's my official duty now to answer a few words, and then I'll give you a few thoughts on the other comments. The submission of a salad law is, in my opinion, better for Members, because if 12-13 laws had to be discussed separately and those ideas or some paragraphs had to be changed, I think that would not be particularly welcome. Let this be said that, in addition to the major health problems, there are also health management issues and there are some issues of harmonisation, and we are always trying, as I said, to review them. Congressman Szabo said why not. Because the experience, when they get there and in this agreement, is that it is an improved provision, then it comes in. About this pace can be kept, that there is one at the end of the spring session and at the end of the winter session, so that we can do this either on the issue of psychiatric patients, where we must take action on the basis of a European court decision. I would like to say, on the specific points, that I have questions about lending, so as regards breast-feeding, I do not know, the Member is no longer here, but this is, by the way, one of the instruments that can be borrowed. There is currently a professional debate on a new, or not new, concept for the supply of medical aid, in which the loan would have a much greater role, and this could extend the circle, who could participate. In the budget I know of, there will be 4 billion forints more on medical aid next year, which will be a great help to us, and this will strengthen our ability to manage this new system. As I have said, on issues related to the lawn, the portfolio always tries to move forward and take positive steps in this regard, based on the experience so far. In the case of the assessment of an operational accident: there is quite a consensus in this, and I think that this will pass the test, so if someone is in a drunken or otherwise influenced state of operating accident, it is worth regulating in this way because of social justice. The list of harmful substances, the Ministerial Regulation; if there is a proposal, we will be happy to see it in the coming period. Congressman Cook had some comments or suggestions that were specific questions. One is whether the medicines that are not yet in circulation in connection with the amendment of the law, but which appear to be effective, have social security support. They are always handled by the OEP in a unique fairness system. There are still these types of drug subsidies that will also be used for these new inclusions. [[11.30]] I heard the 100-150-billion-dollar instrument purchase, too. I am very pleased that this will be included in the system from European Union funds, as it can be a serious help. I, too, would very much support a five-party consensus on this in the area of health. Health care is very difficult to particulate from a political point of view. If the participants agree on the whole, and it is perhaps also an answer to Congressman Teleki, what causes many, many problems in health care. It is due to the fact that the country maintains a system that, in addition to a lot of tension and problems, wishes to guarantee and provide care for those who, by the way, in a different system in which we would have a much easier job, say, in a business insurance system or in a cash payment system, there would not be such problems, which were said yesterday, or which we struggled with every day, and you also struggled; we will struggle, I hope, there will be a lot more people in this country to improve - and I am not thinking of the Jobbiks, so do not misunderstand. So these are the limitations of this system, a system based on solidarity and based on contributions based on E-funds. If there is agreement on this and how to structure it, which is what you asked, or what is often said, the supply system, where the emphasis should be placed, these are already professional issues. Professional issues cannot be discussed in such a way as to become a political issue. Because from then on, the profession will be pushed into the background, and then it will remain that a system is maintained mainly on the basis of political considerations. So if I can take any initiative in this, and if Members are willing to talk about it, I would be happy to do so, especially in matters that are also discussed here, which may not be legislative issues, but I may be able to give you information that will prevent misunderstandings. For example, in the county of Borsod, the figures relating to these structural changes or the planning of them were just as positive for Borsod County, because we have calculated that, and this may also be information to Congressman Teleki, even if it is not an answer, that we see that the amounts spent on health care as if they were inverse to the disadvantage. So where there are more disadvantaged people, such as North Hungary, there is less per capita, and we are trying to do this or trying to do it, and we are trying to make suggestions on how this could be proportionate. And it is very interesting that, for example, what they say is that there are better conditions in Western Hungary, for example, there is a lower per capita health resource. Congressman Cook, you always say that if we can't figure something out, we will set up a committee. But that is precisely the point of finding solutions together in hospitals and in the health care sector, both in relation to the supply area - there is no decision regarding the modification of the supply area, as you have perceived, as Congressman, we are very careful in our efforts to take all opinions into account, and only after that can we make a decision - both in relation to hospital capacity. This has to be done by 30 June by these bodies. Of course, without tensions, there is no change to be expected, nor is it expected that, let us say, North Hungary has better funding, it causes tensions elsewhere, but once again, I would very much welcome the possibility of speaking informally to Members on some basic health issues. In connection with the general issues, where the tobacco excise tax goes is included in the E Fund. This was included in last year's budget in the E Fund, so that is where my fellow Members will find it. With regard to the procurements, I mentioned that it is likely that the use of unused or unused amounts in the European Union cycle may be possible, but a proposal has just been published, for example, that will allow the replacement of all CT and MRs in Hungary and over the age of 10 years, so that the asset park will be completely renewed. And to that I would add that there was a great deal of resources in the 2007-13 period in the health care sector, and if that were the case, I think we'd be doing just fine there. Regarding general questions as to why there are no major health issues in the salad law. The big cases will be decided in the budget, so it will come from what and how it can be done and what social security is like for a country. So these two things define it. On the details of today's requests and demands related to yesterday's events, there is a broad consultation of interest representatives, which is, by the way, an open body or open consultation. It's not always the people who belong to a particular organization, so there's no way anyone's going to be involved, by the way, and listen to what's going on. I believe that we will be able to move forward in many cases in the coming period, and that is what resources are shown in the budget. Of course, for a health secretary, no resources are ever enough or not satisfied, so don't expect me to do that. Very important issues will not be defined by law, but by government decree. For example, today the government is discussing a regulation that contains very important provisions on a financing regulation, such as the reduction of waiting lists, which we really expect to get started and how we can encourage it. For example, the elimination of the waiting list for barren couples is included. Here, too, the government is trying to provide a positive incentive, either to exempt overnight surgical benefits, or to do what Congressman Varga mentioned, and it is indeed unsustainable if a cancer patient cannot obtain a diagnostic option in time. This is also provided for in this Regulation, in which it is determined for 14 days that the state provides a diagnostic time for the cancer patient. And, of course, there are various ministerial regulations. [[11.40]] It is very important to keep young doctors at home, the residency program, which is also being prepared by a government decree, which we are about to discuss, and as a separate law, the Basic Supply Act, in which I will also ask for their cooperation and helpful attitude. A lot of things have been said. I thank you very much for your comments on the salad law itself, and if there are any amendments, I will, of course, try to take it in supportively. And in matters that may not belong to the law, but which are important to Members, I also offer you a personal consultation. I don't think we need to discuss everything here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-13-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on the Visegrad Patent Institute until its closure. The submission was made by T/4647. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Berke Barna, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-13-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill submitted to Parliament aims to announce the agreement on the Visegrád Patent Institute and gives it the necessary authority to recognise the binding scope of the agreement. Allow me to briefly present the purpose and substance of this proposal at the beginning of the general debate. The agreement on the Visegrad Patent Institute was signed on 26 February this year by representatives of the countries concerned in Bratislava after intensive international negotiations. On the basis of the positive experience of a number of similar regional cooperation cooperation organisations, negotiations have been launched and, ultimately, this agreement has been signed with the support of all the Visegrad countries. Let me point out that after the establishment of the so-called Scandinavian patent cooperation institute in 2008, several useful examples of this kind of regional cooperation developed both in Europe and outside Europe. This experience, this model, is also being used by this new institute. The main objective of the establishment of the Visegrád Patent Institute is therefore to enable the inventors and businesses of participating countries and, where appropriate, of certain neighbouring states to use the system of patent cooperation which is administered by the World Intellectual Property Organisation and currently covers 148 countries of the world, and to join the global patent system as such. The Visegrád Patent Institute is proposed to be an intergovernmental organisation. The goal of the Hungarian professional diplomacy, which has been a priority for many years, is to establish a patent authority in the Central European region, the establishment of this kind of cooperation, which is also highlighted in the Jedlik Plan, a national strategy for the protection of intellectual property, adopted by the government. Another example of the regional involvement of the Hungarian diplomatic and professional community in this intellectual property rights and patent law area is that thanks to the work of the Ministry of Justice, Budapest was established in connection with the so-called unitary patent litigation, which started its operation in February this year. Another international and regional result in this field is that, according to an intergovernmental declaration of intent regarding the introduction of this unitary patent court, Budapest will also be the seat of one of the regional judicial centres, which will bring significant benefits to companies involved in patent law disputes in Hungary. Returning from the operation of the Visegrád Patent Institute, we expect that, as an international research and pre-examination body in the Central European region, this new institute will promote and stimulate innovation, creativity, indirectly promote economic growth and improve competitiveness in the region at regional level and in individual countries, in Hungary. In the operation of the new institute, a more favourable language regime will be introduced, which means that international patent research and pre-screening may be carried out in addition to traditional English used in the multilateral system in the official language of each country participating in the V4 Institute. Among the possible national languages, the applicant initiating the patent procedure may choose the one most suitable for him. It is also possible for the Visegrád Patent Institute to carry out international research in Hungarian in connection with domestic applications, the international pre-screening and the questions and consultations arising from patent applicants in the course of the procedure can also naturally take place in their own language. This is also an advantage for costs. For patent applicants, the new institutional cooperation and operational order will accordingly be more cost-effective as expected. Geographical proximity is an advantage for whistleblowers requiring consultation, especially individual inventors, small and medium-sized companies, since the central administration of the Visegrad Patent Institute will be based in Budapest and will operate with offices in other V4 Contracting States. Cooperation within the new institute will also provide opportunities for industrial property protection authorities in the Visegrád countries to preserve and develop local industry, their patent, research and investigation expertise and practices for the high service of enterprises with a regional or regional dimension. The National Intellectual Property Office shall ensure the implementation of the Agreement in Hungary. We believe that the necessary personal, expertise, documentation and other material conditions are available there. Dear Parliament, We believe that it is essential for the national economy and competitiveness to promote patent protection for domestic businesses through the means of international industrial property protection cooperation, including by joining this system, and to this end we will implement the most advantageous regime in terms of procedures and costs. [[11.50]] This is what the proposal presented serves, and beyond that - which is already a professional addition and an additional element of the Visegrád Patent Institute - regional industrial property protection cooperation and division of labour can become intensive with the establishment and operation of the Visegrád Patent Institute. We therefore respectfully ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-13-30	Thank you, Secretary of State, Berke Brown. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2015-05-13-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It is also clear in the Jedlik Plan, the national strategy for the protection of intellectual property adopted in 2013: it is in the interest of the national economy and a requirement for competitiveness to promote the patent protection and protection of domestic businesses by means of international industrial property protection cooperation. With the establishment of the Visegrad Patent Institute as an intergovernmental organisation, the inventors and businesses of the participating countries will be able to use the World Intellectual Property Organisation's 148-country patent cooperation treaty, PCT's system, such as access to the global patent system. The bill before us is aimed at publishing the agreement on the Visegrád Patent Institute and giving it the necessary authority to recognise the binding scope of the agreement. With the establishment of the Visegrád Patent Institute, a number of positive developments are expected. As an international research and pre-test body in the Central and Eastern European region, it promotes and stimulates innovation and creativity through cost-effective solutions, and promotes economic growth and improves competitiveness in the region. The language and language options are more favourable than currently available. International patent research and pre-examination may be carried out in addition to English in the official language of each participating country. This also means, my fellow Members, that, for example, in Slovakia, a Hungarian inventor from Slovakia can initiate this procedure in Hungarian at the branch in Slovakia. The Visegrád Patent Institute will therefore have the opportunity to conduct international research and pre-examination in Hungarian. In addition, Hungarian patent applicants can start an international patent application in their mother tongue and answer their questions in the course of the procedure in their mother tongue. It also provides opportunities for industrial property protection authorities in the Visegrád countries to preserve and even further develop their patent, research and investigation expertise, technical, innovation and patent knowledge base for the high quality service of local industry, businesses in the region. The Visegrád Patent Institute will be based in Budapest and will have offices in other Contracting States, so geographical proximity will be an advantage for whistleblowers requiring personal contact and consultation, especially individual inventors and small and medium-sized enterprises. To conclude, I would like to thank you for your persistent, multi-annual work on professional diplomacy, the result of which is the agreement before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-13-32	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-05-13-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The governments of the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Republic of Poland and the Slovak Republic have agreed to establish an intergovernmental organisation on the basis of the patent cooperation agreement, i.e. PCT, which, after obtaining authorisation from the General Assembly of the International Patent Cooperation Union and following the approval by the General Assembly of the Agreement between the Intergovernmental Organisation and the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, acts as an international research body or an international pre-test body, as a PCT authority, which is responsible for conducting international research and international pre-examination of the applications submitted for international patent applications. The agreement does not restrict the scope of the Contracting Parties to the Visegrád cooperation countries alone, and the possibility of accession is open to other countries in the region. The Visegrád Patent Institute has legal personality and is based in Budapest, as the State Secretary mentioned. In its official activities, the institution's assets and revenues are exempt from any direct tax. The Institute shall be represented by its Director, appointed by the Management Board, composed of representatives of the Contracting States and their alternates, for a fixed period not exceeding four years. The Institute may charge a fee for the tasks carried out and the procedures carried out. The amount of the fees shall be fixed in such a way as to ensure the balance of the Institute's budget. However, if this is not possible, the Contracting States shall pay an extraordinary financial contribution to the Institute. Any Contracting State may terminate the Agreement at any time. Such termination shall be notified to the depositary, which in the present case shall be the Government of Hungary. The termination shall take effect six months after the date of receipt of the notification. The aim of the Hungarian IPR degree has been a priority for many years to establish the PCT authority of the Central and Eastern European region. In order to establish the regional authority as an international organisation, preliminary expert-level consultations between the National Intellectual Property Office and the Austrian Patent Office began in the summer of 2009. Recognizing the benefits of regional international cooperation in autumn 2011, the Romanian State Office of Inventions and Trade Marks also indicated its intention to participate. The Hungarian party was the engine of the negotiations all along, but it became clear by the first half of 2013 that the efforts did not result. However, in the early autumn of 2013, bilateral meetings with the heads of the offices of the Visegrád countries concluded that the industrial property offices of the Visegrád cooperation expressed their interest in the establishment of a regional PCT authority. The main objective of the establishment of the Visegrád Patent Institute is to allow the inventors and entrepreneurs of participating countries and certain neighbouring states to use PCT's system and to join the global patent system on more favourable terms than ever. The languages in which the Institute carries out international research and pre-examination shall be defined in an agreement to be concluded with the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organisation on the establishment and operation of the Institute. It is certain that these languages will include the official language of each participating country, i.e. Czech, Polish, Hungarian and Slovak. The Institute can therefore carry out international research and preliminary examination in Hungarian. In addition, the notifiers would be able to communicate with the Institute as an international research and pre-examination body, both orally and in writing, in the language of the international application, including, where appropriate, in Hungarian, and to make all submissions and other documents available to the Institute in that language. [[12.00]] The Institute would provide an opportunity for Hungarian-speaking notifiers living in the region to obtain patent protection in their mother tongue at more than one year's international stage of the protection procedure in nearly one and a half hundred Member States or parts thereof of PCT. The operation of the Visegrád Patent Institute is expected to promote and stimulate innovation and creativity and promote economic growth and improve competitiveness in the Central and Eastern European region. So it is natural that the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the adoption of this bill. The creation of such an intergovernmental organisation is a very positive and welcome fact, but we believe that further progress is needed, because it is extremely important; this is what the government is saying, and we hope that actions will provide similar evidence as this proposal that lies before us. So we all know how important Visegrád cooperation is, how important regional cooperation is, and how important it is that Hungary can achieve results and results for the country in cooperation with neighbouring countries and in cooperation with Visegrád. It is therefore important to pay attention to the fact that international relations - and unfortunately this also applies to cooperation in Visegrád - which have been in a negative direction over the past years due to the international reactions of the government's actions, should be promoted and improved as much as possible by the government. Let us hope that this step will also promote this. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it would be an important objective, and, by the way, the government also has the opportunity to give more support to Hungarian businesses in the context of the 2016 budget, thus facilitating development and research, as they would be able to make even more use of the opportunities provided by this institute. We would also consider it important for the state to contribute to patent awards and thus help businesses, as we have seen that the number of these patents has unfortunately decreased over the last few years, although Hungary has a great potential for patents and improvements. It would be appropriate for companies to be assisted by the State with the aid for fees, since the reduction of these patents is largely due to this fact in Hungary, because it is extremely difficult for companies to pay these fees. So I wanted to draw attention to them in addition, and the Hungarian Socialist Party will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-13-34	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-05-13-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the participation of Hungary, the convention before us will create a new international organisation with the participation of the V4 countries, which will help the countries of the region to gain more effective access to the international patent procedure. The Institute will have its seat in Budapest, so there is also a need for a headquarters agreement. The renewal of the agreement is that it gives Hungarian-speaking citizens of the region access to the international patent procedure not only from the territory of Hungary, but from the entire Carpathian Basin. As Hungary has the opportunity to join the Institute in other countries not part of the Visegrád Four, Hungary must do everything in its power to join the countries in which a significant Hungarian minority lives, as if so, they could submit their patent applications in their mother tongue. For our part - as a political force committed to our brothers across borders - we would consider this extremely important and we trust that we will see substantial efforts from the government side in this direction. Taking advantage of the existing capacities of the authorities of the four Visegrad countries, the region's inventors and businesses will be able to benefit from a patent cooperation agreement covering 148 countries in the world, PCT's system. This also provides an opportunity for patent applicants from participating countries to launch an international patent application in their own language and to receive assistance for their questions in the course of the proceedings. In addition, Visegrád research and investigation reports on protection offer a cost-effective opportunity to obtain international law through available tariff concessions. The establishment of the institute can also be part of a global initiative, currently involving 19 patent organisations, to enable inventors in the Central European region to quickly and effectively obtain patent protection for their solutions within a global framework in the countries involved in the cooperation. On this basis, the bill is eligible, and the Jobbik Group will, of course, vote in favour of it. What I would like to add is that further steps should be taken in order to reduce the time for patent applications. In 2014, the gross lead time for completed national notifications was 30,2 months, while the average lead time for the application for European patents was 5.2 months. Here, however, we can face a rather significant difference, so there is plenty of work to be done in this area. We hope that the agreement itself, the agreement, can promote this, and that it can substantially improve this situation. What is particularly important is that the establishment of the Institute can further strengthen cooperation between the Visegrád countries in other areas and bring the region's businesses into competition. In particular, we consider it important to put small and medium-sized enterprises in a position to benefit, opening the way to them in foreign markets as well. In this hope and with these comments, we can support the bill for the adoption of the Convention. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-13-36	Thank you, Congressman Tibor Bana. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-05-13-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP welcomes this international agreement, in which the Visegrád Patent Institute will be established with the Budapest Center. This, in our view, will, above all, help domestic businesses to obtain a simpler and cheaper European protection. It is a positive development that, taking advantage of the existing capacities of the authorities of the four Visegrad countries, it will be possible for inventors and businesses in the region to benefit from patent cooperation and contract arrangements covering 148 countries worldwide. This will also allow patent applicants from participating countries to start an international patent application in their mother tongue and to receive answers to their questions in the course of the proceedings in their mother tongue. Visegrád research and investigation reports on protection will be more cost-effective in the area of international law acquisition through available tariff concessions. The establishment of the institute can also be part of a global initiative currently involving 19 patent organisations that enables inventors in the Central European region to obtain patent protection for their solutions within a global framework, quickly and effectively in the countries participating in the cooperation. This complements the planned European patent system with unitary effect, which will help the whole world, including domestic businesses, to obtain European protection in a simpler and cheaper way in the EU internal market. Of course, this is all worth something when there are Hungarian innovations and patents, when research and development is boosted in Hungary. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, and the state is spending less and less not only on specific research and development, science, but also on the basis of higher education and even on basic and secondary education. This presents a rather sad future in the field of innovation. [[12.10]] This is confirmed by the process that the government does not see the future in the high added value sectors, many of which are facing an innovation revolution, such as the renewable energy industry, but essentially the role of a assembly plant for Hungary, with low wages and monotonous physical work. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-13-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Berke Brown reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I see that on behalf of the rapporteur, Secretary of State, Mr Barna, wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. The microphone has been installed. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-13-39	[[The microphone doesn't work properly.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the leaders of the political groups... [[He's controlling his microphone.]]
u2015-05-13-40	I assume you're about to get some help, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Berke Brown will finish adjusting the microphone.]] Perfect. Here.
u2015-05-13-41	First of all, I would like to thank the leaders of the political groups for their contributions. We have, of course, listened to all their suggestions with great attention and need for meaningful consideration. Allow me to react very briefly in a few sentences. With regard to regional cooperation outside the Visegrad Patent Institute, I mentioned in my introductory sentences that if we only look at industrial property rights and patent law issues, the judicial training centre with unitary effect and one of the regional divisions of this unitary jurisdiction were also transferred to Budapest. The regional division will be implemented in Hungarian, Slovenian and Croatian tripartite cooperation, according to government declarations of intent, once this new system comes into force. With regard to cooperation in the framework of the Visegrad Four, let me say from our home, first of all, that judicial cooperation - I think that can be set without exaggeration - is excellent in this circle. As an example of this, let me mention that before the European Union's Justice Ministers' Councils, it took place on the last time in a V4+2 framework, which means that the Polish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian Four was added to Croatia and Slovenia, so in this, let's say, a V6 round, I led the event myself, a consultation, a consultation, a consultation on the subjects covered by the EU legislative agenda, proposals for an exchange of views and a possible coordination of opinions. So this kind of regional cooperation is, and works, our goal in justice policy. Of course, the government is interested, especially in the use of the Hungarian language, in order to enable the expansion of the regional patent institute we are discussing. As a last sentence, let me say that, in terms of procedural fees and deadlines for administration, work is currently being carried out to ensure and maintain a user-friendly level of fees. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-13-42	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Berke Brown. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. a general debate on the amendment of law and of certain legislative provisions relating to the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority until closure. The submission was made by T/4644. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Berke Barna, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-13-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill on the Parliament's table is to amend certain rules governing the procedures of the Hungarian Competition Authority, GVH, in order to improve procedural efficiency, and to focus on the interests of customers in order to speed up procedures. As a general introductory sentence, let me highlight the following. The public interest in maintaining economic efficiency and market competition for the development of the country, as well as the interests of businesses and consumers fulfilling the requirements of business integrity, requires the state to ensure the purity and freedom of economic competition by means of legislation and participation in international contractual and EU legal systems. This requires the adoption and enforcement of competition rules which prohibit market behaviour which are contrary to the requirements of fair competition or restricting economic competition, abuse of a dominant position, and the concentration of undertakings on the scale which is detrimental to competition. So what is essentially advocated by the right to competition in the economy - and here it is worth removing the substantive, subject-matter boundaries and keeping them in the discourse, in any dispute - and what it deals with, as validated by the Competition Authority and the competition authority of the European Union, is the so-called cartel ban law, the law prohibiting abuse of a dominant position, merger control, control of corporate concentrations above a certain size and the prohibition or imposition of conditions on appropriate grounds. In addition to the substantive bans on competition law and other provisions allowing a wide range of enforcement considerations, an institution and a procedural regime that can create and operate an effective competition authority is naturally necessary to ensure strong fact-finding, investigation rights and powers. However, as an equally important factor, the procedural regime must guarantee the procedural and guarantee rights of businesses, market participants, market participants in contact with the competition authority, both within the meaning of the domestic constitutional standard and within the meaning of the European Convention on Human Rights or the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. We know well: in international law development, companies also have human rights, specifically in the area of procedural guarantees and, of course, in the area of property protection, economic competition law and competition law procedures must be based on these parameters and the following criteria. [[12.20]] Well, all these visionary and principled goals move our thinking, and, of course, the aspect is also to try to help the competition authority work as efficiently as possible, speeding up procedures in the interests of customers. It is therefore necessary to monitor, evaluate and correct competition law on a continuous basis. If we can recall for a moment, we have had basically two types of legislation in the series or history of amendments to the Competition Act over the last two decades. They were more comprehensive in the series of amendments to the Competition Act. Let me, for example, recall the amendment of the law adopted in December 2000, in which I was also able to contribute as one of the race officials. In this amendment of the law, fundamental procedural laws were introduced into the system. Or let me refer to the new competition law application regime that came into force in May 2004 by joining the European Union. According to its essence, the cardinal change meant that antitrust law, such as cartel law, had been centralised at the level of the European Union. In practice, this was done by automatically applying EU competition law to specific market behaviour by the Commission, the competition authority of the European Union. Now, in this traditional model, there was a big turnaround in the spirit of decentralisation. This meant that from May 2004 national competition authorities in the EU Member States and courts could apply EU cartel rules directly. The experience of this already 11-year-old law enforcement practice, let me say, we are evaluating it now, and probably the next larger-breathed competition law revision can be a follow-up to this assessment, along with the additional need, which also follows from EU legislation, that it is necessary to adopt in 2016 the domestic implementing rules that the EU Compensation Directive requires. It therefore introduces a new legal model which basically addresses procedural and evidence issues of damages claims for infringements of competition law, which can be enforced before a court in ordinary civil litigation. In addition to the larger-breathed amendments to the competition law, the second type I have referred to has been the type of legislation amending the competition law in the last two decades, when, in principle, the Competition Authority, reflecting on the experience of court proceedings, evaluated by some modernising, minor and major procedural regulatory changes have been made. Such corrective or modernisation arrangements were carried out by governments regardless of colour. I think that was the right thing to do. It is a good effort for governments to help the competition administration, of course by providing a professional evaluation and legal input to the proposals. This kind of professionalism or legal revision has also been made in the present case as the Ministry of Justice, as a national, assessing the experience, making proposals for a more efficient and faster operation. We can say that there have been certain ideas that we have not supported as the Ministry of Justice, as its author, but that we want to make it the subject of a larger, wider, longer and more thoughtful analytical evaluation work. After all, allow me to address a few points of the current bill. In addition to certain corrections to procedural detail rules, a new regulatory solution is included in the present proposal. This means that, in the context of the possibility of imposing a competition supervision fine, we represent in the proposal that, as a kind of support for small and medium-sized enterprises or as a kind of special attention to them, given their specific situation, it should also be possible, in future, in competition surveillance procedures, to follow what could already be followed in general official controls, so that small and medium-sized enterprises should not be required to pay fines in the first cases of infringement detection. Instead, they should be given a kind of warning and an invitation to conduct themselves on the market in accordance with the Competition Act. This favourable treatment is limited by a certain exception. This exception is important because we also want to clarify that the implementation of public procurement cartels, price fixings, market distributions in the framework of public procurement procedures entails fines under the general regime, without any exception and without any exception. Dear Parliament, Let me briefly draw attention to the fact that we are proposing an amendment to this proposal on a further point relating to public procurement. According to the proposed new provision, if the Minister responsible for public procurement and the use of European Union funds informs the Hungarian Competition Authority that, in the course of the monitoring, monitoring of public procurement procedures, contracts or contract amendments, he or she finds or has reasonable grounds to believe that there is a breach of the provisions of the competition law or of the EU competition law which prevent cartels, he or she is entitled to transmit to the Economic Competition Authority all data relating to this alleged potential infringement in order to investigate the case effectively by competition authorities. We believe that this option will help to combat more effective infringements of competition law affecting public procurement and the use of EU funds. We therefore want to help ensure that this meaningful action is carried out in practice in all the necessary cases and that it works effectively and that the data are available for this. Dear Parliament, The current proposal also seeks to respond to a controversial point in the regulation of the agricultural sector on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation. [[12.30]] In the past, Hungarian competition law did not take into account the characteristics of agriculture that differ from other sectors. These particular features are also dealt with by the competition regulation of the European Union itself in a certain framework of content, which reflects on them. The 2012 amendment of the so-called inter-branch law concerning the agricultural sector laid down specific, more favourable competition provisions for agricultural products, requiring that no infringement of the cartel ban provisions of the Competition Act cannot be established in respect of agricultural products if the distortion, restriction or prevention of economic competition resulting from this agreement has not exceeded what is necessary to achieve economically justified, reasonable income. This special regulation also stipulated that the Hungarian Competition Authority should suspend the imposition of fines in this sector in the case of agreements between undertakings which were in breach of competition law concerning agricultural products. In this bill, on the one hand, we want to include these rules on the procedure of the Hungarian Competition Authority, the specialities concerning the agricultural sector, in the Competition Act, and in the amended legislation applicable from 1 September 2015, we would clearly state that the specific provisions of domestic competition law on agricultural products will continue to exist, operate, prevail, as was the case in the earlier interbranch law. These specialties can therefore be preserved in the Hungarian competition law on domestic relations. These specific provisions will therefore apply to specific market action if the competition rules of the European Union do not apply and are not applied in the context of the procedure and decision of the Economic Competition Authority. Thus, the domestic competition law application and the EU competition law application are separated from its powers, according to our proposal, the new treatment of the special competition regime governing the agricultural market, in which, I repeat, the specialities of the application of the provisions of the Hungarian competition law previously laid down may be maintained. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In conclusion and in many details of the procedural provisions at this point, I do not believe that, in our view and best intention, the proposed legislation is in the interests of citizens, consumers in the economy and undertakings that comply with competition law, by clarifying, modernising the rules on GVH procedures, while at the same time facilitating the speed of administration and the effectiveness of competition law action. In view of all this and the content of the proposal, we ask for the support of the honourable Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-13-44	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Berke Brown. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a bill that will make life easier for businesses and that will make it more precise. I think, and I hope, that more of us are, when we want to increase the purity of competition and the efficiency of the Hungarian Competition Authority, that we are protecting those small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and perhaps we can also say that ultimately we are protecting consumers, we are protecting entrepreneurs who would be more vulnerable in themselves to abuses and cartels, which are most often threatening them by multinationals with stronger powers of interest. The Hungarian competition law currently in force is a clear guide for market participants, who participate in the commercial process from either producer, supplier or consumer sides in any field of economic life. The law, which, by virtue of its function, protects the public interest in economic competition and the interests of competitors and consumers, adapts flexibly to rapid and minor changes in economic conditions. The experience of domestic economic life shows that our competition law is able to protect new companies that are entering the market mass, to set standards and directions for the behaviour of market players, and to ensure that any changes are made without further amendments to the law. It is important that our competition law is harmonised with the competition rules of the European Community, which serves not only to meet the European Community's expectations, but also to create a competitive position for Hungarian entrepreneurs and consumers in the same way as other players in the European market. However, in order to keep it that way, it is sometimes necessary to revise the law and to make minor or major amendments to it. The proposal before us amends four laws containing provisions concerning the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority. These are: (1) LVII of 1996 on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition. Act 2; 2. the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and official supervision. Act 3; 3. CVIII of 2011 on Public Procurement Act CXXVIII of 2012 on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation. Law. Dear House, Experience over the past period has shown that it is necessary to amend the rules on certain issues in order to make the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority more effective. It is very important, it can be said that it is a very important new element of regulation, as Mr Secretary of State has said and stressed, that in competition surveillance procedures, the Economic Competition Authority may use a warning tool for small and medium-sized enterprises instead of a competition supervision fine if they commit an infringement in the first instance. I would like to say a few words about this later. With regard to public procurement procedures, the situation of the Economic Competition Authority in the field of public procurement is strengthened. Following the adoption of the draft in this form, if the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds finds that there is a breach of competition rules, it must be notified to the Economic Competition Authority and may transmit any data to the GVH, thereby helping to combat illegal entrepreneurs and businesses. For information, I would also like to say to you that the provisions under which the prohibition of an agreement between undertakings in the competition law on agricultural products, as has already been said, cannot be established if the distortion, restriction or prevention of economic competition resulting from the agreement does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve economically justified income, are transferred from the interbranch law to the competition law. In addition, the Economic Competition Authority may suspend and suspend the imposition of a fine in the event of conduct contrary to the prohibition of an agreement between undertakings where it has been committed in respect of an agricultural product. [[12.40]] The regulation states even more clearly than the previous provisions that special rules are only applicable in line with EU expectations if EU competition rules are not applied. Dear House, The bill will have a number of positive effects on the daily lives of businesses. Firstly, the rules on concentrations will be more precise, so businesses involved in this will be more easily able to avoid the risk of unintended infringement. Secondly, by removing regulatory barriers which may lead to a delay in the procedures of the Economic Competition Office, the duration of the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority may be shorter, allowing faster action to be taken against the undertakings which have infringed. It can be said that there is a considerable burden and, perhaps, that the provision that says that, for the first time when the undertaking is in breach of competition law, the Hungarian Competition Authority may waive the imposition of a fine relieves the anxiety of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the past, the authorities did not have the opportunity to do so, even if they were aware that the irregularity was not intentional, but, where appropriate, omission, incoherence or lack of routine. In such cases, the Competition Authority may use a warning, taking into account consumer interests, since it will not be possible to apply the warning instead of a fine, for example, if the infringement is made against a person particularly vulnerable. I would also like to note that this is a major change of approach, with which we wish to send a message to businesses that we are not looking for fines, but are trying to help them operate in accordance with the rules. There are two other cases where the fine will continue, even for the first time. One of these exceptions is the case where two undertakings enter into an agreement to fix prices or to distribute the market during the procurement procedure. The second is when price fixing and market allocation are created as a result of a coordinated action. In these cases, I think we can say that there is no room for patience, but it is a significant step forward that the legislator does not agree with the intended and unintended infringement for the first time. The proposal also has the advantage of contributing to the success of actions against undertakings which have committed an infringement in the context of a public procurement procedure with the aforementioned ministerial information facility. Finally, with regard to agricultural products, let me say that previous special rules remain in the case of practices which do not require the application of EU competition rules. Competition legislation will also be clearer in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, Some of us may have the criticism that too often the competition law will be amended. However, I would like to point out that the law implementing the most recent comprehensive amendment was adopted two years ago in 2013, and it should be noted that it is in the interest of market participants to review the adequacy of the rules governing competition surveillance procedures. With regard to interbranch law, I would also like to point out some of the cornerstones that it is important to emphasise. There is no change compared to previous legislation. The 2012 Act also states that domestic legislation will only be applied if it is not required to act on the basis of an EU legal act. For us, it is clear that, as a result of the primacy of Community law, Member States' legislation cannot override EU provisions, because Community law must be given priority. The amendment makes it more clear that the special rules apply if trade between Member States is not affected if EU competition law does not apply. Accordingly, the protection of farmers in this area is not reduced, but remains in the circle where the rules of the Hungarian Competition Act apply. Here too, we can say that the legislation in this form of the bill meets the EU's expectations and also protects domestic farmers. To sum up, I think that the proposal is making small but important changes, making it easier on the one hand and protecting Hungarian businesses and consumers more than ever. That is why I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-13-46	Thank you, Congressman Péter Cseresnyés. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-05-13-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Both the Secretary of State and the Member have already formulated the criticism I would like to begin by saying that there are too often changes to competition rules. This was said by my fellow Member, and Mr Secretary of State said that a comprehensive revision would be expected in the near future. Perhaps you mentioned 2016 Mr. Secretary of State. This means that this bill, the amendment of the law on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition, is mainly aimed at changes of a technical nature. The amendment covers six thematic groups. The first is the control of mergers of companies, the subject of so-called merger control. Here, according to the amendment, the provisions governing the calculation of the net turnover to be taken into account in relation to the concentration of undertakings and the subsequent annual accounts to be duly closed shall be taken into account in the procedure. However, to this end, the proposal remained in debt and was not sufficiently substantiated. The amendment also concerns provisions on cases of non-payment of the administrative service fee. The bill allows the competition council acting on an individual request to contribute to the exercise of management rights before obtaining the licence by considering the circumstances. The following thematic group also concerns and amends the rules on access to personal data and protected data, as well as the processing of such data and access to the file. In a case where a judicial review of the decision of the authorities concerning access to the file can now be requested, this legal remedy will be terminated in the future. The proposal does not give reason for this, but merely refers to the acceleration of the procedure, which is therefore unacceptable to us. Indeed, the next group of topics will introduce an EU sample into the legislation and, as of 1 July 2014, the settlement procedure, the so-called settlement, has been published as a new element, enabling the Competition Authority to enter into an attempt to negotiate with the parties in the event of the discovery of the facts, the achievement of an appropriate level and the cooperation of customers. The amendment clarifies this as regards the rules governing the withdrawal of the settlement declaration and the consultation of the settlement declaration. The fourth group of topics, mentioned and welcomed by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, on the basis of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, which provides that the bodies carrying out official controls apply a warning to small and medium-sized enterprises instead of imposing a fine in the event of an infringement in the first instance. This is welcome to be found in this amendment. In the procedures conducted, this institution has not been legally applied, but this can happen here, in the course of this amendment, unless the conduct of the undertaking is contrary to the law of the European Union, the infringement is reflected in the conclusion of an agreement on the fixing of prices or the distribution of the market in the course of a public procurement procedure, or the infringement is made against a particularly vulnerable person. The fifth thematic group: the Minister responsible for public procurement and the use of EU funds, if he detects a clear breach of market competition rules during the verification of the regularity of public procurement, so that this is the case, or he assumes it for good reason, he must indicate it to the Hungarian Competition Authority. [[12.50]] The Minister for Public Procurement will be entitled to submit to the Competition Authority any information available through the control of the public procurement, contract or contract amendment concerned, with the exception of classified information. The last, sixth such category is the inclusion of legislation on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation in this legislation. This is about the fact that, for agricultural products, it cannot be established that there is a breach of the prohibition of an agreement restricting competition on the market, where, as a result of the agreement, the distortion, restriction or prevention of economic competition does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve economically justified, reasonable income, and that, from the acquisition of that income, the operator of the market covered by the agreement is not closed and Union competition rules are not applied. I would like to add two points to the bill. The first is a formal observation: the bill was not included in the government's spring legislative programme. The Parliament discussed the accounts of the Economic Competition Authority for 2013 on 1 April. In doing so, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State responsible for EU and international judicial cooperation, has indicated that the proposals put forward by the Competition Authority deserve substantive consideration. Since information on the social opinion of the draft legislation cannot be found on the government's website, it is assumed that this legislation was drawn up solely on the basis of proposals from the Hungarian Competition Authority. The other point is a substantive observation: the vast majority of the proposal is a technical, clarification, correctional amendment, and some changes in content. Some of these can be supported from a professional point of view, so, as I have already mentioned, mitigation against small and medium-sized enterprises, but some of them are concerned; they are concerned, which I mentioned earlier, to reduce the appeal against the decision of the authority to review the file. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will abstain during the vote because of these concerns. It should be rejected to limit the possibility of judicial redress. As I mentioned, there is no evidence of a conciliation of the bill, so this is also a critical observation. The Competition Authority is no longer the Competition Authority in 2013, as you have amended the Competition Act by allowing the government to consider the merger of undertakings as of public interest of national strategic importance, and such a merger does not require the authorisation of the Competition Authority. The Government has thereby undermined a strong authority at the Hungarian Competition Authority, which, although on paper, constitutes an autonomous administrative body, promotes economic competition and protects the interests of customers - that was the reference - but as you have amended this law, the Government prohibits the Competition Authority from fighting in certain cases with this provision to pursue the aforementioned objectives and to conduct appropriate procedures. This raises legitimate questions in all economic operators. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, on the basis of this provision, the Hungarian Competition Authority could not act in the course of the nationalisation of savings cooperatives, during the nationalisation of Antenna Hungária, in the case of the acquisition of state ownership in MKB Bank, WELT 2000 Kft. the acquisition of his share of his business as well as the acquisition of his share of the Knowledge of Generations by the Publisher and by the Apáczai Publisher. Clarification of the merger control regulation is not enough, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech: a comprehensive revision is indeed needed, and I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that when preparing this draft legislation, think of what I have just said and to remove the rules allowing the restriction of the Economic Competition Authority from the legislation, and this should no longer be part of the law in the next major amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-13-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-49	Mr President, Dear House, It should be noted that when a few weeks ago we discussed a report on the performance of the previous one-year period of the Hungarian Competition Authority here in plenary and before that in the Economic Committee, perhaps none of us were prepared to have a fundamentally technical package before us, but still an amendment, on which I do not wish to express myself in a condemning manner simply because this was submitted by the government. There are very useful points in this, very good points in the right direction, and indeed we can also see dangers and shortcomings that provide a very, very strong basis for the criticisms that we have just mentioned. We must say that the package that we have come before us was probably not included in the pre-published package of the government draft legislation, and there is a very strong assumption that the legitimate concerns raised by opposition representatives about the shortcomings in the competition in Hungary, at least without resonance, cannot be found in this package. We can also go to points that clearly show that there are facilitations. For example, the possibility of using a warning for small businesses instead of a mandatory fine under certain conditions, adding that fortunately this fine will remain mandatory when, say, the activity we are talking about is aimed at fixing prices. We need to see that we are talking about technical facilitations of competition law here, while there are, in the margins of Hungarian politics, dangers and phenomena on which the government either does not apply anti-competitive techniques or does not manifest itself. I'll give you an example: transatlantic investment agreement. Not only did the government not say that it was clearly rejecting this life - threatening initiative, but it also had a representative who was almost encouraging it to support it. I do not want to argue about the nuances of this, because we have already had this debate once, but it is clear that they would allow multi-company companies that would disposal over higher assets than the entire Hungarian budget could bring to private courts, let us say, cases against the Hungarian state, and you have not said or said a beta in this regard, and in a full day of debate, you have not rejected this principle, which would mean kicking in the stomach of competition law. So, in my view, we can argue here about technical amendments to the GVH and others, but the government is not taking any meaningful action or even manifesting itself in the face of astonishing danger tsunamis. We therefore ask here, at least in the closing words, to say something about the relationship of the government with the Transatlantic Investment Agreement, how it considers this initiative, whether it supports it or not. It is clear that in the former case, they will have to take very serious opposition measures, since we want to prevent this madness from going through with all democratic means. And again, the fact that small entrepreneurs can be made with a warning instead of a mandatory fine, I think it is an eligible direction, since it introduces a right of discretion that makes the situation of Hungarian entrepreneurs easier. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I might add, I don't know whose guess these amendments have been made, but there are some amazing incoherences here and there. Like Tpvt. 44. §2 of the Act is amended where a narrowing motion is introduced, according to which a third party may only access a document containing personal data or protected data under certain conditions. Then it's 55. Paragraph 2 states that this right can be exercised in return for reimbursement, so incoherent and conflicting provisions will be put into a quick proposal for a law that has been brought together in a matter of moments and is full of errors. You can see, then, that there are good directions, that we acknowledge, let us not say that this whole thing is a wasteful package, because it is not at all, it has very valuable points. However, there are dangers and gates left open by the government, and we cannot leave without saying a word. Not only in the closing words, but also in the spirit of a possible debate, we would demand the government's responses to this, because they would help us, on the one hand, to support as many parts of this package of proposals as possible and, on the other hand, to remove certain kinds of blur in the direction of voters. [[13.00]] What is perhaps the most interesting part of this package, is the area related to public procurement procedures and to the use of EU funds, where we see substantially that the government introduces a right of entitlement, the GVH is entitled to hand over to the GVH any documents available through the control of the public procurement, contract or contract amendment that will be included in the bill. What we don't understand here is why you're entitled. Therefore, if there is any suspicion of abuse, we have often heard not only the GVH, but also the perfectly legitimate objection from other bodies to initiate the procedure, to proceed, but simply not to obtain the necessary documents. You're not getting the documentation that allows you to perform. Well, what do you mean, you're entitled? It would be entirely justified, especially in the case of high-priority investments, that where there is a suspicion of abuse, it is mandatory not only to provide the complete documentation, but also to carry out the investigations that will enable the Hungarian national economy to be cleaned. We would be closer to processes such as competition in the real market. I am not saying that it could be achieved because, with such economic policy, it is impossible to achieve pure market competition, but at least it could be approached. This is where a package of public procurement could come in. The Jobbik put this on the table. We are very sorry that the government did not articulate a meaningful opinion here either. What are the three most important elements of our package of procurement and procurement procedures? The immediate elimination of restricted applications and procedures, as this is a hotbed of corruption. Under both the MSZP governments and the Fidesz governments, you can see the amazing abuse sea that has come up in these areas. Here ten percent, 20 percent of local governments have already been written in Hungary, which is pathetic, and the national economy is amazingly mutilated, destroyed and distorted. So this is an unsustainable condition. As a second point, we proposed an automatic examination of the priority investments by a public authority or body which is not under the control of the government, but directly under the control of Parliament. Here, in this package, there could be a similar one, so we can't see the reason why, after five years of almost two-thirds governance, the government couldn't have gotten away with one of these if it wanted to. In the third point, we should draw up a formula on acceptable prices, which are prices, say, in the case of a priority investment, which can still be justified by market processes and which are no longer justified by market developments. In this way, 90 percent of abuses could be excluded from the system. It is very important that small business operators should be warned, as you propose, only instead of fines. It's very important - but let's compare the two models. One affects 2-3 percent of cases, the other affects 90 percent of cases, and not to end up with the systemic solution coming from the opposition benches again, and you stroke that particular problem, but you don't really care about it. So I would very much ask you to adopt the corrective amendments. Submit it under your own name, it will not disturb anyone in this House, but something will happen in this area, and once again, it will make sense if, along with the Transatlantic Investment Agreement, the government finally says "A" or "B." So say that you support it, and then we will carry out the political battle by which we will try to convince you that this is pointless, and that this poses incredible dangers for Hungary. Or state that you do not support it, and then we do not need to bring it up again, there will not be so much debate about it, and perhaps there will be more time and energy for substantive questions. One or two elements of this package would therefore be very good, but at the same time I would like to remind both the Secretary of State and the MPs that there has been a very, very productive debate in the Economic Committee. This committee is characterised by the fact that the weight of professional debates is perhaps a little greater than that of the other committees, without prejudice, of course, to the other committees. So a very substantive and productive debate took place, where a great deal of opposition comments were made in the minutes, and where the government would have had the time and opportunity to respond substantially to them in its package now laid down. Let us start by saying that consumer protection issues in the case of the GVH represent a ratio of more than 50 per cent or more, but what about consumer groups? What has happened in addition to the fact that future ones have essentially been banned, but so far they can function smoothly? What happens to the product presentation mafia? I am now listing some of the issues that have been mentioned, and that should be in front of us in a package, not among the technical amendments, but between the substantive issues that affect the everyday life of Hungarian people. So, once again, with the product launch mafia, the government has not fully accounted for. The examination of banking practice is also an area that - although it may be on PSZF, which is integrated into the MNB and which talks about financial consumer protection there, although it is also very mutilated, but could also be made here with regard to the GVH, in this package it is worth making a statement. After all, we can see that a fine of 9 billion has been imposed along the end of the payment, but in terms of total volume and in the light of abuses, we can not only say that this is not enough, but it assumes that this entire banking process has not been reviewed at systemic level and that there has not been any action in relation to irregularities in banking practices. The question arises as to whether the government is doing or, let's say, creating a climate for the GVH or the Nébih to enable certain organs of the MNB to act - let's say, they could not intervene in this area, but in other areas. What we see in this bill, in the package before us, is that it is trying to touch the food chain inspection fee and it is trying to give a government license to take different measures in this area. But what's our problem? This proposal does not change the fact that the food chain monitoring fee can be avoided laughing at some multi-company companies, because if they manage their portfolio wisely, if their company assets are wisely distributed to different slices, pieces, they will almost completely avoid the food chain monitoring fee, which would have the function of protecting the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise, protecting the Hungarian supplier and burdening the multi to move them towards public burdens. On the other hand, we see that your proposal in this package does not allow Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to have easier access to the economic resources they otherwise deserve, and that the multinationals should finally move towards public burdens. We also need to see that amazing state subsidies also distort economic competition and that neither the Hungarian Competition Authority nor the government can resonate and interfere with substantive measures. At least that's interesting. Let's take an area, your turf. In five years, you also did not know the problem of circumferential debt, let alone sufficiently resolving it, and could not substantially touch the problem. Only in the asphalt industry, when highlighted, it is still typical of intermediary companies with 8-10 members taking most of the profits, skimming them, and often reaching the contractor, i.e. the people working with both hands, there is nothing out of the amounts involved. My position is that this technical amendment package should not replace, but in addition to, the government should deal with this, so that they do not commit suicide by the unpaid suppliers and workers, or that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should not spend their daily lives in such a climate, and this package will not say anything back, and has not been saying good-bye for five years. You have three more years guaranteed to be in a government position, unless there is force majeure, but we can say that, based on the five years of action, no one is actually expecting you to put these areas in order, and we could, we could still, we should have everything we are talking about here. The creation of a paradise for intermediary companies of 8-10 people and their ability to survive, while the simple working Hungarian people have little access to it, this is unsustainable. This is outrageous! Therefore, Jobbik's faction could fully support such a package if it could be said that the mechanism of action that such a bill would trigger would also help the daily lives of people living normally in Hungary. Yours has some good points, and I'll say it again, let's not discuss it, but it doesn't touch the whole thing on a systemic basis. He does not have the courage, and neither do you, since we have not yet been able to engage in productive debates on them, just once in the Economic Committee. I am very confident that a pro-government representative will now stand up, react to these, not accusations, because these are improved comments, there will be a fruitful debate, and this package will finally be amended so that it will be something productive for the Hungarian people, something useful, forward-looking, something that has vision and courage behind it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-13-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-13-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is not a year since the law that is now being amended entered into force. However, in view of the amendments, it is clear that most of them could have been incorporated at the time the law was drawn up if the preparation had been carried out properly if substantive discussions had been preceded. So we have to bring back the law because they have faced problems, and this method is constantly damaging the credibility of the legislation. This amendment contains elements to be supported. [[13.10]] For example, as my fellow oppositionists have said, a more gentle management of small and medium-sized enterprises. For the first time, they would only be given a warning, not a punishment; the measure is considered to be correct. However, there are measures that could be well-directed, but instead of setting objective criteria that can be called into account, it builds arbitrary decisions into the system. This is the possibility of requesting a separate GVH test for public procurement procedures. It is right that the GVH can also examine public procurement, as we can see, in particular, in the use of EU funds, that taxpayers will be harmed by billions of dollars in direct tenders for some players, excluding real competition. However, the special procedure can only be requested by the Minister responsible for public procurement or the use of EU funds, in this case by János Lázár, without any further restrictions. Unfortunately, it can be assumed that the Minister will not send all suspicious public procurement to the Competition Authority. The question is why others do not have the right to make such a request to the GVH. What is, however, the cancer of the entire legislative amendment is the treatment of food cartels. On the basis of the amendment, no distortion, restriction or prevention of economic competition in respect of an agricultural product may be established if the Agreement does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve economically justified and fair income and the operator of the market concerned by the Agreement is not excluded from this income and Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has not been applied. The Minister responsible for agricultural policy shall determine the existence of the conditions for exemption under the law. This, we believe, is an opportunity for abuse; it's enough to think about dirt dogs. This is also objectionable because experience has shown that with this arbitrary manual control, the government is unable to detect unfair distribution behaviour. This can be said even if Auchan has recently been punished with a large fine, since according to the Nebih table, which includes fines for unfair distribution behaviour, this can also be considered as an exception. It can be concluded that penalties are typically not dissuasive and complaints are persistent. Due to the shortcomings in the application of the law, the weakness of the authorities, the government is unable to protect suppliers and consumers effectively against profit maximization. The management of agricultural cartels highlights the damage suffered by government-loved legislation responding to individual cases and the fact that it is a clear victim of the Competition Authority. This bill, slightly refined, adds to Tpttv the scandalous exception rule created during the melon cartel, see the proposal, 16 and 21. §2 of the Act, which in practice excludes, or at least refers to the discretion of the Minister of Agriculture in his decision-making competence, which does not contain discretionary and objective criteria, to the sanctioning of cartel infringements in respect of agricultural products. The melon cartel was a beautiful example of how to squeeze out the autonomous GVH, if that is what is needed and make the system completely arbitrary, citing national interests, which turned out to be only the interests of some of Fidesz's close politicians. We also remember that on August 27, 2012, the Hungarian Competition Authority launched a competition monitoring procedure against all the large chain stores, including CBA, the Hungarian Melon Association and the Hungarian Interprofessional Organisation and Product Council, as they agreed on the price of the melon. As a reaction, the Parliament amended the interbranch law in autumn 2012. The proposal was submitted by the Fidesz representative, János Pócs himself, as a customary individual representative, obviously without any impact assessment or consultation. Therefore, in the case of cartel proceedings concerning agricultural products, or pending, the Economic Competition Authority is obliged to request the Minister for Rural Development's position on the issue of the applicability of domestic competition law and to continue its proceedings only on the basis of that position. The Hungarian Competition Authority also contacted the Minister for Rural Development and, according to his reply, it was not possible to establish the 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Article 11 As regards the conduct under consideration, the infringement provided for in Article 4 of this Regulation. In English, instead of GVH, the incompetent minister representing partial interests and lobbyists interpreted the law and decided a competition question. We stress that legislation can be put in place to protect domestic producers against foreign dumping, to help domestic producers access to the market and keep their markets. However, this can only be done by laying down clear, accountable conditions for everyone. Just because Fidesz has proven many times that it uses such privileged procedures not to protect the interests of the country, but only to feed its own moonyard. The same, later individual intervention case was also the rescue of the so-called trash cartel. A truly elegant solution was put into the Environmental Product Fee Act so that the GVH would not be able to examine public procurement in relation to waste management in 2012-13. The amendment has now entered into force from January, and as a result, competition supervision will not be able to establish unfair behaviour on the market or any violation of the prohibition of competition in its procedures in waste collection and recovery tenders. In one case, such an investigation was carried out, but the procedure had to be terminated under the Product Charges Act, as it also concerned pending cases. The reasons for the referral were that public procurement for the collection and recovery of waste would, by their nature, require the parties that started to consult and cooperate with each other. However, instead of defining what cooperation is allowed, the whole sector has been excluded from competition regulation, allowing wide scope for cartels that harm consumers and the state. In this case, competition supervision could have imposed a penalty of ten billion, i.e. the people who submitted the bill caused the State ten billion dollars in damage and once again strengthened the dog culture. The impact of these individual interventions is very dangerous, because sooner or later the Hungarian Competition Authority will be completely discouraged and will wait for political approval. In particular, it is the result of its statutory procedures in certain cases that its powers will be reduced. We know that Fidesz's Moonyard benefits from this kind of political manual control, but it is against the interests of the country and of the well-functioning economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2015-05-13-52	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now would be an opportunity for independent representatives to speak and two-minute speeches, but no one in this genre has asked for a word, so we will continue with the speeches. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Szilágyi György is coming to a proper speech.
u2015-05-13-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The changes made in the bill before us and the clarifications to support the economic competition procedure have been drawn up on the basis of the experience of the past one or two years. In itself, the fact that, following the comprehensive amendments that entered into force on 1 July 2014, we now have to decide again on new amendments raises the question of how well the current proposal has been based and how well it has been established in 2014 that we need to talk about this again. The Act on Fair Market Behaviour is intended to prohibit all market behaviour which restricts competition to the detriment of consumers and to create a system of instruments and institutions for effective action against these behaviours. [[13.20]] These are behaviours, such as the unfair background agreement of companies building motorways, which drastically raises prices and divides the market among themselves by excluding competition. In connection with the construction of motorways and motorways, unfair market behaviour has been going back decades. Let us remember the words of Ibolya David, who may have been telling the truth in the last 20 years when he declared that 70:30 percent of the profits that are added to each other are the current governing party and the current opposition. Unfortunately, this has been typical for the past 20-25 years, which is why we can say that this country is keeping us here, which is why we can say that the government forces that have been ruling this country for the past 25 years have a huge responsibility in this, which is why we can say that this great coalition that has developed on these issues is thanks to you, because of those XX. For centuries of parties that have designed and built this whole system as it is. For example, we can talk about behaviours where business decisions are influenced by artificially creating conditions during the call for proposals that preclude objective comparisons with other services. For example, in order to give examples of this, the modernisation of public lighting systems requires conditions that only one company can obviously meet. There is also an excellent example of this: the company of the Prime Minister's son-in-law and the explosive development of this company and its sudden, perhaps not unexpected, market penetration. The question is, if you hadn't created this medium, would the company of the Prime Minister's son-in-law still be so successful, so that he could win these various acquisitions. The law before us therefore contains rules on the prevention of such cases and, if already in place, on how to deal with them. The text of our current law, based on practical experience, was not suitable to prevent these cases or, according to the numerous well-known examples, to deal with these cases, which have unfortunately already occurred. However, the amendment before us does not eliminate these shortcomings of the law. The current amendment proposal is an unscrupulous hypocrisy on the part of the government that is inadequate to solve real problems, in order to deal with appearance changes such as the present proposal rather than to comply with the existing written legislative provisions, above all, and then consistently with market participants. Is it possible to act on these matters? Allow me to give you an example. In the last period of the Demszky-éra, the Metropolitan Municipality paid HUF 6 billion for public procurement in the four-year term until 2010. They had a well-built scheme of why it became HUF 6 billion, and what procurement procedures the Metropolitan Municipality conducted at that time. The laws did not change, there was no other factor, there was only one factor that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary was included in the Budapest General Assembly in 2010, and György Szabó, a better representative of the Metropolitan Municipality was the President of the Public Procurement Committee. How much punishment did the Municipality of Budapest pay from 2010 to 2014 compared to the previous term, compared to HUF 6 billion? I'll tell you, zero, zero forints. Why? Because they have consistently enforced the law. The first step of György Szabó was to go to a meeting at his very first public procurement work where the leaders and agents of the companies who did that work met and took part in this meeting. He found that they had discussed among themselves how much they overcharged, how they were redistributing the money, and when they got to him, they asked him, "What company do you represent?" He said he doesn't represent a company, he's the president of the Public Procurement Committee of the City Council. By the way, this investment failed at that moment, it was withdrawn from that point, and they knew very well that, from now on, there was a man there who would normally enforce the things relating to the public procurement procedure. So it could be done, because that would be a very important question. One last example. My fellow Member has already mentioned the system of circumferential debts. Yes, such was the Whale, the CCS project in the capital, where who were the families of those whose families were destroyed again? The workers who did the real work. The offshore companies benefited, which the Demszky Gábors involved in this project, everyone was doing well, from the main contractor to everyone; there was only one layer who did the work, who worked there effectively, who built this facility effectively, and their families were almost ruined, and there were even those who were ruined, because they didn't get the money. The key to Hungary's success is economic competitiveness, which has not significantly improved in recent years, the often changing, often untraceable regulation and almost always inconsistent implementation are one of the main conditions that undermine competitiveness in addition to corruption. It is not realistic to expect fair market behaviour when the State itself creates unfair relations and follows unfair practices in economic decisions. For example, here we could mention traffutty, gambling and casinos, land leases, arbitrary Sunday shop closures, and more. It's just that when we put these on the list, that's how it happened yesterday when we were in Btk. Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, was very offended by the fact that we dared to list these facts as to the extent that this country had no consequences, and it could be done without consequences that, for example, certain economic sectors would be eliminated or you would eliminate them and give them, say, to their friends, acquaintances and relatives. That's how it happened with the tramps, and it's no problem that families get ruined again. Or we considered the gambling law to be just as unfair, their gambling decisions, at the expense of the state, the state company, Szerencségy Zrt. To the detriment of them, they were willing to play out this entire market for a gentleman named Andy Vajna, who has, since then, thanked him very much for his activities, and he knows how to increase the wealth he has already had. Therefore, the best way to promote fair market behaviour would be for the regulatory state itself to act fairly, consistently and predictablely, not in the way we see it in Hungary today, wherever we look at it. And yes, Dániel Z. Carpathian was clearly right that we have no illusions, we do not believe that you will change in these remaining three, say, three and a half years, while you may govern this country. This situation will change, and we will be able to fight corruption, as well as enforcing rules on market factors, and everything else, if there is a radical change in the country's leadership; we will be able to change if XX. In fact, centuries of parties do get out of power and come with such, XXI. 100th century parties that break up with the tradition that you have developed and built in Hungary over the past 25 years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-13-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-13-55	Mr President, Dear House, A XXI. In our view, a debate worthy of a century would also involve a real debate. We are now living in the hour of words crying out in the wind in this regard, and we very much hope that at least the burden of the minutes will not be unjustified, since what we say will remain in the minutes, but we must force some government action and response system. That's, to say the least, incomplete. So let us talk about how, if there is courage in the government, as unfortunately it is not at the moment, it could touch this system. In fact, let's take the outcome of the problem. How is it that, whether we are looking at individuals in Hungary or at small and medium-sized enterprises, we see that the brutal tax burden - in addition to the fact that the tax of the poor, the 27 percent VAT, is also on a European record - is paralyzing the economy, distorting competition, and instead of interfering with the government, what is it doing? [[13.30]] It introduces or raises more than 40 new taxes, so this applies to 40 tax types, and we can also say that it introduces exotic tax types in Hungary such as taxes on artificial flowers or shampoos that do not affect me so much. So it can be said that they are creating an amazing environment. Let's see what they do for individuals. Here comes a 1% personal income tax reduction, which I don't just support, I'm fully supportive, I'm your fan, I'm your fan. I would say, let's say that the VAT reduction, which concerns basic food and child-rearing products, and Jobbik would deliver both to 5 percent over the years, would be more important, because the spread-over effect would be greater than this 1% reduction - but let's not be against it, let's appreciate what we have. Economic performance could do a lot more. It was Mihály Varga who led up the very illustrious numbers at the beginning of the week. If the GDP, which is based mainly on foreign networks and the activities of multi-company companies, is really going so fast, there could be more benefits for Hungarian families. We don't see these. But let us look at an OECD survey, which perhaps not even the Secretary of State will argue, and perhaps not even the pro-government representatives, on this basis only Belgians, Austrians and Germans are paying more taxes than we do. And unfortunately - I wish it weren't - family tax relief doesn't improve the situation, although this is what pro-government politicians do in residential forums. According to the investigation, last year, the average wage - again, the average wage - increased to 36 per cent, and even after the 1 per cent concession, we will still be the fourth most taxed economy in this area, taking into account the situation of individuals. We can also see what's going on with the surrounding countries. In Romania and the country called Slovakia, the tax wedge is more than 10 percent lower than in Hungary at the moment. And yet what do you do when you are a small and medium-sized entrepreneur, say, supplier, say, someone who has not been paid off at the Megyeri Bridge or elsewhere, is at the bottom of the circle chain, and you see that in this package we are still talking only about the distinction between warning and fine; they are still just talking about whether the minister responsible for public procurement or the use of European Union funds is experiencing a case or if the GVH is experiencing abuse, it may be entitled to release the documents. What do you mean, he's entitled? Be mandatory, carry out mandatory inspections, rounding-ups, or a public building authority that is able to withdraw, and its sanctioning system includes suspending any mega-investment if a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise is not paid. Our aim is not to stop investments, but where such a system works, for example, in German, it can be said that merely the threatening weight of the sanction is sufficient to ensure that these abuses do not occur in most cases or that these chains do not start. Let us look very briefly at what you face when you are an entrepreneur. By guaranteeing a minimum wage of 122 thousand forints. Again, we refer to examples that are also circulating on the Internet that contain data sets that are accessible to anyone. So the guaranteed minimum wage is 122 thousand forints. In terms of health insurance contributions, HUF 12 810 is payable next, HUF 2745 in terms of labour market contributions, HUF 12 200 in terms of pension insurance contributions, and the social contribution tax, which - how interesting its name is, as it has been changed - is no longer necessarily to be used for the original purpose, can be allocated to something else, which is HUF 37 057 in this case. The total contribution payable is HUF 64 812 per month, after the guaranteed minimum wage of 122 thousand. Here comes the various types of tax that are implemented in terms of personal income tax, in the case of corporate income tax, in all other cases, after the dividend fund, and can be classified by morning. In an extremely overtaxed environment, the economy is dried up in Hungary. And it is very difficult to talk about competition on a purely market basis in this dried-up economy, as state subsidies also distort the market, in the interest of vulnerable Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and suppliers, we do not see that anyone stands up to merit, because what happened to those who were not paid and, let's say, at the time of the 2010 government change, they handed over their complaints in the square or at any other forum, how many people have been compensated, how many of the signatories to the previous treaty are in prison. We see - and I wish we didn't see this - that there are no consequences, and we are still arguing about this, that a mandatory fine should be imposed, which, by the way, should be justified in the case of price fixing, or that it could be a warning. Once again, I support the fact that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can escape with a warning what they may have had to endure with a mandatory fine. We are in favour of this, but let them touch on the whole at systemic level, because we have been conducting these debates year after year in Parliament, and very often only the leader and the notaries change, but we can say that we have been sitting against each other almost the same way since 2010, we are having the same kind of debates and nothing happens. This is an amazing waste of resources, at a time when the number of children born is still below 100,000, unfortunately, when Hungarian population loss is still a record. Thus, the projected impact of economic alleged development, its multiplier effect, is not felt in everyday people's lives, it does not have easier access to the education system; it does not have easier access to health; no more children are born; basic foods are still horribly expensive because of the brutal EU record VAT; child rearing is still a taxed luxury activity in Hungary, since family tax incentives cannot reduce the tax burden to such an extent that we can achieve something more favourable than the European fourth best-taxed place, something better for people. Therefore, when we talk about how we got here, you can see that XX. With the methods of the 20th century, the 20th century With its past centuries of dusty, musty political disputes, this lukewarm footwater, where nothing ever happens. On the other hand, we are asking you to finally take part in the 21st century. Let the productive debates take place according to the challenges and methods of the century. They've been authorized by their voters, not to sit around lukewarmly, not to hold the same debates every six months. Gather, please, your courage to speak at last, because if this does not happen, not only will it happen in the next three years that we will have the same debates, because we will not be afraid of us, we will have the same apparent debates, even without reply, but the voters will certainly draw conclusions from this which will make it impossible for you to govern this country from 2018, because you should also answer your own voters by giving answers to these questions. The decision is yours. We've already crossed Rubicon, XXI. We've come here with 100-year-old improvements, positive, productive proposals. Now it's your turn to decide if it's XX. They're either gonna stay in the century or they're gonna come after us in the 21st. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-13-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Berke Barna, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. You have a 30-minute window of time at your disposal, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-13-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We thank, of course, all the leaders of the factions, all those who have made a meaningful, agreeable or critical contribution to the content of the bill on the table, and we will consider these comments, and we will especially thank them for their supporting comments. Several speakers have left the meeting room, so allow me to react very focusedly and briefly in a few sentences. At the beginning of my first comment, I explained what the subject matter of the proposed legislation is; what the right to economic competition means; what the operation of the Hungarian Competition Authority means; what it means is that it is domestic, Hungarian; whether it is competition law applied by the GVH in certain areas; and what it means that it is the law of the European Union and its application... [[13.40]] So, on all these professional issues, which, of course, may have a political content according to the approach, I have said all these things, so that the discussion and debate of the bill in Parliament takes place in a meaningful and serious medium, in a thematic bed, rather than in order to ensure that such elements of a frequently rolled slate wheel are mentioned and grinded by a political group. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is the peculiarity of Parliament, the general debate.]] Luckily, I hear it a few times, but it's not the first time. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that a number of the themes referred to here by one of the political groups will be discussed in their place when regulating the new public procurement law, obviously also in the budgetary debate, in the debate on a number of disciplines or policies. And questions that, I think, can be taken seriously by anyone in this country, such as simply listing problems for popular purposes, which exist, and the authorities know, are certainly well known by the people responsible for the legislation, but they do not say any solution or solution, and they are quite counterproductive over and over again. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Nothing is happening, and we have to listen to this!]] Let me just point out when I said in this introduction - once again, we are talking about the right of economic competition, its thematic framework, this proposal or the subject of the proposal - and I said at the outset that for several reasons we are giving a comprehensive consideration to the various parts of the law, such as consumer protection, which is indeed not the subject of the current proposal, but let me mention that, as we heard from the GVH report a few weeks ago, the persecution, activisation and sanctioning of consumer interests or entrepreneurship which is misleading consumers is a task that is constantly a priority and focussing on the Competition Office. But according to common sense, and in many other official activities, we can see it - not now, not in the last few years, but virtually constantly - that the activity based on the infringement and its ban and its action against the authorities is a kind of follow-up event. My point is that it has cardinal significance in our view, and we are working on this - and I have not heard a word about it from any particular group - we are working on the means and resources to strengthen consumer awareness, so that it does not constantly regenerate itself from the situation of putting groups of people in difficult situations with different violations, operations and manoeuvres. [[György Szilágyi and Dániel Z. Karpat intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] So we need to take this into account in a sound, normal, thoughtful action, and the awareness of consumers, people who have been described as economic operators or even small businesses, their information in different sectors, in terms of means of healing, in the financial sector, and we could still list it. So I just wanted to raise this as a question of perspective, because once again, despite stressing what we are talking about here today in connection with the bill, there are questions that have been raised in a variety of freely elected circles. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Lord! There's a general debate... the president's ringing.]] I wanted to respond to at least that much. And what is perfectly correct about the proposal itself, even critically, is, of course, considered, but everyone must know, and I think they also know, who are working as representatives in this House, that the legislative timetable is set out in many areas, including competition law, in part by implementing EU legislation. We are also obviously following this in the field of competition law, and when, indeed, I have said that there are certain technical rules in this bill, we have not put it this way, or others have put it this way, because they wanted to reduce their importance, but because if we see in the bill that there is a change in a provision, a deadline, a publication, a review of documents, a passage concerning when the management position of the controller can be exercised in the merger control process, these seem to be small issues, but these are issues in practice, whether in the official procedure or in the market players' perspective, important, practical issues that are at stake, and should be dealt with. With regard to the infringement of competition law in public procurement, there is once again a slight misunderstanding, perhaps out of thoughtfulness, perhaps consciously. What this bill seeks to settle, and here again I draw attention to the fact that, if there is a specific theme and a focus on it cannot speak on a credible and professional basis, it is even more capable of losing itself in larger contexts and being insensitive to appropriate solutions with proper sobriety. [[13.50]] So what we are talking about here in the field of public procurement and the use of data by competition authorities is that data acquisition, data transfer and data use had to be set up on a legal basis. If we don't settle this, we're gonna do the wrong thing because we're gonna lose an opportunity to perform, to discover facts, to obtain evidence. For the record, if we focus on the topic here and talk about it, then of course we would also know that the fact-finding and evidence toolkit of the GVH is very extensive beyond that. They may conduct an unannounced raid at the headquarters of a company or in private homes. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You know that it doesn't happen because you don't get permission. You know that's the problem. The president's ringing the bell.]] It happens a lot with proper judicial control. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Yes, but they do not receive permission.]] It happens very often for large companies as well as small companies. As regards the specific regulation for the agricultural sector, which has also been mentioned by many, I would like to say a sentence here. We are working in the direction in which we are working, and this bill serves the direction - if it is read carefully and then confirmed - to create the powers, competence, and competence of the Hungarian Competition Authority in the application of competition law, as is the case in other Western European countries. In the same way, it is regulated that there may be a specific national rule in terms of economic market actions, cooperation and cooperation in the local market, which the national competition authority enforces as such. When it comes to market economic action with a European dimension, the rules that constitute a European regulatory procedural regime as a legal source of the European Union will enter into force. This is also worth taking into account when trying to understand what this current proposal for an amendment to the agricultural sector is about in this law. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-13-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. I would like to inform you that Mr László György Lukács has withdrawn his speech after the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the work of the staff of the Chiefs of Minutes, the Office of Parliament. The Parliament will resume its meeting next Tuesday at 11 a.m. I wish you all a good day. See you next Tuesday. Thank you very much. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 2:01 p.m.]]
