u2015-06-09-0	Dear Parliament, The 38th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group:. World Environment Day, in the wake of the 2016 budget. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-06-09-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I very much welcome all 15 of my parliamentary fellow Members present. It is a great pleasure to talk about the environment here too, because unfortunately, there seems to be less and less room for talking about these areas.1972. On 5 June in Stockholm, world leaders met to set up an international conference on "Human and biosphere" on what a gap mankind is rushing towards and what the environmental challenges of XX are. At the end of the century, the world's societies have to face it. The many statements were followed by newer and newer conventions and cooperations, and a significant part of the civilized world realized that mankind had no future in a place where the fundamental right of people to a healthy environment was not guaranteed. Last week was the anniversary of this meeting of human and biosphere, the World Environment Day last week. In the previous days, we held a meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, where opposition amendments were discussed in the Committee's draft budget, in which it wanted to increase environmental and conservation costs. He wanted the Scent Road not only to be a political promise, but not only to have the 1.1 billion available to eliminate the environmental risk to human health in particular, but also to have the opposition parties wish to have a resource for concrete remediation, until the soil exchange. In the same way Minister Sándor Fazekas had a promise a year ago, when the basic resources needed for the operation were also taken from the national parks, that these funds would be available in the budget and that would not be granted as area aid by the national park board and then financed from the budget. Unfortunately, we didn't see any of that there either. However, in the same way, there is a infringement procedure against Hungary due to the excess of PM10 pollutants. The resources needed to reduce air pollution are also missing or insufficient in the budget. If people's health is not important to the government, then we really don't know what this budget does at all. Obviously, very, very many topics such as the promotion of the involvement of environmental and environmental NGOs, the performance of tasks arising from international conventions, all require budgetary resources. Yesterday there was a closing debate on the framework strategy for biodiversity on how Hungary is trying to protect its natural values. A week ago, we talked about the fourth national environmental programme. These are multi-page strategic documents, the implementation of which is not planned for any government source in the budget. Each of these will be checked as an obligation, as if the production of paper and such strategic documents could contribute anything to the improvement of the healthy environment of Hungarian citizens. As if they would help to preserve the natural resources that underpin the biodiversity of the Carpathian Basin and its human management. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because if the budget is not accompanied by specific budget support amounts, then there is nothing we can do about it. And in many cases, it is small amounts such as the planned amount of 50 million for inter-island monitoring. After all, on the other side of the border, the other party is constantly monitoring the different environmental impacts of the Danube. We haven't spent a crooked penny on this in a year, and in case of any dispute, when we have to prove the ecological and environmental damage to the Danube, we won't have any data, because we can't even provide this 50 million. The current representative of the Ministry of National Economy said that budgetary stability should be maintained, so there is no HUF 50 million. I am obviously surprised to hear such things when it comes to diverting the Danube from the territory of the country, and we do not want to obtain basic data for any dispute. The opposition parties not only put down their proposals on where to source resources, but in all cases they also proposed fully competent, reasonable solutions to draw these funds away from. Unfortunately, the representatives of the governing parties did not participate in these debates. With simple voting behaviour, all proposals were rejected, all voted down. My question and my point before the agenda is obviously that it would be reassuring for the government to commit to what it says at some level, because we constantly see that there are words, but there are no budgetary resources, no actions combined. It would be good if World Environment Day and the budget were so consistent that the strategies we adopt in Parliament [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And they can make it happen. I made a motion for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-09-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2015-06-09-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, My dear fellow Member, We fully agree that environmental protection and nature protection are part of the 21st century. One of the most important problems of the century. It needs to be dealt with in a strong and stressed way, and in the interests of our future, everything must be done to ensure that the tasks that fall on this generation are carried out in the interests of the next generation. I stress that there is currently an unprecedented development in the field of environmental and nature protection in Hungary. In recent years, the government has invested a great deal of resources to improve the country's environmental status. As a result, hundreds of investments have been made for nature conservation and tourism purposes. During the period 2007 to 2013, these environmental improvements were mainly implemented within the framework of the Environment and Energy Operational Programme. The key objective of KEOP is to promote the sustainable development of Hungary, reducing the environmental problems of Hungary, improving the quality of life of society and adapting it to economic and environmental processes. The programmes will continue to work with the same intensity in the future, as for the next five years, until the end of 2020, the government has allocated HUF 46 billion to finance conservation improvements. The draft budget law 2016 includes the so-called functional table, based on which it is actually visible or can be read that the amount of funding for environmental functions will be reduced in 2016 compared to 2015. However, the questions you're asking include slides. The reason for the decreasing resources in 2016 is that a number of appropriations have been allocated to each function in the functional function. This is also the case with environmental protection. The reduction is temporary and can be justified by the development of EU funds. 2015 is the final year of the EU aid period from 2007 to 2013. The nature of the EU funding system has led to a significant increase in payments this year. At the end of this year, the resources for 2007-2013 have to be accounted for, so that aid payments have increased significantly in 2015 in order to ensure that unused funds are not lost. Therefore, there is an increased aid intensity in 2015. In addition, this year's year is the start-up year for the years 2014-2020, and a steady increase in payments is expected from the CFP in the coming years. [[8.40]] By the end of the current EU budget cycle, i.e. 31 December 2020, more than HUF 1100 billion will be allocated to environmental and nature conservation investments in the sector. This amount will enable improvements in this area to be made to an unprecedented extent. In the field of environmental protection, the overall objectives of the period ahead are set out in the national environmental programme. We can provide the source of the development primarily through the co-financing of the European Union and the contribution of the Hungarian budget. Chapter 19 of the draft budget law includes co-financing of EU development projects. 15 percent of the available EU funds, some HUF 1118 billion, will be used for environmental and energy efficiency purposes, indicating the importance of the area. In the next 7 years, we planned some HUF 46 billion for nature conservation. This includes mainly habitat development and conservation interventions, the necessary management infrastructure, i.e. the acquisition of machinery and equipment, monitoring and the development of the nature conservation guard. We also place great emphasis on the presentation of natural values and the shaping of attitudes. In the field of waste management, the national waste management plan summarises the most important work to be done in the coming period. About 95 billion will be invested in the development of waste management in the period 2014-20. For remedial purposes, as mentioned by my fellow Member, HUF 22.7 billion is available over the next 7 years. The CCP will continue to carry out its public remedial tasks. In this context, it is possible to clean contaminated surface and groundwater, as well as contaminated geological medium, while complying with the polluter-pays principle. In the case of the budget chapter under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture, I would like to inform you that, in the draft 2016 Finance Act, the promotion of environmental protection will increase by HUF 268 million in the Ministry of Agriculture, and because it is a priority to preserve and improve the state of protected natural areas and values, national park directorates will receive HUF 700 million more funding in 2016 than in 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-09-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the Office Mafia. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The prosecution, investigation and prosecution of the MVH-based Mafia has closed, and 84 suspects have been prosecuted by the prosecution. I announced this at a press conference on 8 October 2013 that there is very, very serious organised crime in one of the Ministry's sub-schemes, namely the paying agency. Two days later, the main suspects were already in custody. This investigation was concluded, to which the then Secretary of State, Gyula Budai, said that this was a bagatell case, there was no harm in it. Well, compared to what was paid specifically, the M.O. is 117 191 767 HUF. Five companies managed to record this in 2012. That was the test, I'd like to signal. After that, this network started another attempt: it collected fictitious claimants for 20 624 hectares and applied for HUF 1 436 779 713 for a fictitious grant. This has been prevented by the criminal case launched a few days before the payment, as half of it - not this, to be exact - has been reduced in the meantime, as real claimants have finally appeared in this area - but it would have been about HUF 400-500 million that this company, these 37 individuals and 46 companies would have taken away from the actors in agriculture. Obviously, if this money hadn't been paid otherwise, it would have been paid in other legitimate areas. In this case, very serious, high-ranking people are also involved: Miklós Draykó, the vice president of the MVH at the time, is the number one defendant, and also, who later served as head of the agricultural chamber, Nándor Hörömpő and the second accused. The reason I don't tell the others is because the two are public figures, because they work in a high state office or public body, and they both have a very serious relationship with the government party; Nándor Hörömpő always refers to his very close relationship with the Secretary of State, Miklós Kis. The other interesting thing about this investigation is that the lower defendants have repeatedly mentioned that the reason why Mr Draykó had to repay a high commission was because he had to pay the president. This thread seems to have somehow failed in this investigation; Mr. Palkovics was not involved in the case. It was either because they couldn't prove it, or because they didn't want to. By the way, this is typical of the Hungarian investigative system, that, despite the fact that, for example, in a Borsod field case, the investigating authority found that it had committed a very large amount of fraud, not only forgery, but has made a complaint, and the D.A. decided to accept this complaint and, in an unprecedented manner, has not prosecuted it in this case. I would just like to say this and warn the authorities involved in the investigation that in 2018, the accomplice committed by the official does not expire, so there should be no doubt: after a change of government, these cases will be reopened, and all dirt cases will be reopened. I would also like this rotten potato case to be closed, which has been going on for two years, where obviously the then Ministry of Public Administration Secretary sold his own unsold, rotten seed to one of the companies assigned to it for a sum of HUF 1 billion. I really hope that that ends up the same way as this investigation. In addition, there are more cases - for some reason, apparently, the Ministry attracts criminals -; Szilárd Kiss is already locked up; and we also see what does not directly affect the Ministry, but is said to have certain records of state officials of very high rank. I am only saying this because it shows that there is always systemic corruption here, and this systematic corruption can only be caught by clear, transparent rules. At MVH, it looks like we've done this since then. It is true that it makes life very difficult for producers, because the eligibility check has become much stricter. This is exactly what we're going to do to ease something, because it's not the decent people here, it's the land leases, it's the bastards who take advantage of their political relationships and take away their legitimate remuneration from others. There will certainly be a change in this, I can say that firmly, but in the meantime, it would be good to get to the bottom of these matters. For example, the Hortobágy case is like this, where there is a similar mafia, only in the field contest. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, István Nagy, who will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-09-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Based on the weakness and weakness of the individual's character, a general conclusion is a flawed starting point. First of all, I would like to say that as a result of preventing the payment of undue claims, neither the European Union nor the Hungarian State has been harmed. The fact that the crime remained in the experimental field is certainly due to the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and the investigating authority. The Ministry had information on the case since mid-February 2013 and a careful investigation was initiated following their transfer to the competent authorities. At the beginning of October 2013, the investigation took place that the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office had ordered an investigation. It is suspected that MVH's former senior employee or accomplices have organised abuses by creating companies on behalf of which false applications were submitted for area payments. As the Ministry has already pointed out, he is on the wrong track, looking for political ties, because people were wrong, and as we know, these people are no longer part of the system. As a result of the investigation, two former MVH executive officials and 82 additional persons were charged by the Metropolitan Attorney General. In this connection, I would like to point out that, like the MVH, the Ministry is always cooperating and continues to cooperate with the investigating authority, the prosecutor's office and the court with a view to clarifying all the facts, since it is in our common interest to prevent the unauthorised acquisition of EU aid. In this context, the MVH shall use all available possibilities and means to prevent abuse, and shall make every effort to recover any amounts unduly used in the event of their occurrence. [[8.50]] I would very much like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to the fact that it is not possible to draw general conclusions from the fact that some people are deceived. It would be a big problem if the system were to operate in such a way that they would not be discovered. And since we managed to stop it in time, before any payment, and stop the bad intentions, I think we can't blame the system itself, because the system, the law that ensures the operation of the MVH, has created the right rules. The problem was with the people in the system, which, in turn, the system itself managed to land by the power of the law and successfully prevent the crime that they wanted to commit. I would like to point out that the MVH's audit practice varies from year to year from the fact that the experience of previous years will be integrated into the method of that year, so that the audit system will be kept under constant review. I think it is important to point out that domestic farmers who have a right to submit their aid applications have access to the aid. The Ministry will continue to take appropriate steps in all cases where there is suspicion of a criminal offence of public law. In view of the fact that the case has been prosecuted, I'd like to ask you to consult the Metropolitan Attorney General about the details. Finally, I would like to thank the Member for the question, because the Ministry is also waiting for the case to continue, and I very much hope that each thread will be properly tied up and closed, because for all those who do their work in that office every day, because there is no need to forget them. I very much hope that the investigation of the prosecutor's office will be able to clear up every single thread, and those who are working there now can do their job with honor and honor and serve the interests of Hungarian farmers, and will serve all the opportunities to provide area support to Hungarian farmers. It's an opportunity to live with, not to abuse. All those who wish to make use of this opportunity must be assured of our support, their work must be helped and all conditions must be provided to enable them to do this job without fail. And anyone who wishes to abuse it, I would like to say most definitely that he should be properly condemned and removed from the system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: the number of refugees will be over a hundred thousand this year. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-9	Mr. President. Dear House, When at the beginning of this year we started to talk about the problem, the magnitude of which has already clearly emerged before us, then very many people - especially the left of Hungary - said that we are emergency birds, we spread rumors, and we try to distract attention from what I do not know. It's been very clear today that we were right, and the problem is very big. If you look at the numbers, they speak for themselves: in 2012, only 2,500 illegal immigrants crossed the border, then the following year 18,000, then 42 500, and by the end of May this year we are over 50,000. These people are illegal offenders, immigrants, their refugee status is extremely questionable. Last year's data is once again talkative: out of 42 500 illegal offenders, 800 were eligible for political asylum, so the vast majority of them were not eligible for political asylum at all. The problem is that according to the current rules, the Hungarian authorities, if we do not change the laws, are powerless, even if they catch almost all the offenders, they immediately make a political asylum application. At that time, the Hungarian authority can do nothing but take them, help them or ensure their travel, at the cost of 4300 HUF/day, to a reception centre, which is open, and from then on we expect the asylum procedure to start. It is quite obvious that since the average day of stay is three, the cost of this year alone is HUF 1.5 billion, which the Hungarian taxpayers are paying. [[What about the sheep, Louis? There's 15,000 sheep in 45 degrees.]] Overall, if we look at the other costs, on the cost side - administration, border police, survey, procedural costs - this amount is expected to exceed HUF 4 billion overall. While we know that there is an even greater danger, because there are about 200,000 people who have applied for asylum in Hungary, this means that they have gone to European countries, but they will come back, they will be sent back and this procedure will have to be carried out here. It is clear that the pressure will not decrease, according to European authorities, there are 5 million people on the road to Europe at any moment, who will cross the border illegally. Today, Hungary is one of the most important countries, if we look at it in terms of population, then the second is the country where most refugees come in, if we look at GDP figures, the same thing. We are trying to draw attention to the danger involved. We are trying to find a legal solution and, of course, we also need to discuss this with the Hungarian electorate. However, it is very thoughtful that when we talk about consultation, we talk about the fact that people often have misconceptions about immigration - for example, a large part of people think that illegal immigrants cannot be stopped by Hungarian border guards; but they can only stop, because they need to be let go - when we draw attention to these problems and later dangers, otherwise, the champions of freedom of speech and democracy start a poster war and destroy the posters, tear down the posters to the greater glory of freedom of speech. [[Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] I would like to draw the attention of the Hungarian left to the fact that this is a Nazi wiener. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Whoa, Louis, watch out!]] They introduced violence in politics, they were the ones who tried to express their commitment to freedom of expression by tearing up posters and burning books. Freedom of speech for the Hungarian left - the Bajnai Party is at the forefront of this - only as long as their opinion can be expressed. They can't bear it when someone else has a different view of life. [[Dóra Dúró: You guys ripped off your posters!]] And it makes me wonder that the left is explaining to us the incitement that brought the campaign face of the most instigating Hungarian hating campaign into Parliament; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was the campaign face of the most hateful anti-Hungarian campaign at the time in the dual referendum campaign. And they talk about inciting. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would ask everyone to abide by the laws and debate with dignity on this very important issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government.
u2015-06-09-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for putting this very important issue to the public of Parliament. I would like to present the latest data [[Noise.]] And I would like to thank Mr András Schiffer and the other left-wing Members, if I could have your attention. The latest figures are as follows. Yesterday 457 illegal border crossings were caught, and according to the data of the year starting on 1 January, a total of 53 295 asylum seekers have arrived in Hungary. These asylum seekers entered the European Union in Greece, and those who come to Hungary through Serbia are not political refugees, because they are not from a country from which to flee. They need to understand the decision on whom Hungary will let in, this decision must be made by us Hungarians. Refugees arriving in Hungary, wherever they come from, first go to Greece, where they are no longer in danger of life, from there to Macedonia, where there is peace, then to Serbia. There is no political persecution in these countries. They come to Hungary from a country from which they do not qualify as refugees, from which they do not need to escape. [[9.00]] Dear Parliament, Those who arrive in Hungary are refugees who are immigrants of livelihoods. Everyone must protect their own borders, and Hungary must also solve the issue of economic immigrants arriving in Hungary. I would like to draw attention to the consequences of this, in addition to the fact that, once again, more than 53,000 asylum seekers have already arrived in Hungary. The EU rules, which have been proven to be not suitable for solving the refugee problem, need to be changed. To be given national competence [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the management of asylum. The responses to the national consultation and the replies to the questionnaires clearly state the need for people to ask for stronger action from the Hungarian authorities and to apply stricter rules. The current EU rules, the so-called Dublin procedure, received 15,000 requests from Member States this year to recover asylum seekers. So, on the one hand, there are 53,000 asylum seekers who are here in Hungary, they have entered, and there is a problem of taking back 15,000 asylum seekers under the Dublin procedure. This number, this 15,000 requests received so far, is a multiple of last year's and last year's, so this is a huge burden for Hungary. In response to a request from several Member States, it announced its intention to organise charter flights in view of the fact that the number of returnees to be returned exceeds the number of persons to be returned on commercial flights. Germany, Switzerland and Luxembourg have indicated these needs. I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Austria has decided last week to speed up the assessment of the case of refugees who have previously lodged asylum applications in other EU Member States. This was announced by the Austrian Minister of Interior and the Head of the Austrian Immigration Office at a joint press conference. This concerns two countries, Honourable Parliament, primarily Hungary and Bulgaria. The competent Austrian authorities also announced that, in their plans, when these applications were evaluated, which, I repeat, are carried out under an accelerated procedure, refugees who would not be entitled to return to the country, i.e. partly to Hungary, by asylum, buses or aircraft. Once again, in addition to Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg have indicated that they wish to send back large numbers of refugees under the Dublin procedure. So it's a problem that we haven't had to face with its weight this size. As regards the destruction of the posters: Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone, so the police are bringing proceedings against those who have committed an infringement. The left-wing parties, as the Member indicated, apply double standards: during the 2014 elections - in the parliamentary, municipal and European elections - they have been prosecuted 12 times for poster abuse, because his interests have been harmed, and now, when we express national interests on these posters, they are being damaged and violated. So what I can tell you is that the authorities [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] act against offenders. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, also applied for a pre-meeting speech on our responsibility for the world that has been entrusted to us. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-09-13	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to talk about a less emotional issue, which is not less serious; it is not the problem of the present, but of the future in the first place. This is an opportunity to recall the World Environment Day on 5 June and to warn about the future. The objective is clear: we must stop the process that can lead to environmental tragedy. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to use some data to show the severity of the situation. We lose two thirds of Hungary's production area each year. At the same time, a million people move to cities every week who cannot produce there. We are on the verge of a water crisis; since the early 900s, the population of the Earth has tripled, but our extraction is six times higher. Climate change is on the move. We emit 55 billion tonnes of CO2 per year, even though 40 billion would still be acceptable. The 13 hottest years of the last hundred years have been in the last 14 years. Who are the big carbon emitters? In particular, China and the United States. But let us say a few words about the situation in Hungary. And this is an issue that we can be proud of, because since the GDP grew by 31 percent, the energy used has decreased by 20 percent and CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent. So Hungary is in the right place, Hungary is the eleventh in terms of the climate performance of the first 70 countries. There has already been a liberal approach to environmental protection today, but whether this approach is liberal or Christian, we will not get away with not getting together on this issue in the interests of the future, because we need united action. Christian teaching approaches the question differently, but the outcome, I can say, is the same. We say that the Creator entrusted the created world to man, that we are responsible for it, and that responsibility feeds on this strong motive. The first step - I think this applies to everyone - we must recognize the beauty, wealth and order of this world, and if we recognize it, then the protection of this is simple and easy, and it may be more important to us than the need for production or consumption. I think that what Hungary has produced in this area, which seems small, but still is a good result, makes us want to bring this work together and keep the beauty, wealth and order of the created world not only in nature, but also in the world of man of our world, more beautiful and livable to our environment, our world. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2015-06-09-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-06-09-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, More than four decades ago, in 1972, in Stockholm, he convened a World Conference on the Environment called the United Nations "Human and Biosphere," on the proposal of which 5 June was declared World Environment Day. The most important objective of World Environment Day is to encourage cooperation, joint action for a clean, healthy environment and sustainable development. Therefore, the central theme of the event, its motto, is formulated every year in such a way as to be called upon, asked, touched. In 2009, for example, he warned: "Your Planet needs you! In 2012 he asked: "Green Economy: are you a part of it? And in 2014 he asked: "Align your voice, not the sea level! The motto of this year's world day makes me think again:. 7 billion dreams. A planet. Eat carefully. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is assumed that if we continue our current production and consumption habits by 2050 and the population reaches the expected 9.6 billion, we will need three such planets to maintain our way of life. The numbers are scary, but we believe that if everyone lives carefully, environmentally and future consciously, then our planet will provide enough resources to achieve all of us's dreams. [[9.10]] According to one of the basic ideas of World Environment Day, individual decisions and actions, which appear to be tiny individually, are not merely combined, but exponential, and thus can make a huge difference. We all know that a healthy environment determines not only our quality of life but also benefits from competitiveness. The improvement in environmental status, the wise use of natural resources and the modernisation of environmental regulation are conducive to the development of an eco-efficient, advanced economic structure. The main objective of the environmental policy and strategy of the Ministry of Environment is to ensure that the country's economic development, the conservation of natural resources and values are in favour of sustainable exploitation and that the right to a healthy environment as set out in the Fundamental Law is enforced. During the period 2009-2014, Hungary's environmental status has improved positively in terms of several environmental elements, factors and processes. Emissions of greenhouse gases and acidification have been reduced. Energy efficiency has improved and the use of renewable energy sources has increased. The overall transformation of waste management has managed to reduce the amount of waste generated annually by some 2.5 million tonnes. In addition, household water consumption per capita decreased by 10 percent and the proportion of apartments connected to the utility sewage collection network increased. As a result of the measures taken so far, air quality has improved and the pollution of small particulate matter has not exceeded the annual limit value for three years. The national air pollution measurement network was renewed with a total investment of HUF 2.5 billion in two development projects. By installing more than 300 new measuring and laboratory instruments and four new mobile measuring stations, we get a more accurate picture of Hungary's air pollution, which increases the effectiveness of measures to protect air quality and human health. The national environmental data collection system has been implemented and, at the same time, the state-of-the-art transformation of the publication of data and information relating to the environment, in line with the system of electronic administrative services. The renewed website provides information on the environmental status of our country to the public. In view of the recovery of solid fuels, a campaign has been launched to develop good heating practices and to raise awareness of health and environmental hazards arising from the use of low-quality solid fuels. Our wallet pays particular attention to the information and awareness-raising of the population. In line with government objectives, a number of air quality government websites were established in 2013-14. Harmonised with the message of World Environment Day, our aim is to ensure a comprehensive improvement in the quality of life, the sustainable use of our natural resources and the creation of a resource-efficient, resource-efficient green economy in both production and consumption. All three objectives are linked to improving the capacity to adapt to climate change and environmental safety. The horizontal objective is to strengthen the environmental awareness of society. The implementation of the measures underlying the implementation of environmental policy objectives will depend on the EU, international assistance, the annual budget and the country's capacity to deliver. My dear fellow Member, thank you very much for the memorial. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group, also submitted a speech before the agenda: a growing emigration, increasing poverty and a government success propaganda. This is the government's solution to the social crisis in Hungary. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that after several years of Fidesz governance, it is worth reviewing the main directions that have defined Hungarian economic policy and the life of Hungarian society over the past few years. When the Minister of National Economy of the Orbán Government, György Matolcsy, says that more than 500,000 people have left Hungary, emigrated from the country and are looking for prosperity as a guest worker in Western Europe, it is worth thinking about what led to this. First, it is worth looking at how much the Hungarian people are paying for their work and what trends are taking place. In April 2010, the Hungarian average wage amounted to EUR 525 and EUR 493 in the first quarter of 2015. The average Hungarian wage was therefore reduced in euros, and when the government campaigned to show growth in the weakening forints, it basically misleads people, since Hungary is the only country of all Visegrád countries where wages have fallen. What did Jobbik say? In view of the fact that almost two thirds of people in Hungary do not even earn the average wage, we need to strengthen production within the tax system, a production support tax system that focuses tax incentives on tourism that brings foreign income to industry, agriculture and Hungary, and contributes to strengthening the foundations of the economy so that a real welfare change can occur in Hungary. It is also important that the tax system is predictable and safe. A Jobbik government will do the most for the Hungarian economy by setting up a predictable, safe and competitive tax system, something that will not be changed weekly by government decision-makers. It is also interesting how high the tax burden on the Hungarian people's work is. Hungary is constantly in the first three countries with the highest tax burden in the world. Most of the money is taken here by the state from the Hungarian people, from the workers, or, as the government says, from the hardworking little people. It's the biggest one here. It is also interesting to see that when the Hungarian people receive their wages, half of which has already been taken away by the state in the form of taxes and contributions, I wonder how they will benefit. You can pay the world's highest VAT rate, 27%, and you can pay exotic taxes that you do not have to pay in other countries, such as the transaction fee, which is the invention of the Orbán government, and a number of taxes that you often do not know at all in other European countries. It is also interesting how unevenly incomes are distributed. If you look at the people who are fully employed, you can see that a quarter of the people's income is not even equal to the minimum of living. A man works, and he doesn't even earn a minimum living - it's obviously not a good life. The Jobbik responds by helping poor people in this critical economic time by introducing the 5% VAT rate on basic foods in order to ensure at least the minimum condition for the poorest people to survive this extremely difficult period. We also consider it very important - because Hungarian demographic processes are currently unsustainable, not half as many children are born as it should be for the country to be self-sustaining from the point of view of the population - that it is necessary to strengthen the VAT on products for child rearing to 5 percent that families should dare to have children, to even think about life in Hungary, to plan their future here. In the area of housing construction, very important steps must also be taken. While some years ago around 44 thousand apartments were built in Hungary, thanks to the joint work of the Orbán government and the socialists, 1572 apartments were built in the first quarter of 2015. Shame on you, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a result, it's a failure. Jobbik wants to boost construction and keep young people at home. Now the government generously distributes interest subsidies to foreign companies in the form of various growth credit schemes, but Hungarian young people should also have such loans, because we need to make sure that there is a roof over people's heads at home. Unfortunately, the government failed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government.
u2015-06-09-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If Congressman Volner were not an opposition representative in Parliament, but, let's say, in the Polish Parliament, in the Seymour, or in Bucharest in the Romanian Parliament, perhaps in another Central European country, he would certainly say, as opposition representatives, let's say in the Polish Parliament, that the Polish Government has failed, because only five people are emigration from the Hungarians, as from Poland. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I wouldn't understand if you said it like that.]] In Bucharest or Poland, you could say that the Hungarian emigration rate is a fraction of the Romanian and Polish population, since in Romania 10 percent, in Poland 6 percent, and in Poland 2 percent, the number of people who went abroad and work there is around 2 percent. [[9.20]] We trust that after they gain experience there - while they are there and they really send home their money to the home country in the order of a thousand billion euros [[Dóra Dúró: They don't see their children growing up!]] - and then they'll come home, and they'll start a family here later. There are many reasons why someone is going abroad. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Last we heard this was from Gyurcsány!]] One of them could have been a difficult financial situation caused by the problem of foreign exchange lending, but we tried to settle these situations precisely by issuing foreign currency loans, forinting, end-payment and clearing banks. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We heard such cynicism from Gyurcsány!]] And now there's a much smaller repayment than the one that might have caused someone to go abroad to work to hide from creditors or earn money there to pay them. So in this area we have succeeded, I think, in preventing or stopping the decline, one of the causes of emigration, we have certainly succeeded in achieving this. As you know, you can see, when you look at the statistics, the emigration intention in Hungary started to increase before accession to the European Union, obviously increased between 2010 and 2012, and since then the proportion of people who would go out would be reduced; this is most visible in the case of doctors and nurses. The doctors had a peak in 2011, and the government managed to halt growth and reverse the trend from 2011 to 2012. [[Dóra Dúró: The trend has changed, they're coming back!]] At the summit, 1200 doctors asked for permission to continue their work abroad. These figures and facts: they decreased from 1200 to 1108 in 2012 - be happy with us together - and by 2013, they continued to decline to 955, then in 2014 to 948, so from 1200 to 950, the number of doctors who have applied for an operating permit for emigration abroad has decreased in recent years. As in the case of nurses, one year later, in 2013, in the year of the economic revolution, the trend was reversed: while the peak there was 536, although it was already high enough in 2009, 419 people asked for permission to work and work abroad, this 536 was only 493 in 2014, so there was a decrease in the rate of growth of foreign employment. We hope that this was the case in many other areas. What you said as an example of living in Hungary: in the last five years, we have increased the minimum wage by 43 percent - from HUF 73,500 to HUF 105,500 - precisely to make living easier for the smallest earners, and in addition, if we add the benefits of the reduction in wages, then precisely the people who come out of the lowest amount of money have been one of the best in the past period, since their share of their expenses has been reduced, while the government has raised the wages of the small earners best. If we add the family tax reduction to all of this, which leaves an average of HUF 20,000 per month for each family, then overall we see that the government has supported the families in the last five years with HUF 790 billion in extra support without withdrawing this income from them. I do not know if you can say another country within the European Union where unemployment is falling despite critical years [[Dr. András Schiffer: Poland.]] From 11 per cent to around 7 per cent, we reduce taxes, since this 800 billion HUF remained with the families. There is no other country that could have given its citizens such tax relief in the years of the crisis; elsewhere, it was more about increasing taxes. It is enough to say that while five years ago the highest tax rate was 32 percent, next year the only tax rate will be reduced from 16 per cent to 15 per cent. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's good for you!]] But those with families may have a zero-percent tax that they have to pay. If you look at how the performance of the economy and the development of actions have evolved: real earnings in Hungary have increased twice as much as GDP. With what the economy could grow, we were able to give people twice as much through state redistribution, through economic promotion in raising wages. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And we have done all this by reducing public debt. Let me tell you one more thing: in the case of youth unemployment, this has been reduced from 28 percent to 19 percent, so that this is now 21 percent in the EU. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-20	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the non-compliance procedure under Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and on certain amendments to the law on the subject of judicial matters, together with the final amendment proposal, follow up. The submission is T/4648. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Justice as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4648/9. and T/4648/10. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4648/12. and the summary report is T/4648/13. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate, with a total duration of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the house rules on 5 June 46. According to §2 T/4648. The draft law on the non-compliance procedure and certain amendments to the law on the subject of justice, as referred to in Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, was submitted by the Committee with 20 amendments and a summary report summing up 20 votes in favour, 1 votes against and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes most of the proposals of the Judicial Committee and the separate proposal of the Legislative Committee, which partly corrects the proposals of the Committee on Justice. Among the proposed amendments, I would like to highlight which is CLXXVII of 2013 on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Complements the Act with a transitional rule in respect of recovery costs. The provision is interpreted by the Ptk. the cost of recovery for the flat rate Book Six, 155. § 2 of the Rules. The reason for this is that, although it wishes to play its role as a poor sui generis legal institution, it provides the creditor with a flat-rate reimbursement of the costs of all measures relating to the enforcement of the claim due to the non-compliance with the deadline. According to the function of the recovery allowance, it is intended to compensate for one of the elements of the damage, namely the costs incurred in the enforcement of the claim, and therefore, in terms of purpose, it is more liable for damages caused by breach of contract than linked to the obligation to pay interest on account of late delivery. This feature is basically in favour of the fact that, as the amendment to this proposal makes clear, the Ptk is not responsible for the liability of the institution of liability. Book Six, 142. There is room for rescue under §8 of the Act. This is also indicated by the fact that the Ptk. By way of derogation from the obligation to pay interest on late payment, it does not state that the obligation to pay it is fulfilled even if it saves the debtor or the contracting authority's late payment, i.e. it imposes a non-obstructive penalty on the legal institution other than the payment of the interest on late payment. I trust with this clarification, we will make everyday life easier for both lawyers, counsellors, accountants, auditors and companies. I would like to highlight the section on notaries in the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee. [[9.30]] The proposal is the 1991 XLI on notaries. amends certain provisions of the law which are affected by the bill. On the one hand, it proposes to abandon the specific rules of competence for the procedures covered by the notary law and, on the other hand, to maintain the existing provisions on the moratorium on the transfer of notaries. Another important change is that the proposal is a new 22nd Amendment Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of the Civil Code. In addition, the Commission notes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. By bringing an action by the prosecutor, it is possible that the apparent lack of value of assets covering claims, the transfer of the assets for free or for the benefit of a relative within a period of one year prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings or the imposition of rights in remorse reducing their value should not prevent the assets placed under the closure from satisfying the legitimate needs of the actual victim. Finally, as an ex-practical lawyer, I would like to welcome the motion to remove certain bureaucratic obligations for lawyers, and I am referring primarily to the abolition of the rules on the deposit of lawyers' accounts to the Chamber of Appeal. On this basis, I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-09-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented in a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to my fellow Member, Imre Vas, but I have the feeling that I think that the Member has exchanged the two papers and read the wrong version of the committee's opinion, because what you have said may be your opinion, the opinion of your group on the amendments before us, but that what you have said about this has not happened at the committee meeting, that is for sure. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Not exactly.]] He probably switched the two papers, and he was supposed to tell you that in the 17-minute window, Congressman, because I'm going to say it again, there wasn't a word about it at the committee meeting, that's for sure. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment that highlights the two-thirds provisions of the bill, quite rightly. That is what the opposition representatives said, because, as we stressed in the general debate, we expressed at the committee meeting that it is not possible to create a two-thirds law after the voters have withdrawn two-thirds of your trust that they do not consult with the opposition representatives. You can't submit two-thirds laws to try and shove it down the Parliament's throat just as much as you did for four years. The result will be that opposition factions will not support it. It was also said at the committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen, that we - and I think this is true of all opposition parties - do not vote for Dafke in this proposal either, but because we have a number of critical comments on the two-thirds provisions, and we have said this in the general debate. That is, we are partners in supporting any proposal that is indeed in the interests of justice, but we are not partners in supporting legislation that is otherwise of government interest and contrary to the interests of justice, as we see it. The other thing that came up not only in the general debate, but also at the Legislative Committee's meeting is that it would be good for the government not to initiate negotiations after it has already submitted the bill, but before it. Because I think it is right for us to accept something as a joint proposal, not only to include the provisions in this bill, but also to open those paragraphs in the case of individual laws that you think are important, but also those that we think are important. For example, with regard to the courts, we would consider it key, and this was also said at the Legislative Committee and in plenary by several factions, in order to remove the power of the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia to declare applications invalid. If, for example, this had been incorporated into the proposal, we would obviously be more open to the two-thirds provisions that you have tabled. At the Committee on Legislative Affairs, that was pretty much it, so I do not wish to make the mistake of the Member before me and to speak about what I think about it, so I will leave it to the Group to speak. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-09-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State L. Simon László, as rapporteur, indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, As no rapporteur has been drawn up by the designated Judicial Committee, the speeches shall follow within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, will now take the floor.
u2015-06-09-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would now like to continue to impose on the faction time frame the thoughts that I would like to say. I do not wish to repeat what I said in the general debate on the amendments before us, but I would like to refer back to the general debate: Mr Secretary of State, then I do not know, and I would also like to know why the person of the rapporteur has changed, if I see it right, and I perceive it well, that the Prime Minister's Office is now representing this proposal and not the Ministry of Justice, obviously for some reason. Then Mr Secretary of State will explain why the proposals on the subject of justice are represented by the Prime Minister's Office. So, then Secretary of State Répássy disproved a number of things by yelling at him and, by the way, in other ways, what I said. I looked into what Mr. Secretary said until the last point, and I have to say that he was wrong about either of them. It was not right that the bill did not include the fact that it was a caselaw for a judicial appointment to be fixed for a later period of time if the judge did not serve that period in court, but as a judge assigned to the Ministry of Justice. I don't think that's right. Since the Secretary of State then denied it, I would like to emphasise again and stress that this is not right. The caselaw is required of a judge in order to be visible before he is appointed for an indefinite period of time whether he is suitable for the case-law or not. It requires a different whitish, a different knowledge, a different attitude, for example, a codificatorial work that is just as honorable as judicial work and a different judicial judgmental activity. It will never be known whether a judge is fit to be appointed indefinitely without having participated in any judicial work before him, so he did not do so himself, except as a secretary or author. The situation is similar in the case of secretaries. That's where the Secretary of State denied that what I said was true. I read the law, and what I said was true. In the case of secretaries, the ordering system works in a similar way, and I don't think that's the right thing to do at all. In order not to repeat what I said in the general debate, I agree, because if you look at the judicial career, Hungary has the lowest wages for judges or one of the lowest among the Member States of the European Union. [[9.40]] The same is true of court writers and court secretaries. Normal wage increases were last seen during socialist governments. Now they want to raise the income of court secretaries at the very least, which is what we consider to be the right thing to do, and we have therefore asked for a separate vote on the proposal to make it simpler and we will vote in favour of this amendment. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing, Mr. Secretary. It is not right to be a court secretary whose salary will be equal to a starting judge's salary. I think it's as absurd as what happens in the administration, of course, to say that the minister in the ranking of payments is the seventh in a ministry, and he doesn't make the most of it. I don't think that's good. It is equally wrong that an appointed judge who is in a higher position than a secretary in this regard, since he can become a judge from a secretary, will earn as much as a secretary. In other words, I am not objecting to the secretary making more money, but calling attention to the fact that I hope that this will also lead to an increase in the appeal of the judges, because this will cause tension within the system. And since I wasn't authorized by the court leader who brought this to my attention, I'm not going to say his name here in Parliament, obviously. By the way, you refer to it by name a lot, so you can't accuse him of being left-wing, but one thing is certain, he has indicated that this is likely to cause serious tensions in the system. I would therefore like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that it would be good to take this aspect into account and to shape the salary of the judges, that at least, if you will, out of prestige, a little higher than the salary of the secretaries. Again, it makes me wonder whether it is right for a person who wants to be a judge and wants to become a judge to be employed as a secretary for 5-6-7-8 years - I don't know about 8 but from 6-7 years. In the past, the secretary's position was good for not becoming a writer at the same time as a judge, but as a court secretary, with a slightly increased power compared to the author, and when he and others see how they do this work, they can then be appointed a judge. But it certainly was not the case that within the courts, a civil servant, who is not a judge, but a court employee, does not have the independence of the judge, does not do the work, but if this system stays that way, I think there will be someone who will do secretarial work for a decade. I don't think that's right. If you believe that the administration of cases is justified in this way, I will say it many times here in Parliament, the solution would be not to refer certain minor criminal or civil cases to the court, but to treat them nicely within the administrative institutional system, and the people who are now employed as secretaries would clearly be part of the administrative system, which would be brought to court, essentially by the judges, and the number of judges in the courts would be significantly higher than those of the secretaries. I say it in a percentage of terms, of course, because, in absolute terms, judges are, by definition, much more than court secretaries. In other words, I think that there is a systemic problem here, and if these two categories are washed together now in payment, that is a problem. Once again, we are voting for this because we see and know that the salaries of the people working in justice are far behind the EU average. For these reasons, we will usually not be able to support the law. We welcome the fact that the government has taken out the two-thirds provisions. We would be pleased if the government, learning from this and from other such cases, would at least try to obtain the consent of opposition parties at a later stage before submitting a bill of this kind. Once again, we will always support and support the government's motion to improve justice and try to achieve it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Csaba Gyüre, Mr Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-06-09-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! There is a bill before us, which, if we were to decide on the bill itself, I think that every faction in this Parliament would vote in favour. After all, as we have already discussed in the general debate, we are talking about issues which are particularly timely in Hungary, the regulation of the unity of succession law in the territory of the European Union, or the legal institutions that do not exist in Hungary, but whether a Hungarian citizen who lives abroad or lives in Hungary, and inherits such an institution of property law, which does not exist in Hungary, is possible in the course of the matching procedure, to register it in Hungary either in the real estate register or in another way. Both this and the issue of an inheritance certificate are legal institutions that I think we all agree with. State Secretary Répássy said in the general debate that they did not think that this was the bill of this independent law, but a judicial package, which included other things. This is also the problem in the present case, on which all opposition groups have expressed their views in the general debate, and have also taken a position that no opposition party will support any part of the vote requiring a two-thirds majority. So obviously, the exception, which Mr Bárándy also spoke about, that they took the two-thirds part, is clearly the reason that all parliamentary opposition groups have taken a position that they will not support it. Especially because in itself we did not agree that there was no real consultation. Obviously, the two-thirds governing party had five years of practice, while it was two-thirds, it had the practice to easily carry everything through, it didn't need to obtain any support from the opposition. Obviously, this exercise is still alive. Therefore, there was no real reconciliation effort in this case that would have sought the support of opposition parties. Obviously, we have all said our position that we will not support this. That is why I think it is an exception not to have a vote in which the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz-KDNP will not be able to take place again. We regret that our amendments did not go through, because we have all tabled amendments and have not, or rather, gone through them in the committee procedures, because in this case it would have been possible to vote in favour. Here, all of the opposition groups have made exactly the same objections to the law, and I think, and we have all stated that if they are amended, excepted, then we will vote for them, but they have not completely happened, although the two-thirds is fortunately excluded. What is an important part of this, so obviously we didn't understand or agree with the fact that the court secretaries were brought into the Ministry of Justice, was brought into the OBH. This is not the problem, but the problem was what appeared there as the underlying rule that they would benefit from the appointment of a judge, which is a shocking thing, since they do not carry out the task that they will do as judges and why they should have any advantage in the appointment. Obviously, such a regulation also raises the possibility that there would be some kind of cadaver training, since, in the case of judges assigned to the Ministry of Justice, the employer's authority is the Minister of Justice, he can give specific instructions and tasks; obviously, in many years, there will be a practice in which he will have to comply with the instructions of the Minister of Justice and not get used to judicial independence; he will not get used to having no instructions to carry out his duties, except to interfere with his administrative activities. So that's very negative, especially if we're gonna fill it up with these, if we do such a cadre training in the Ministry of Justice, and we're gonna fill it with them. That's definitely not good. The other thing is that we have also tabled an amendment to the remuneration and salary of court secretaries. I understand that the OBH originally wanted 30 percent wage development, but here there is a 10 percent in court secretaries. [[9.50]] We consider this to be little, and that is why we have tabled a kind of amendment in this regard that would find the middle road somewhere between 30 percent and 10 percent. In half, we proposed 20 percent, which also did not go through the amendment. They did not accept that it would be 20 percent, which we would consider to be relevant because, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, judicial salaries in Hungary are not below the EU average, but below the bottom of the frog. We also had a debate with Mr Répássy, State Secretary, who said that we should not look at how much judges make in the European Union, let us not look at Hungary as the last place to pay judges in the European Union. Even in Bulgaria, Romania, judicial wages are higher than in Hungary, higher in all EU countries. In the budgetary debate, I also said that we are proposing a 30% wage improvement in the judicial sphere, both in the salaries of judges and prosecutors. Even if the 30 percent is achieved, the salary of Hungarian judges and prosecutors will be on the top-of-the-last ranking of the European Union; therefore, it is down to an immense extent. State Secretary Répássy said on this point, I understood that there is no intention in the future to settle these wages. He said that we should compare it with the nurses, compare it with those in other sectors, and that the salaries of the judges are higher, so we are not counting the salaries on the EU scale. With regard to the remuneration of judges, I draw attention to the fact that the court is the third branch of power. So, somewhere in a separate chapter, they should decide on their salaries, somewhere to assign the wages of the actors of the legislators, executives and judges, which would not depend on how the Parliament determines them for its own convenience, they should automatically move together. It is not for nurses, nor for teachers, that the salaries of those working in the judicial sector should be compared, but for those working in the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, the ministers of state, because we are talking about the three separate powers, and this is what we need to measure. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with this otherwise, so we have maintained our proposal, and we have also asked for the greater amount in relation to the remuneration of authors and secretaries. Therefore, because the proposal for a professional law was not presented or adopted in itself, we will not be able to support the bill, but will abstain. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-09-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a statement on a normal time frame. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-09-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the general debate, Minister of State Répássy has argued very carefully in several rounds why there is a need for provisions of two-thirds which are now lacking in the final text of the law. At the time, the Secretary of State said that the functioning of the judiciary was simply at stake, so if the opposition does not support these proposals, then the opposition is responsible for the failure of the judiciary to function. In the general debate for the government, and later for the National Court of Justice, the LMP also stated what the conditions - and these are not inexorable conditions - were that we could support the two-thirds of them. We said that if there is a time and number limit on how many secretaries are assigned to the National Court Office or to the judicial wallet within a given period, or how many of the secretaries who have previously spent their time at the judicial wallet or at the National Court Office, in Hungarian, cannot live with this instrument unbiasedly, then we are partners in voting for the two-thirds provisions. Compared to the fact that the conciliation was initiated here in plenary, we also initiated it through the National Court of Justice Office, there was no consultation at all. Instead, the same government, which tried very effectively to argue a few weeks ago, why, in order to be able to function, we need to increase the number of secretaries that could be assigned to the Ministry of Justice and the National Court Office, simply removed these provisions from the text of the law. We have lived with the suspicion lawsuit in the general debate, all three opposition groups, that if it is possible to assign secretaries to the Ministry without barriers, or to the National Court Office, or if they can even be placed on a pulpit, then this institution can practically easily be the judicial uprising of Fidesz. We have said that we are, of course, prepared to discuss professional reasons. However, this consultation did not take place. From now on, it is highly doubtful whether the government's intentions were actually fair. I would also like to say that we have also objected to the abandoned provisions that, to put it mildly, it is a reverse if, before a judicial appointment, the secretary's work is also based on a ministerial evaluation. It is not compatible with the judiciary that the assessment of a minister, a politician, is on the table as a condition for becoming a judge. In addition, there will be an extra score for those who spend their practical time at the Ministry and the OBH. We have listened to the arguments on the part of the government and, according to the Minister of State's assessment, that the judicial profession is too extensive, so we suggested that there should be a time limit on the number of secretaries who have spent their practical time in the administration and how many secretaries can be assigned to the ministry at the same time. We have not received any answers to these suggestions. From now on, I would stress once again, at least doubt what the government's original intentions were, because if the functioning of the justice system was so important to the government, it is obvious that it would have initiated a five-party consultation. What I would like to say about salaries is that we should not focus solely on the remuneration of judges here. We have also said in the debate on other laws that there is currently 30 percent employee poverty in the public sector in Hungary. With regard to the Service Act, we also mentioned that in the field of law enforcement, too, there are shocking numbers of non-professionals living below the poverty line, as is the case with law enforcement employees. Just as law enforcement or education, justice is also inoperable without auxiliary personnel, judicial staff. We therefore continue to demand from the government that judicial staff also receive a wage arrangement that allows them to get out of the poverty line, so that there should be a decent career for non-legal employees assisting in the functioning of the justice system. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2015-06-09-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. L. Simon László, Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[L. Simon László: Yes.]] Yeah. The Secretary of State has a timeframe of ten minutes.
u2015-06-09-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for being so active in the final debate and for giving me substantial contributions from my fellow Members. So today, this House has concluded the negotiation of this bill, with which we have tried to achieve the objective of ensuring the smooth application of the rules of the European Succession Law Regulation, which regulates the fundamental issues of succession relations at EU level in international private and procedural law, to the Hungarian legal system. The bill also renews notary procedures in a forward-looking way, broadens electronic procedures and introduces further amendments to certain laws on judicial matters. As we have heard from my fellow Members, unlike the originally planned proposal, the two-thirds part of the bill has been omitted, so in today's debate, the main focus had to be on what was left in the text of the bill. I must inform my fellow Member, Barándy, that this is not just a proposal for a bill on the subject of justice, but for the transposition of a rule in the framework of the EU's harmonisation procedure, and it is therefore absolutely natural for me to respond within the Government on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office for European Union Affairs, to close the debate and to share the task with each other in this way with the judicial wallet; and, of course, the preparation was done jointly. I think that we have been able to conclude this issue clearly. [[10.00]] The European Succession Law Regulation, which is a milestone in its significance at EU level, brings radical changes to all Hungarian law practitioners who encounter an international issue of succession. If I understand Csaba Gyüre correctly, you have no problem with this part, and I have understood that, in fact, the transposition, simplification of these rules, the harmonization of the succession order and the notary procedure of the European Union is acceptable to you. As you said, you can support this in any way. The Regulation, i.e. the original EU regulation, eliminates a significant part of the difficulties to date in enforcing foreign estate rights. In the case of successions after 17 August 2015, it will be sufficient to carry out the succession procedure in a single Member State and to obtain an estate in all Member States, in the possession of a decision or other document resulting from the procedure, without carrying out another succession procedure. This will also make it significantly easier to enforce the rights of European citizens, including Hungarian citizens, in relation to succession. The new regulation, created by the regulation and in accordance with the relevant auxiliary provisions of the bill, in a plastic way in the Hungarian legal system, will result in faster and more cost-effective handling of legacy cases for European citizens. The bill therefore takes a further step towards making electronic communications as wide as possible when, as of 1 July 2015, it enables electronic contacts in the civil order system, both with the legal representative and with the parties acting without a legal representative, and now at all stages of the civil suit. As from 1 January 2016, electronic communications, including the contact of courts with each other and with public authorities and other authorities, will be required. The adoption of the bill will regulate notary activities which constitute a significant part of the notary tasks as a civil non-court procedure, thus making a significant contribution to the reform of the notary law. Among these procedures is the paper-making procedure, which, under the bill, starts on request next year, in order to strengthen the administrative nature of the procedure towards customers and to enable it to prove the procedural relationship between the notary and the client, i.e. public law, legal relationship, when and with what content. The rules on the transformation of the notary office will also be renewed, allowing the notary to continue to engage in business within a limited company using the existing office infrastructure if the notary's service is terminated by reaching or exempting the retirement age. As regards the law on the service relationship of judicial staff, the bill contains a number of minor amendments that facilitate the employment and organisation of work of judicial staff. In addition, one of the most important innovations is the introduction of a 10-percent job bonus from 1 July 2015 for judicial staff in the field of careers by judicial authors and court secretaries, in parallel with the introduction of a 10-percent job bonus for prosecutors and prosecutors. I do not dispute that everything that my fellow Member Bárándy has raised in this regard is not important and should not be settled later. But in our view, not within the framework of this law, as in other areas of the public sector, career models attempt to organise wages. In part, I am also responding to my fellow Member Schiffer, which is, of course, a legitimate point here, in this case too. Of course, my fellow Member, Barándy and my fellow Member Schiffer, too, spoke beyond the scope of the current law to the problem. My fellow Member Bárándy was an example of the salary of ministerial leaders, and it is also possible in the current system that the highest salary is not paid by the minister within a ministry. I think it's a bigger problem to look for multiples of the leaders of background institutions, state-owned companies than the Secretary of State or Minister who oversees their work. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes. That's right. I agree.]] While, by the way, control and transparency are much less than that of a minister, in the case of a politician both in terms of the declaration of assets and in terms of national security transparency and others. This is a matter that needs to be resolved later, although you know that this is a politically slippery area, because the public is extremely sensitive about the pay of politicians. At the same time, my fellow Member Schiffer's point of view was also related to this issue, namely the wage-setting of non-government persons in the public sector. Once again, I think this does not belong closely to the bill, although, from this problem, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, that in some cases, the salary of a court secretary may be the same as that of a newly appointed colleague or a few years ago working as a judge, but what my fellow Member Schiffer spoke about is a wider problem, not to be solved within the framework of this legislation. In the course of the debate, it turned out that my fellow Members had raised objections to the objectives pursued by the bill, in particular the question of harmonisation, as my fellow Member, Mr Gyure, said, with the exception of one or two exceptions, and the two-thirds of them. I also felt some internal contradiction here, as my fellow Member Schiffer said that there was no consultation at all, my fellow Member Bárándy said that there was consultation, even after the submission of the law. However, I must strongly deny, Mr Schiffer, that the Government's intentions would not have been fair. Both the transposition of the EU regulation and the reform of the judicial system and the improvement of operational capacity, the government's intentions were clearly fair. The amendments you have tabled are conceptually concerned with a number of fundamental provisions, including a minor amendment and clarification of the text of the law. With regard to the law on the status and remuneration of judges, the originally submitted bill would have amended several fundamental provisions at the initiative of the President of the National Court of Justice. This is when my fellow Member Schiffer referred me back to the debate with the Secretary of State, Mr Répássy. In particular, Secretary of State Répássy said that this was about the functioning of the judiciary, and this was basically not the government's initiative, as I said, but the President of the National Court of Justice. So from this point of view, I think that the suggestion of Mr Répássy and my fellow secretary of state was justified, and that, here, the opposition has some responsibility to support the initiative of the President of the Office and to support the fundamental provisions. In any case, as we have seen from today's debate, the necessary consensus has not always been reached. In view of this, as a result of the amendments, the legislation currently contains only the criteria to be taken into account in the selection of judges, as well as the clarification provisions on when a new tender should be issued for reasons of invalidity. A number of provisions are added to the Commission's proposal for an amended legislation to facilitate its application. The most important of these may be the Ptk. rules amending the law laying down transitional provisions. These allow, on the one hand, the prosecutor's right to bring an action in certain cases and, on the other hand, the rule of the application of the recovery rate provided for in the Ptk Directive to the late debtor between certain Contracting Parties. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Dezső Incredible.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for taking part in this debate, and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-09-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will be taken in the course of today's decisions. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr Tamás Harangozó asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-06-09-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask in the vote if it is possible - our request is of a technical nature, because the vote will start immediately after the break - if the lead president could read the parts of the scenario as it is there, so in the proposals for amendment he would also say the names of the representatives who submitted it, it would make the work of the factions very easy. The last time these things didn't go down, and if only the number is given, it will make it untraceable for us after a while; we may be weaker. We would therefore like to ask the chairman to be kind enough to read the names in the script, so that everyone can better identify whose proposal we are voting for. [[10.10]] Especially such a long and rather... [[Forebod Novak: We don't vote on that!]] So in a long and rather difficult timetable, where there will be a lot of two-thirds laws and there may be different scenarios, that is all we would ask with great respect. Thank you.
u2015-06-09-34	Thank you, Congressman. I will take care of this case, so the script will be prepared during the break. Thank you. Dear Parliament, After yesterday's House Committee meeting, following the announcement by Vice-President Sándor Lezsák at the meeting, I must inform the Honourable Parliament that Parliament's Act 49. § 4 [[First Novak reporting.]] (Elect Novak reporting. ) Mr. President Novak's ban was limited to yesterday. So today, the Member can already exercise his activities and speak. [[For signal:]] On a point of order, Mr President Novak asked for the floor. I'll give you the floor if it's a matter of order. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Within the framework of house rules, I would like to make two points of order in one minute. The interrogation is a parliamentary genre, said Péter Harrach, former KDNP Vice-President of Parliament, on the first day of our meeting at the National Assembly, and we are used to living with this genre - not as an obstruction. Yesterday, on the record, before László Kövér warned me and threatened to lead me out, I did a single shouting during the speech of Secretary of State Bence Retvári. I would therefore like to thank Mr President for clarifying yesterday's resolution. Indeed, on the recommendation of the Speaker of the House, the pro-government representatives voted in violation of the law to ban me for two weeks from the entire sitting. There is no such possibility under the Rules...
u2015-06-09-36	Congressman!
u2015-06-09-37	... therefore, my point of order is that if the legislation works so easily and flexibly, then you may as well announce in a sharp manner that the two-thirds vote in today's excitement is, therefore, up to yesterday...
u2015-06-09-38	Congressman, excuse me. Congressman, yesterday, the House Committee was in charge of your case, and Vice President Lezsak was in charge of the trial. Your faction was present at the board meeting. Allow me not to judge your speech, for I myself have not personally attended the House Committee meeting. From this point forward, after the meeting of the House Committee, as set out in the minutes, your faction, if you want to move forward, has all the legal possibilities. Please accept from me that I cannot see this speech as a point of order. [[I'd like to do it now, one more sentence!]] Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm not at liberty to speak. [[Mr. President, I have three seconds left.]] Congressman, I am not in a position to speak, because this is not a matter of order. [[Foreman Novak: I'd like to make a point of order now. There's still...]] I consider the case closed. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda from 11 a.m. today, so I will order a trial break until 11 a.m. I would ask the factions to grant a quorum to take decisions. Thank you very much. [[Break: 10.13 11.03President: Dr. János Latorcai Recorders: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr]]
u2015-06-09-39	I warmly welcome my fellow Members and announce that we would like to continue the meeting. [[It's a lot of noise.]] I'm asking all of you to take your seats, check that your cards have been placed in the voting machine, and try to keep an eye on me. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill on the publication of the Administrative and Technical Implementation Agreement and, in this context, the amendment of certain laws concluded under the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria to facilitate the cross-border implementation of the consequences of road safety traffic offences. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4823. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 195 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will now follow. The submission was made in T/4477. was given to them. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is the T/4477/15 submitted by the national Parliament. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the grant of prior consent T/4477/16. Number 2 is available to all of them on the network. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4477/15. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes in favour, 40 against and 27 abstentions. The decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016 will now follow. The submission is T/4884. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4884/17. and a summary report by T/4884/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 9 of the LMP Group, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendment No 4, 11 and 12, and the Jobbik Group proposed that amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 4, Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members and Bertalan Tóth and Sándor Burány put forward proposals with the same content in Amendment 10. They are set out in point 1 of the Commission report. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on this with a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 67 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. In Amendment 9, we decide on the proposal by Bernadett Wind. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 12. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 131 against and 25 abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 12, as proposed by Bertalan Tóth and Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 130 against and 24 abstentions. I am now voting on Amendment 11 as proposed by Bertalan Tóth and Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. I am now putting Amendment 3 to the vote, as proposed by Gábor Staudt and the predecessor Novák. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 135 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.10]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4884/17. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 63 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4884/22. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 68 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows now that the decision on the non-compliance procedure pursuant to Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and the final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on certain legislative amendments on the subject of judicial matters are taken. The submission is T/4648. is available to all on the IT network. T/4648/12 and T/4648/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 2, the MSZP Group No 4 and Jobbik Group Nos 6, 7 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 2, András Schiffer put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. In Amendment 4, we decide on the proposal of Mr Gergely Bárándy and Mr Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 135 against and four abstentions. Amendment 7 also contains the motion of Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 136 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 8 is also proposed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 135 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4648/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 38 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has just adopted the summary amendment, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned, and therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4648/17. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes to 38, with 24 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. The submission was made in T/4393. Available to all of them on the IT network. T/4393/9, and T/4393/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to Section 4 of the MSZP Group, amendments 2 and 3 were proposed to be maintained. So, first of all, these are what we are voting on. In Amendment 2, József Tobias and his fellow Members put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 131 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 3 also contains the motion of József Tobias and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 131 against and 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 2 of the T/4393/9. In points 43, 46, 59, 67, 97 and 98 of the proposed package of amendments tabled by the legislator as a coherent intention to leave the provisions requiring a qualified majority, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, a separate vote was initiated by the Government, the Fidesz and the KDNP groups. The Government initiated a separate vote on the proposed amendment in point 44. First, we will decide on these, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. [[11.20]] T/4393/9. In points 43, 46, 59, 67, 97 and 98 of the proposed package of amendments tabled by the legislator as a coherent intention to leave the provisions requiring a qualified majority, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, a separate vote was initiated by the Government, the Fidesz and the KDNP groups. The Government initiated a separate vote on the proposed amendment in point 44. First, we will decide on these, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal.(11.20)In point 44 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee is the bill 119. § 1 proposes a technical amendment to its paragraph 1. The adoption of this will exclude a series of coherent proposals starting with point 43. At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this point requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 44 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment by 131 votes to 15, with 51 abstentions. In a series of proposals starting with point 43 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall initiate the withdrawal of the provisions requiring a qualified majority and the essentiality clause and, in this context, the amendment of the entry into force provision. At the request of the Government, Fidesz and KDNP, we will decide separately. I ask the honourable Parliament whether it accepts the line of proposals starting with point 43 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the series of amendments by 1 vote in favour, 172 against and 24 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4393.9. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted further points of the summary amendment by 131 votes to 43, with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4393. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the part of the amended proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 43 against and 24 abstentions. Mr. Antal Rogán asked for the floor in order of business. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-09-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A few months ago, the more stringent control of brokerage companies was demanded by the entire Parliament, including the opposition representatives, and when the Hungarian National Bank made its first proposals in this regard, they said that it should be done as soon as possible. Then three months passed, honourable opposition Members [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side.]] And now, here in Parliament, all opposition representatives have said no to more stringent supervision of brokerage companies. [[Noise.]]
u2015-06-09-41	Fellow Members!
u2015-06-09-42	We can ask what happened. [[It's constant, it's loud.]]
u2015-06-09-43	Mr. Team Leader!
u2015-06-09-44	Ladies and gentlemen, Did the brokers buy the opposition factions?
u2015-06-09-45	Mr. Team Leader!
u2015-06-09-46	We knew that the representatives of the MSZP and the left were always on the side of the brokers, but that now the friends of the brokers are sitting in Jobbik, that's news to us. [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-47	Mr. Team Leader!
u2015-06-09-48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Government to request that the final vote be postponed so that Parliament can decide on these issues next time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-49	Mr. Team Leader! He asked for a point of order. I don't consider that a point of order, Mr. Group Leader. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government is 4393/16. It initiated in writing the postponement of the final vote. I ask the author if he wishes to speak. House rules give you a five-minute window. [[Mihály Varga: Yes.]] Here you go. Minister Mihály Varga has the floor.
u2015-06-09-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's intention was clear and clear: to strengthen the control of brokerage firms and the protection of investors and depositors. I find it shocking and irresponsible that opposition parties did not support these amendments [[Noise.]] which would have allowed this control to be extended and strengthened. I confirm, Mr President, the motion made in writing: I propose that the final vote be postponed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-51	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Minister has also confirmed in his speech what we have received in writing that he wishes to postpone the final vote. House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament decides to postpone the final vote without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, whether T/4393 will be postponed. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the final vote was postponed by 163 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 1 abstention. It follows a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets for the performance of the tasks of county libraries and county-wide urban museums and the final vote. The submission was made in T/2379. Number 2 is available on the IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/2379/7, and T/2379/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. [[Noise.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. (Noise. ) May I have your attention, please? In Amendment 3, István Apáti and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs put forward a proposal. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 167 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/2379/7. The Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 4 of the summary amendment proposal. [[11.30]] T/2379/7. The Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 4 of the summary amendment proposal. (11.30) First, we will decide on this, and then we will decide on further points of the summary amendment proposal. Accordingly, in point 4 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall draw up Article 3 of the bill. § 4 proposes a technical amendment. At the request of the Fidesz fraction, we decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this point requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 4 of the summarised amendment. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 136 votes in favour, 33 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 5, 10 and 13 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2379/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes, 57 votes against and 5 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2379/7. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 162 votes, 33 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/2379/11. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2379/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted 139 yeses, 58 votes not, without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2379/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 160 votes, 33 votes against and 1 abstentions. It is now up to us to decide on a proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill amending certain laws in the context of accelerating investment in transport infrastructure of major importance for the national economy and the final vote. The submission is T/4453. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4453/11 and T/4453/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to Rule 4 (4) of the Jobbik Group, amendments 4 and 5 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 contains the motion of Mr János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Amendment 5 also contains the motion of Mr János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4453/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes, 36 votes and 30 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4453/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 126 votes in favour, 42 votes in favour and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/4649. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/4649/17 and its summary report is T/4649/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to Article 4 (4) of the MSZP Group, the Group of Jobbik proposed that amendments Nos 4, 9 and 10 be maintained. That's what we decide first. In Amendment 4, Mr Gábor Harangozó and Mr Zsolt Legény put forward a proposal. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 7. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 128 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. In Amendment 7, we decide on the motion of Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 132 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. Amendment 9 is proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 158 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. [[11.40]] I am now voting on Amendment 10, which is also the motion of István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 130 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4649/17. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 61 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4649-19. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 151 votes in favour, 37 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a draft amending proposal for a decision on a national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity for the period 2015-2020 and a final vote follow up. The submission is H/4581. Available to all of them on the IT network. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/4581/7. H/4581/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. So, first, we decide on these things. In Amendment 2, Mr Benedek presented a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Sallai R. Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/4581/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 182 votes to six, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/4581/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 187 votes to one, with four abstentions. It is now up to the decision on the draft amending proposal for a decision on the National Environment Programme 2015-2020 and the final vote. The submission was made in H/4582. Number 2 is available on the IT network. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/4582/5. H/4582/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/4582/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 175 votes, 8 votes against and 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/4582/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 183 votes to one, with 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain health and health insurance legislation. The submission was made by T/4646. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4646/6. T4646/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4646/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 149 votes in favour, 9 against and 35 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4646/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 156 votes in favour, 8 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on the promotion of the employment of students in school cooperatives and of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work. The submission is T-4288. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4288/7. T/4288/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4288/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 157 votes in favour, 9 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4288/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 185 votes to four, with one abstention. It is now up to us to decide on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain criminal laws and the final vote. The submission is T/4643. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. T/4643/19. T/4643/20. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 (4) of the LMP Group, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments 4, 5 and 7, the Group of the MSZP Group 2 and 3 and the Group of Jobbik proposed amendments No 9, 11 and 13. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[11.50]] The LMP Group proposed to maintain amendments 4, 5 and 7, MSZP Group 2 and 3 and Jobbik Group 9, 11 and 13. That's what we're gonna decide first.(11.50) Amendment 4 is a proposal by Mr András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is also proposed by András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 124 against and 28 abstentions. Amendment 7 is also the proposal of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. I am now putting to the vote Amendment No 2, which contains the motion by Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 152 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 124 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Gábor Staudt and István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 161 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 11 is also proposed by Gábor Staudt and István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 165 against and without abstention. Proposal 13 is also proposed by Gábor Staudt and István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 166 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4643/19. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 37 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4643/24. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 9 against, 57 abstentions. The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. and the final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain legislative provisions relating to the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority. The submission was made by T/4644. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4644/6. and the summary report by T/4644/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. In Amendment 2, Dániel Z. Kárpát put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4644/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 7 against and 58 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4644/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to 14, with 54 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would remind you that yesterday the debates had already been held by the Parliament, and that is why only decisions will be taken. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by József Tobias and his fellow Members on the abolition of the state monopoly on tobacco trade, T/4631. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 45 votes in favour, 114 against and 25 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our fellow Members, Zoltán Gőgös and Gábor Harangozó, István MSZP, in order to reduce the price of basic food, CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. T/4394. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 64 votes in favour, 115 against and two abstentions. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you will be included in a series of questions by our better colleagues, Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre, in order to ensure that the procedure of the parliamentary committee can be carried out without delay, the 2012 II. T/4638. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 29 votes in favour, 154 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask you, will József Tobias, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély MSZP and Szelé be included in a series of subjects Nyi Zsuzsanna, the independent Members of the Council of Europe, submitted a proposal to take the necessary measures to recognise and announce the mandatory scope of the Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, H/3964. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[12.00]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 43 votes in favour, 115 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions, and I'm now ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. I declare that today our fellow Members Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry fideszes T/5031 on the minimum service fee to be paid to school cooperatives in order to protect the wages of employees in the school cooperative. Their bill No 1 has been withdrawn. I would remind you that this proposal was part of our agenda adopted yesterday. I would like to inform you that the general debate on the bill will not take place tomorrow, in line with the withdrawal. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue the debate in substance. Next up is the 1994 XLV on war care. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. János Lázár, Zoltán Kovács, László L. Simon, Tamás Vargha Fideszes, and Bence Rétvári KDNP's own motion T/4972. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-09-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr President informed Parliament about the presentation of the item on the agenda, today will be the general debate on the bill tabled by Mr Zoltán Kovács, Mr László L., Mr Bence Rétvári, Mr Tamás Vargha and myself. In this connection, I would like to explain our proposal to you by stating that the 1994 XLV on war care in the present. We propose amendments to the law. The submission is T/4972. can be found on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to begin by saying that my fellow Members, who have been elected parliamentary representatives in the individual area and have been doing their parliamentary work for a long time, know precisely and have experienced the fact that, fortunately, we are still meeting with fellow citizens who are in the second section. victims of World War II. His sacrifices were because they had lost their parents or even had to live their lives as war widows in recent times. The national alliance of war widows, war orphans and war-careers has been turning to my fellow Members of Parliament since 1994, asking for the second edition of the second edition of the Act. During World War II, between November 2 and May 1945, following the death of the Hungarian Royal Defence Office and those serving in the Gendarmerie, the Hungarian citizens who obtained war or war orphan privilege in 45 should first be followed because, in 1949, for obvious political reasons, the Hungarian State of that time denied their entitlement to care; and, on the other hand, to be entitled to compensation after the further development or amendment of the 1992 Act and the 1994 Law on War Care, restoring the conditions prior to 1949. I believe it's the second one. On the 70th anniversary of the end of the World War, the Hungarian Parliament also has an obligation to do everything in order to express its appreciation to the heroes who, as a member of the Hungarian Royal Defence Office, sacrificed their lives for their country between 1938 and 1945. It is a great debt of Hungarian legislation and Hungary that, since 1994, after a one-off recognition and payment of a one-off payment, we have not found a way in the last 20 years to show our appreciation and respect for war widows and war orphans. I don't think generations older than me are even in a position to experience what the II meant. World War II hell. I was born into a family where my grandfather was taken to the Soviet Union in April 1945 and served 3.5 years of detention. It was one of the most shocking experiences of my life when, after his death, I was able to read through the Red Cross postcards, which my great-grandparents in a bundle, in a stósz, rubberized and put together, which he wrote between 1945 and the summer of 1948. [[12.10]] I think that I'm standing here trying to serve my country, perhaps this thing has some role to play, because by reading those censored Red Cross postcards, perhaps a teenage or twenty-year-old child may have experienced the fact that the II. World War II and the subsequent hell could have meant something to a honvéd haka. Not for those who made politics, not for those who led the country, not for those who led the army or made strategic decisions, not for those who lost the war, not for those who won the war, not for those who conducted the political arrangement after 1945, but for the ordinary citizen who was enlisted, whether he wanted a war or not, who served as a soldier, regardless of whether he wanted a war or not, and whose family was forced to suffer the loss, because Hungary was not only the biggest civilian victim of the first and second. In World War II, we made hundreds of thousands of casualties in military casualties. World War II. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. During World War II, as a good Hungarian tradition, following international traditions, families who lost a brother, husband, father, gave respect and recognition, and the Hungarian state tried to take care of them in relation to the social conditions at that time. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I believe that this is also a question of humanity, because the history of modern wars is not only a result of victory, but also of defeat, and since 1859, since the Battle of Solferino and the peace closing it, the Red Cross has been trying to alleviate pain and loss, and in 1875, following the establishment of the Hungarian military defense, the Hungarian legislature also enacted the first law of war care and its first provision, making sure that decisions should be taken in relation to widows and family members who suffered military losses during the war. In this House, for example, a hundred years after the debates on the independent Hungarian army, or referring to the political debates typical of the early 1900s, it may not be unnecessary for me to recall the debate about the provision of the 48-soldiers at the end of the 1800s, the importance of the cultural history and cult history of how the power of the time was, the majority of those of the time, the provision of the 48-soldiers; the number of institutions, the number of forms of supply were born to express the appreciation of the elderly soldiers. World War I presented the country with a completely new challenge, requiring a professional institutional system, when the then government set up institutional structures whose task was to try to overcome the enormous and shocking losses of society. Hungary lost at least 660,000 soldiers in World War I. From the counties of the lowland, including my city, perhaps Mr President, I am allowed to quote this, which had previously held opposition political attitudes against the then power, and during the parliamentary elections they had given opposition representatives to this House - or to the predecessor of this, even to the Archduke Sándor Street - a much higher proportion of young people were recruited and suffered much more serious losses from those counties. That's true of every county in the lowlands, by the way. Therefore, in my city, for example, a vast tradition of war care, orphan care, and care for war widows has emerged. This was the case after 1918, in the first laws of the 20's, and so was the law of great importance from the historical point of view, which the Parliament adopted in 1933 in order to commemorate the victims of World War I, to commemorate them and to provide for war widows, war orphans, warlocks, all those who had to wear World War I hell. When the Annex II is amended as follows: World War II was approaching, then the Hungarian state set up a professional institutional system to address this issue, and in addition, the social alliance, civil society organisation, has operated with self-reliance and autonomous administration, which served as the national alliance of war widows, war orphans and war criminals, also known as HONSZ. It is safe to say that between the two world wars, and even before World War I, everyone was given proper care for war at that time in Europe and in the era. There was no political dispute between the walls of this house that war orphans or war widows, regardless of the outcome of World War I, so whether Hungary has won or lost World War I, they do deserve recognition and support. This is a very important issue because of the fact that Annex II is an important issue. This was not the case after World War I, although the sacrifice and loss were far less than during World War I. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. During World War II, between the late autumn of 1938, between 2 November and the summer of 1945, for the first time before the date of 4 April 1945, sometime at the end of March 1945, the Hungarian government excluded those who lost their lives before 15 October 1944. Thus, without any law, the Interim Government has taken a decision to discriminate against those who died after 15 October 1944. From 1945 on, the supply of military equipment and orphanage was continuously dismantled - although the privileges were established back in 45 - and, continuing long research, we can safely say that only in 1949 and based solely on a political decision, the supply of military equipment and orphanage was evenly withdrawn from those acquired in 1945. Which meant that they couldn't get the money, the law, and even, as you know, after 1950, when the whole issue was transferred to the Ministry of Interior - I don't have to say that civil society organisations were liquidated, the representation of interest was abolished, and even the war care institution that was obliged to provide care to war care workers was eliminated - after 1950, the political regime was that the person in II was the political regime. During World War II, he fought for his country and fought against the Soviet Union, of course, as an enemy of the country and the Soviet Union. So he was branded in the Second. All the soldiers of World War II were branded - in my opinion, in a difficult way to exonerate - war widows and war orphans - and were deprived of care. Those who lived - well older than me - in this room, in fact, regardless of political party standing - could experience and know between 1950 and 1990 that the II. World War II front service, the captivity of war, the Second World War. The military events of World War II could only be discussed in a family circle, almost secretly, because it was the regime, the unspoken Ukaz, that II. We are talking about military soldiers who fought in World War II - all sinners. Unlike the officers of the Hungarian Defence Service, who, as we know, were a part of the stigma in 1945, most of them were not confirmed by the certification committees, the fate of these simple soldiers was stigmatisation. Rather than being considered heroes, they were not valued as heroes, who were also prisoners of war, serving the military, or giving respect to war widows or war orphans, they were specifically branded for ultimately fighting the Soviet Union. This is very exciting from the point of view of the government's attempts - as my fellow Members experience, my fellow Member Bence Rétvári and my fellow Member Tamás Vargha - to make worthy commemorations of World War I in this country. And how interesting it is that, while hundreds of thousands of people march on the streets of Britain and London a hundred years after the outbreak of World War I and bow their heads to those who died in the war, in Hungary we do not even know exactly how many sacrifices we have made, there is not a single central monument, we have lived our lives a hundred years ago in World War I or World War II. The graves of soldiers who died in World War II are not all right. In recent decades, we have made efforts to find these burial sites both in Hungary and outside the border, to repair these burial sites in international cooperation, and at least to give the deceased respect for burial. Far away is the world when we will be able to honor those who were relatives. The truth is that in 1990 the Parliament immediately began to discuss this issue when it was established in May. Two branches started to deal with this issue. First of all, there was a law on compensation which was much contested and which has been passed several times by the Constitutional Court. According to the Compensation Act, those who entered the Soviet Union after August 1, 1945 were considered prisoners of war and were compensated. However, in essence, the 1992 Compensation Act excluded war widows and war orphans who had been granted entitlement in 45 from the care or compensation, their family members died, and in 49 the entitlement was withdrawn from them. Then, in 1994 the Law No 45 on War Care was the law that provided these families with a one-time allowance. [[12.20]] The justification of the law - the compensation law and, in fact, the law of 94 on war care - is that there is a way and opportunity to receive some kind of benefit depending on the country's economic performance. Once again, it was not the material aspects that led the authors of the time, nor the civil society organisations, or the representatives of the civil society, to old war orphans or war widows, since there is a way and culture of what soldiers who died heroically were entitled to, and how the community should take care of their relatives. The truth is that, as a Member of Parliament, I have repeatedly encountered the problem of the local organisation of civil society organisations there, the National Federation of War Widows and Warbirds in my constituency - as well as a number of my fellow Members of Parliament, regardless of party standing - that I have been approached and asked to try to act in Parliament as a Member of Parliament, so that, like others, other groups who are otherwise receiving a pension supplement, this community should receive a pension supplement. It is obvious that in opposition times there was little room for manoeuvre, and this is obviously also a budgetary aspect, and it took a year to reconstruct the events precisely, since the withdrawal in 1949 was not entirely clear to everyone. We can say that today in Hungary, a war widow and orphan whose husband and father remained on the front line and in the war between November 1938 and May 1945, can currently be 20 thousand, according to the opinion of the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance and researchers, to the magnitude of such fellow citizens. First of all, before I mention the proposal, it is very important to clarify the first point of principle that our proposal, together with my fellow Members, is for the Parliament, which, I believe, is a very exemplary first proposal in the Hungarian legal history of the last 25 years, to extend the positive consequences of our decision to those who lost their Hungarian citizenship in 1947, regardless of the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947. [[L. Simon László: Good!]] Thus, even out-of-border war widows and war orphans who do not live within the current borders will be given the opportunity to submit their claim to the Hungarian government for this benefit. In particular, the proposal would be not to open the Compensation Act, because there are obviously a number of Constitutional Court decisions and the Fundamental Law, as the former Constitution, also provides for compensation. So, in the legal sense, the proposers are not suggesting that the Compensation Act be reopened. It is the proposal of the proposers that the law on war care be amended to determine who is entitled to war care care. Those who are entitled shall be surrounded by orphans and war widows whose father or husband is in service in the Hungarian Royal Army or in the Police Department, regardless of the stockboard and the rank, so regardless of the unit and the rank in which he served, receive a pension supplement of approximately HUF 8850 equal to 30 per cent of the current minimum pension for the rest of his life. The technical definition of eligibility is - we propose - a government decree, but our aim is to make this possible in every district office. The pension system should be ready and able to pay for this. Once again, I would like to say that, regardless of which state, under the peace treaty signed in Paris on 10 February 1947, Hungary's representatives, has become a national of our fellow countryman serving as a Hungarian citizen in the former war, he would receive benefits on the basis of our proposal. I believe that regardless of the assessment of the events of World War II, which is not the purpose of this bill, purely because of human duty, 70 years after the end of World War II, this expenditure, which is worth a few billion forints a year, is an amount that the country has to take on, giving respect and recognition to those who have lost their loved ones, their father, they had to grow up as orphans and give recognition to those who have lost their husbands or loved ones in the hell of World War II. It is not an optional category, since those enlisted in World War II in 38, 39 or the following years could not choose their fate. So the point of the proposal is to grant respect, in fact to follow those from whom entitlement benefits were withdrawn in 1949 on the basis of a clear political decision. The point of the proposal is to receive a pension supplement of 30% of the minimum old-age pension. The point of the proposal is that this may be linked in a small part to national reunification, as we will be opening cross-border eligibility. There could be a few thousand people across the border who could be part of this circle of beneficiaries. I think it is about fulfilling a failed duty. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not put this forward on behalf of the government, together with my secretary of state colleagues, because I do not think that all my fellow Members in Parliament will have to vote on us and not on the government here. I believe that 70 years after the end of World War II, we can at least agree that the victims of World War II, war widows and war orphans may be worthy of HUF 8850 per month. It would be a big deal if we could agree on that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-53	Thank you very much, Mr Parliament. As the Minister said, not as a minister, as a member of the government, but as its representatives, presented the Expo. So I'm going to ask you now, according to the House Rules of Procedure, if anyone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Tamás Vargha reporting.]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-09-54	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The societies of civilization cherish and cherish the memory of their heroes with grace and pride. I warn all the nations, and it is a duty, because forgetfulness and indifference do not serve the future, does not build it, and does not raise our children to peace. Regrettably, there were countries whose national history may have had periods when they had to deny their own heroic dead. Hungary was forced into such a state of national destruction after World War II. It is a serious loss to the Hungarians that this change of era did not take place on the basis of moral values developed in Hungarian spirituality,' wrote András Görömbei, "but in the interests of an alien great power that suppresses the nation. The dictatorship banished all civic values, pursued the national feeling directly, and excluded the Hungarian parts of the nation that were torn away in Trianon. In the decades following the change of regime, we sought to recover from the shock left behind by the shameful 40 years. In 1994 there was a law on war care, which acknowledged that the protection of the country, the responsibility for the country, and heroism were among the highest national interests. Thus, contrary to the practice of previous decades, when monuments were erected out of oblivion, research, museums, collections and monuments now preserve the names of our heroes, who, in the world's fires of the last century, experienced something in the name of the nation, which is an indelible lesson in common consciousness. Therefore, in view of the past 70 years, with the condition that we do not wish to classify the events of the war, it is not past our duty to help the relatives of our hero soldiers and their surviving family members in the ranks of the Hungarian Royal Defence and Police. On this moral basis, once again rejecting the political decision on the promissoryity of the war orphans, born after 1949, with which the Hungarian families were crippled and humiliated, and also with regard to our fellow nations living beyond our borders, whose ancestor served in the bonds of the Hungarian Royal Army and the Police, but as a result of the Paris Peace Treaty, they became citizens of other countries, and, in the knowledge of their responsibilities for the future, the Hungarian Government supports the individual motion to amend the Law on War Care. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-09-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have speeches from Members. A speaker's speech will be held in the first round. I am asking if anyone from the Fidesz Group wants to speak now. [[Mátyás Firtl: Together!]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Matthias Firtl, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go. [[12.30]]
u2015-06-09-56	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP, I will give my speech as a keynote speaker. I would like to start by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that I belong to the generation of even known war orphans and war widows. And if I may make my personal point, my father came home from the Don, and I happen to have a godmother, but I don't have a godfather, because he stayed there, and we just thought he'd come home. I consider it our duty to pay the nation's respect and compassion for the T/4972 ahead. We also express financial support, as set out in bill No 1. I think it is important to say that the legislator does not intend to classify the events of the Second World War with this law, but he wishes to express his deepest sympathy and support to all those who have not been given this in the last seven decades. They were all our ancestors who did their duty, not to spare their lives. When they went to war, they fought with honor and patriotism, with the identity of protecting their country, their families, the existence they had built until then, with the sacred conviction that they could not be shaken by fear or death in fulfilling their military duty, because they had to fight for Hungary. A sense of duty, a sense of Hungarian identity, moral standing and camaraderie would still be examples today. Their sacrifice, integrity, and maintenance in the most noble form today's generations can and must be an example. Respect should also be given to all the sea of pain and suffering that burst out of the souls of their husbands, sons, brothers and sisters for decades. We can also restore the glory and honor of our heroes, if only in part in this form, because they also had to bear false stamps in their graves. During the dictatorship after the Second World War, the commemorations were banned, distorted, and discredited because of their political and symbolic content. Yet the soldier who fights for his country always fulfills his constitutional duty, and, in fulfilling his constitutional duty, he cannot weigh himself individually, serving his country according to his oath. There are no winners and losers in the tomb, there are heroes dead, who, keeping their human greatness, have sacrificed their lives under the most difficult fates and circumstances for everything they have sworn to do: for their country, for their country, for their country, to their death. Their widows, orphans, are the ones to whom war care is due, not replacing the one who is lost. When the 1994 XLV on war care. We are making amendments to the law; when we substantially modify the circle of warcareers, the sexes of care and its financing, we also fulfill our moral obligation in the sense that we are once and for all removing the stamp of guilt which has been unduly glued to our heroes in the past system, and we are doing this practical expression of this intention by means of the law amendment. I stress that in one other so-called socialist country, they did not make war-careers, war widows, war orphans, it only happened in Hungary. It was an extraordinary injustice, which was committed against them in 49. However, on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP, I also consider it important, out of special Christian solidarity, compassion and duty, that the Hungarian Parliament, with this law, also expresses the strong will to reject the political decision taken in 1949, which deprived the widows and orphans of the soldiers who died in the Second World War and who died in captivity, not in one case, of the possibility of a decent human life. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to material support, the law also targets moral compensation for life that has been hard for the sins of the past system when it determines the circle of all those due to material support. I note here that the weight of the decision and our decision-making responsibility are also determined by the fact that, knowing the detailed figures of the war-care workers, their number is decreasing over time, the number of people in the care area has decreased by more than 3,700 since 2010. It is the Christian man's duty to consciously, actively turn to the poor, to people on the edge of society, among whom many church documents specifically mention widows and orphans. Just one example: the second Vatican Council's Ordinis decree states: "Do not neglect widows, orphans, and the poor." Human dignity is universal, inviolable, manifesting itself in its rights and duties. He must have access to all that is necessary for decent human life. This is how we can compensate the warcare workers, whose number was 6056 in 2014, beyond the benefits. Economists say that the viability of the economy is closely linked to the moral state of the country. Fidesz-KDNP shows the effectiveness of federal policy that the Hungarian economy has reached the level of its capacity and capacity to provide for those who have been deprived of benefits as a result of political discrimination after 1945. Speaking of fundamental Christian value, the word "value" in itself suggests something that cannot be measured by economic parameters. Accepting Christian values is synonymous with accepting the truest human values. It is not just about religious or religious values, but about universal human values, among them the sacrifice of life, heroism, patriotism, and on our part today the recognition of this, solidarity, the creation of the circumstances of human dignity, and the expression of all of this is this draft law. Dear House, At the same time, the legislation under discussion also expresses the importance of cross-border reunification, treating as equal all those who, as Hungarian citizens, have given their lives for the country. They are the ones who have been disadvantaged in the separated parts of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, Our basic law, the basis of our legal order: an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. During the war events, our soldiers died a heroic death as a result of exemplary restoration, and they gave their lives to this alliance in the past, so we, the ones left behind, are bound by fate even in the coming time. And according to the Fundamental Law, we are also proud of our heroes fighting for our country's survival, freedom and independence. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The proposal for a bill extending the scope of those entitled to war care is an initiative by which the Hungarian Parliament can show due respect and compassion to those whose relatives died for their country and the people who lived here during the Second World War, or who were imprisoned or dragged to forced labour. Although the National Assembly fulfilled its obligation to compensate, grant an annuity to certain persons concerned during the legislative process in 1992 and then in 94, and even after the reopening of the Compensation Act in 97 and 2006, we still have compatriots who unfortunately did not receive this state provision. According to the provisions in force, a widow whose late husband had entered the territory of Hungary at that time, taking into account the date of entry into the military service, but without a change of residence, he was currently a citizen of another state, and could not receive an allowance for the chemical war. [[12.40]] In the same way, he is not entitled to care of war-care workers under the current legal provisions of the former war-reinforced or orphaned and former war-care family member who was registered as an orphan of war, war-reinforced family member before 1 January 1949, but who, because of his or her age or political reasons, was terminated or his or her application for such care was rejected for political reasons, and who did not submit his or her application for political reasons, as well as a Hungarian citizen living abroad. By extending the range of beneficiaries of care for war, we can now create the possibility for such persons to receive an equivalent amount of benefits with the provisions in force. Having examined the number of beneficiaries of current care in the war care sector, we can unfortunately conclude that, compared to the 2004 figures, only a much fewer number of former beneficiaries could receive these benefits in 2014, a third. With the bill, a new group of beneficiaries - who have been left out of the form of delivery so far - can receive the current monthly allowance of HUF 8550, whose pain of losing their family members must be shared, and it is also our duty to express our appreciation for their sacrifice for their country. I would ask the honourable Members to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-09-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who is speaking his speech, the keynote speech from here on the platform. We'll wait for the congressman to rise. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó enters the speaker's stand.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We're talking about the law on war care today. Unfortunately, we have to speak in this House in Hungary primarily because there were politicians, leaders of this country who fought in Europe out of power, perhaps half-way or completely out of madness, based on nationalistic ideology, fought with our neighbours, and led this country into a suicide war in 1914 and 1939. It must be recorded in this House anyway. We must also make it clear that our soldiers, our own grandparents, our great-grandparents, who are suffering on the front or who are prisoners of war - I think there is not very much in the room a man, a fellow Member who cannot speak of personal aspects - their appreciation, the care of them and their families are fundamental and minimum moral obligations of every generation in Hungary. In this, I think it must and always have been a national minimum since the change of regime. However, let us also state that no one in this House will ever rehabilitate the servers and maintainers of totalitarian dictatorships, whether they are Arrowmen, Nazis or Communists. Dear Parliament, The rules on war care have always been consensual here in Parliament for the last 20 years. Since the change of regime, no one in this House has disputed the need to provide a worthy care for all those who have suffered a permanent disability in the service of the country, or for those who have died a heroic death in the service of their relatives. The Law on War Care has been amended many times since the adoption of the Act of 94, and with the agreement of everyone, these amendments were usually intended to extend the scope of entitlement. The Parliament adopted such an amendment, extending the scope of entitlement, with a complete consensus in 97, 98 and 2000. These amendments include the legislative proposal that has now been tabled, and this objective is also eligible under the MSZP. Although a number of criticisms could be drawn up in the context of the preparation and codification of the bill, the bill makes entitlement conditional on vague concepts which could preclude some from doing so, even in the face of the author's intention, but may provide benefits to others in spite of the author's intention. We therefore propose that Minister Lazarus and his authors carry out a legal review of the bill, clarify the scope of the law, and define the conditions of entitlement beyond any doubt, taking into account the aspects of enforceability. While the Parliament has repeatedly dealt with the expansion of those receiving war care, unfortunately there has been little mention of the extent of the benefits. However, the depreciation of benefits is, in our view, an extremely serious problem today. These benefits are linked to the minimum amount of the old-age pension at all times. Unprecedentally, in the last 5 years, the amount of the pension minimum of 28 500 HUF has not increased by one forint. Fidesz seems to think he's doing well, because next year, there's no plan to raise it. Minister, in his expo, my fellow Member, he stressed the worthy care. What this means for orphans and wards? Their benefits are only 30 percent of the minimum retirement pension, i.e. 8550 HUF per month. I believe that the amount is low even in respect of the number of persons of pensionable age targeted by the bill, but it is highly unacceptable for children who remain orphans in the future. Because the law on war care is also intended to provide adequate care for those in need of war care in the future. We trust that in the coming years no one will lose their lives during his military service or due to acts of war, but unfortunately this cannot be ruled out, as the Hungarian Defence Forces are also present in the dangerous crisis zones of the world, with significant forces. Although the preparedness of Hungarian soldiers is outstanding, the risk of loss of human lives cannot be excluded in the evening of military operations. Unfortunately, it has not been a tragic case in recent years when Hungarian soldiers lost their lives in the line of duty. It is important that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are able to take on their risky vocation, knowing that in the event of trouble, the Hungarian government, Hungary, will not fail their loved ones. Let's face it, according to the laws in force, the HUF 8550 allowance for war orphans is completely insufficient to feed, clothe and school a minor child. Moreover, those who, in the future, will lose their father, mother, in the context of military service, when they are 16 years old and when they are 25 years old, will lose their orphanage. Here, however, there is some tension between the legislation on ex-war orphans contained in the bill and the legislation on orphans in the future. I would like to stress that the unacceptable low level of benefits is not primarily due to the law on war care, but to the shockingly low pension minimum. Therefore, if the Minister and State Secretarys who put forward the bill really want to help those who receive war care and want to change the situation substantially, it is their job to achieve an increase in the minimum pension for the government. If they really care about the fate of those who are warded, then this task will be solved simultaneously with the amendment of the law on war care, or even in this law. We salute our heroes who sacrifice for their country, we support their care. And this bill, we ask the authors to try to remedy it as we have proposed. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-09-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Kulcsár. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal before us is, in general, leading to an expansion of the range of war-care workers, and it also gives access to support to those who have had this terminated for some reason, and I am thinking of moving abroad, political persecution or changes in the border. [[12.50]] We find the proposal to be a substitute. Before, Jobbik called for it, specifically last December, when we discussed the amendment of the laws relating to the status of military defenders and war care between the walls of the House in order to increase and include the benefits of war orphans in the law. Jobbik will support this proposal, we find it to be supported and supported. As Minister said, after the loss of World War II, war-care workers in Hungary were in a very shameful situation, a situation that was unprecedented among the warring countries. This was due to the Rákosi system, the communist dictatorship. It should also be pointed out that there were other Communist countries in Europe at the time, but even there they appreciated the people who fought for their country, who had fallen or were wounded on the front. They were appreciated enough to receive adequate benefits. In the case of war orphans and war widows, this happened in these countries. Unfortunately, this was not the case in Hungary. The Rákosi regime has abolished the entire system, the organization of the War Care Association, their work has been banned, their headquarters nationalized, and all benefits have been withdrawn from the people in need. That's a shame. After 1990, the War Care Association was re-established. It should also be mentioned that in 1949, the number of warcareers was 800,000. This also shows how many of our countrymen have been affected by this issue, and it still affects many people, almost all people, even today, through relatives. Unfortunately, when the Parliament adopted the law already mentioned in 1994, we believe that the compensation was not properly settled. The one-sum payment that was given to them did not in fact represent how much benefit they had fallen from. The present proposal is a bit of a remedy for them, it is true that it will come very late to this House. In particular, I would like to say a few sentences about the proposal itself. The first three paragraphs settle the scope of war care. This will be extended, subject to the law as an ex - war orphan, ex - warded or ex - warded family member. It is also a proposal to supplement the concept of war widows. This is necessary so that widows who do not currently live in Hungary can also receive care, but widows of persons who entered from Hungary when the territory belonged to our country. This is also a very important point in the proposal and, of course, Jobbik supports it. Article 3 In Section 5 there are former family members who are orphaned, war-loving, war-care-careers who were previously entitled to benefits, but who have ceased to receive benefits because of changes in legislation, and if no application has been made, they may still receive an allowance under these categories. The Minister mentioned a very important point in his speech, and I am very pleased that he has also brought up the World War II monuments and the war tombs, which in many places are indeed not in the state they should be in. I'd also like to talk about the war tombs across the border. There's not much to say about that. The situation may be even worse in the case of cross - border graves, not only because of their neglect, but also because some nations have taken the path of counterfeiting of history. I am thinking of the war tombs in Transylvania, where Romanian inscriptions were added to the Hungarian war tombs, and these tombs are presented as if they were not Hungarian soldiers. We should find a solution to these, too. In conclusion, we consider it a good proposal, and Jobbik will, of course, support it with its vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Possibly Other Politics agrees with the government that the widows and orphans of soldiers who have died, who have disappeared and died in captivity in World War II must express their solidarity with society and that, without discrimination, financial support must also be provided to all those involved. According to the reasons for this amendment of the law, it was written with the intention that the proper financial support should also apply to all those whose husband or father was in the ties between 2 November 1938 and 9 May 1945 of the Hungarian Royal Defence and Police. It is also proposed that this benefit be granted regardless of the status of the person concerned or his rank. The right to benefits must also be independent of the fact that, as a result of the peace treaty signed in Paris on 10 February 1947 by the representatives of Hungary, the country concerned became a national. The LMP also agrees that the aim of the proposal is to treat as equal all those who, as Hungarian citizens, have sacrificed their lives for their country. The text of the bill also opens the right to war care regardless of residence for those Hungarian citizens who were registered before 1 January 1949. Due to the changes in Hungary's borders, there are many people who have not been entitled to benefits from the Hungarian State. On the basis of the proposal, those who have entered from Hungary will also be entitled to claim a heroic death after their late husband's care, but without a change of residence, they are now citizens of another state. The bill introduces the concept of former war orphan, ex-military and ex-military family members in order to create the possibility for those who were previously entitled to war care, but who ceased to provide money or ceased to be entitled, to receive the allowance on request. Overall, we therefore believe that the bill is justified and therefore the LMP supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-06-09-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The resolution house rule is 36. Paragraph 4 of the Act provides that it is now possible for the first independent Member to speak within a 15-minute time frame. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kónya, who will give his speech in place. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I think there is no greater sin than a state, a government, or a power turning their backs on its heroes, turning their backs on those who have given their lives or their health for their country. This bill is trying to provide a remedy for a mistake and sin that our predecessors committed before the change of regime. For me, as a professional soldier, perhaps one of the most painful things I had to experience was that in Hungary or in other countries, in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, soldiers' graves were careless, completely neglected in various cemeteries, or even in cemeteries, but in different places. And there was no more elevated feeling than when, in the early and mid-1990s, with several soldiers, three platoons of soldiers in Poland repaired Hungarian soldiers' graves for several months, and then in Ukraine, too, we discovered and discovered military graves with Hungarians living outside the border, and fixed them. This bill not only points to the past, but also to the soldiers of the present, because it finally states that Hungary cannot turn its back on our soldiers, our heroes. It is certain that this bill will also send a message to the soldiers of the present. [[13.00]] However, I must agree with my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, that this law is indeed a symbolic law, but in its amount and sum - I think it may be possible to say - it is perhaps unworthy to set such a low amount of such an allowance. I am aware that there are obviously budgetary implications, but, at the same time, if we say that it is justified that these people should be given some kind of payment, then we should think about trying to raise this amount in some way, since it also has a message value. Indeed, I also have to agree with what many of my fellow Members have pointed out that I am sure that everyone here in this Chamber has some kind of affected relative and that we are finally on the road to honoring those people. No matter what war the Second World War was, but the people who sacrificed their lives or their health for their country, or their relatives who have to suffer for their death, have a worthy appreciation, I can therefore say that I fully support this bill, but at the same time I agree with my Mr Bellozó, that there is indeed a need to make certain technical amendments to this proposal. Thank you. [[A rare round of applause among MSZP, KDNP and independent representatives.]]
u2015-06-09-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-09-66	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In fact, the initiative we are meeting here in this House is a replacement. I think it is very good that this initiative has taken place. One of the things I asked for was to say that I fully agree with what was said in the keynote speech of my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó. Beyond that, as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and as Parliamentary Representative of the Fields, I think - and I propose to the Hungarian Parliament and the presenter to consider it; I have not heard Mr Lázár's full speech, for which I apologise - the situation is ripe on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the First World War and the 70th anniversary of the European closure of the Second World War - and as the president of the MSZP in Budapest, I ask the Parliament to consider it - that a great central monument be erected by Hungary for all the fallen soldiers of the two world wars; a great central monument that commemorates the heroes. I deal with World War I myself a lot, I've been to many graves in neighbouring countries, including Western Europe. Beyond his personal interests, I think Hungary deserves to have a truly large, worthy central monument set up in Budapest. Every district, every settlement has a monument or monument, I've looked into it myself, but there is no such thing as a great monument that is truly worthy. I ask that, if we are to take such an initiative, support it, or if you are to take such an initiative, we would like to support it, at least on my behalf, and at least start a dialogue about it. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-09-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Bence Rétvári, from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that we are faced with a question that is not a political issue, but a question of humanity, which has also been reflected in the speeches. Allow me to begin with a personal memory. Obviously, and my parents didn't have much of a memory of World War II, the victims they suffered there. There are two objects from my childhood that remain as a memory: a painting on the wall, painted by one of my grandmother's cousins - Uncle Guszti - or a small statue of Mary under the bulb. My mother and grandmother prayed at the little statue of Mary under the bulb every night during the world war to bring my grandfather home, and they were lucky, because my grandfather came home from the front after several years. The painter of the picture, our relative, Uncle Guszti, who used to paint a painting in the Hungarian vineyard of a snowy wounded man, was out on the front, but he never came back. This picture reminded all of us in the family who went to the cafeteria in addition to the fact that wars in every family had a great deal of casualties. This bill seeks to pay attention to people whose relatives have suffered such irreplaceable losses. The current amendment of the Law on War Care makes up for almost seven decades of failure, once again allowing the financial support of widows and orphans of soldiers and labor workers who were missing and who died in captivity in World War II, because a political decision made in 1949 deprived them of care in war care. We can say that these people, who once had the right to receive such care from the state - which obviously does not make up for their loss emotionally, but helps in some way in their financial difficulties - were taken away from them on the basis of a principle of collective disenfranchization, simply because they served in the national army of the Hungarian state at the time, not in the Red Army, but in the national army, if they wanted to, if they didn't, if they didn't, if they didn't. They fulfilled their legal obligations and patriotism when they participated in the Hungarian army during World War II. This disenfranchisement also shows which system is the one for which a person is considered, and who is the only one for whom the maintenance of the system counts in any way. This kind of collective disenfranchization, collective stigmatization is the dictatorship's own. We regret that these people then had to wear this brand for decades, and they only, like all citizens, fulfilled their obligation to serve in the Hungarian army. The important thing is that every system in these cases also considers one to be the priority in the matter of redemption. It is also a question here, with which they may have been unable to account for decades during the repressive dictatorship whether a loser could be a victim. The idea was that there were only those on the winning side who were on the right side, and there might be casualties, and on the side of the losers the victim, the victim becoming the victim, was completely excluded, since they completely morally branded all those who were on the losing side, not having regard to the human fates behind it. On the basis of the proposed amendment of the law, all those who served in the bond of the former Hungarian Royal Defence and Police between 2 November 1938 and 9 May 1945, regardless of their status, rank and the fact that they became citizens of the country as a result of the peace treaty signed in Paris on 10 February 1947 by the representation of Hungary. With this, the legislation also expresses the importance of cross-border reunification. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the first law, the first law that regards Hungarians from beyond the border as a personal principle, does not look at their place of residence; it does not look at who can receive support from Hungary, the Hungarian State through what association, but similar to the principle that the government has decided to adopt in relation to the support of Hungarians from Transcarpathia, which has recently been in a very difficult situation, which has been hit several times because of a war situation in Transcarpathia, according to the same new principle, provides Hungarians from beyond the border with the same care, the same compensation that the Hungarians live within the border. The bill takes into account the fact that Article XX does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. Hungary's borders have changed several times in centuries in historical storms, so the war widows whose husbands entered from Hungary are now citizens of another state, after their late husband died. The bill provides for the possibility that persons who have previously been entitled to war care but who have ceased or ceased to be eligible as a result of the political decision of 49, or who have not submitted their applications for political reasons, may receive an allowance on request. Obviously, there are several ways of political reasons here, but the main reason why they couldn't submit this is because they couldn't go to the Hungarian state as a cross-border. In the case of applicants resident abroad, who are not resident in Hungary, the place of application shall be the Metropolitan Government Office. I think all the questions that our fellow Members have raised about the war tombs are equally important, because in many places one of the last signs of the Hungarian presence is the Hungarian soldiers, the Hungarian soldiers' tombs, and we have an obligation to cultivate them and keep them in good hands. In this, both the Ministry of Defence and the Memorial Committee, which deals with the worthy commemoration of the First World War, launched important programs. We hope that a full inventory of military casualties, a full list of Hungary, to be more precise: the almanach of the heroic dead can be compiled. [[13.10]] This may be easier in the case of World War II, but of the 662,000 heroic dead already mentioned in the First World War, the names of hundreds of thousands of dead and 200,000 prisoners of war have already been re-assessed on the basis of data from Vienna, Budapest and the rural archives, but it is obvious that there will be a total of three times 600 thousand people, as there were about the same number of soldiers who were wounded and killed. In World War II, much more than 300,000 Hungarian soldiers died, and the number of civilians who were also victims of World War II was much higher than the first World War. This is why it is important to renovate these monuments and to set up a central monument for the heroic dead of the First World War in Budapest. We can report that more than 110 heroic monuments of the First World War in various settlements have been renovated over the past year, and again in the old light, in the glory of the old, proclaims the heroicness of the Hungarians and the memory of the heroic dead. I trust that this bill will serve this kind of satisfaction, the satisfaction of heroes, 70 years too late, but I trust that it will serve this matter with full parliamentary consensus, and I am sure that it will serve with full national consensus. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-69	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to express my thanks to everyone who is taking part in this debate at the moment, because I feel that everyone has spoken in their comments in a dignified manner that is worthy of this bill. Here, on the basis of personal reports and personal concerns, it is clear that there really is no family in Hungary that is not involved in this circle, since there were soldiers and relatives from all families who lost their lives in the service of their country. Therefore, the question arises, why did it have to wait 25 years to make this law and indeed to pay tribute to the memory and heroism of those who were willing to risk and sacrifice their lives for Hungary. The other thing that arises here at the beginning of the debate - and I really do not want to arouse any emotion in this debate - is that if we can talk so openly about such historical events in such a calm and realistic way, then I think that this can give us a certain confidence that we can one day get to the point where Hungary does not need laws such as the laws currently in force, which, say, punish the denial of national socialist and communist crimes. For if we can speak so openly and so calmly about historical events and indeed set ourselves a goal of learning about historical events, and this also applies to society, then surely we will be able to appreciate these events in a realistic way and talk about them. One of the things I would like to raise about the bill is that I would ask both the authors and the government to examine the possibility that there is a large enough number, the number of people missing, for whom in many cases it may have been that they were not declared dead, but that they simply defined the date of their disappearance, and that is why they were no longer war orphans or war orphans. Let us consider that they will be able to be included in this circle, for it is quite a circle. The other is that, in addition to my fellow Members' speeches, I say that we should look at the possibility that we may have of possibly raising this amount, which is not a very high amount at the moment, how we can raise it, what the budget has at the moment to expand this amount a little, or invent some other form to increase this amount. We will, of course, support this bill, and we will, of course, support any proposed amendment, even during the Commission debate, which will advance this law, which will make this law better, and which will indeed show our appreciation even more. Joining once again in order to see how much we should cultivate beyond material wealth, we are talking about various monuments or the care of war tombs; of course, any related laws and amendments to law for Jobbik Hungary will be supported by the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, and I hope that with full consensus, and that all Members will feel important that when it comes to voting on this bill, they should vote in favour of this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Care for the victims of world wars cannot be questioned. It's a moral bond. This obligation, this obligation, I think, transcends all ideological thoughts for all Members of Parliament, regardless of their origin or colour. I say here in Parliament's walls that we can say that we are lucky, in a generational sense, because we have not suffered these processes in a direct form, but memories or pictures that have been told, which have evolved into memoirs, sit deep in each one of us. 1914, 1939: My fellow bellman spoke in his speech about these suicide wars, their horrors, and all the things that the families might have to suffer afterwards. In this sense, therefore, the introduction, the line of thought expressed in my fellow Member Lazarus's exposé, which indicates that there is no task, there is no moral obligation in this respect, a standard for me, and a standard which is eligible and acceptable. I would just like to add two questions, a supplement. In fact, if we consider something important, then, of course, in terms of its financial background, we also need to create the sum that virtually ensures that this can be met at the right level and in an appropriate way. From 2015 to 16th, a few hundred million HUF reduction in the supply of war widows and war orphans was also made. Obviously, this is also linked to unfortunate events, deaths and so on, but I think that the magnitude that has been mentioned requires the involvement of some 20,000 people in this respect. Obviously, this should also appear in the 2016 budget. It is worth considering, considering, and giving an exact answer to the question of what is going on with the people who have been awarded Hungarian citizenship, and whether there were similar forms of supply in the neighbouring countries, and how and how they fit together. But the second question, which I would like to add as a supplement, is, in fact, the one that concerns the range of beneficiaries who, as war orphans, may not exceed their 16th year of age and then may not pursue school studies, and the other that, after their 25th year of age, if their studies are completed, they will also cease to exist. It is worth considering whether these two time limits should be maintained or not. [[13.20]] The final part of my second supplementary thought can be nothing more than the fact that, unfortunately, the minimum retirement pension in Hungary has been held at a shamefully low level for long, long, long years, and this form of care appears matchingly, 30 percent of this, which is virtually not much higher than 8 thousand HUF. It would be worthwhile - I repeat the idea of our lead speaker - to increase the amount of the old-age pension minimum, to fulfil many good obligations in this Parliament, and, indirectly, the creation of surplus funds for the provision of war widows and war orphans would also constitute a basis for the implementation and implementation of such a proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of János Lázár:]] Yes, I give the floor to John Lazarus on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-09-74	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Parliament! Firstly, I would like to thank all those who have participated in the debate so far and I would like to point out to the rapporteur that we are ready to consider the amendments tabled and to reach a consensus in Parliament. I would like to make the point here in any way that it is necessary to clarify that our proposal, our five proposals, we intend not to affect the supply of war widows and war orphans currently in force, which is a greater amount than this. My colleague, State Secretary Tamás Vargha, will provide detailed information at the Commission's stage when discussing the amendment as to who is entitled to it at the moment under the law on war care; how, for example, in the case of losing a soldier in Afghanistan, the Hungarian State provided for this. We would not want to change these rules, but to supplement them. So what you have raised about the extent to which the current proposal would undermine or affect the supplies of war orphans or war widows that were previously in force, will be examined in detail. Our goal is not to make this worse, our goal is not to re-evaluate it, but to make sure it's okay. It has not yet occurred to us that this is a problem, but we will examine this in detail. The technical amendments, which concern clarification on the grounds of legislation, will, of course, be accepted, and we have also turned to the Ministry of Justice to clarify and clarify the issues raised by the Prime Speaker of the Hungarian Socialist Party, my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó. So we're all prepared to consider that. I also consider the amount to be taken into account, of course, as to the amount of pension supplements granted on the basis of other similar pension supplements and the logic of compensation, in fairness, in recognition of heroism or suffering. We will also draw up a table and a summary of this debate, as many people in Hungary - those who were hurt before 1945, and those who were hurt after 1945 - will benefit from a kind of pension supplement; the sum of which is worth looking at in a monthly breakdown. These have been significantly increased by the government in recent years, so there are much larger items than here, but we will also be working on this, so that we can correctly inform my fellow Members in Parliament - that they should have a baseline - on how to provide a pension supplement to those who were politically persecuted between 1945 and 1990, or those who were victims of Jewish laws made before 1945, if any, after 1938, and who were subject to those laws. We will work this out in detail, so that they have a basis for comparison, we will also talk to the Ministry of Economy and the pension insurance company, and we will look at the records in detail again about how many people we may be talking about, because obviously the scope of the budget will be affected by the merit of being 100 thousand people or 18,000 people. Our presumption - it is very interesting, by the way, I would just like to inform the Parliament - is that, unfortunately, the number of people who receive Holocaust survivors and pension supplements is already under 10 thousand, and it is a shocking parallel that the number of people who receive a pension supplement under 10 thousand is almost equal to the ratio of those who receive a pension supplement by political stigma, persecution or judgment after 45. So the two groups are represented in the compensation scheme in almost the same order of magnitude, which is significantly reduced year after year, unfortunately, this issue will no longer constitute a budgetary burden for the country's budget within five to ten years. If we can count 15-18,000 people here, we can roughly calculate what that means for the next five to ten years. These calculations will be added to the presentation. Thank you very much for your constructive attitude, and we look forward to continuing the debate.
u2015-06-09-75	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The draft law on public procurement and the joint general debate on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will now follow. The billings are T/4849. and T/4850. It was received by numbers and could be met by fellow Members. I now give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who will bring together the exposé of the two legislative proposals in a two-time 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-09-76	Thank you very much. I do not want to cause alarm by using the possibility of twice 30 minutes - which is generously guaranteed by the House Rules and the President of Parliament - but I would like to summarize for you the proposal for a public procurement law, which will be presented to Parliament in the submission of the Government T/4849. I would like to draw your attention to what is the reason, what is the purpose, what is the point, and to some of the provisions, which will mean a substantial change in the public procurement system over the next period. Firstly, I would like to point out to you that there are several reasons why we need to address this issue. Ten years ago, after our accession to the European Union in 2004, after the surrender of part of our sovereignty, the European Public Procurement Directives were transposed into legislation in Hungary. In 2014, the European Union adopted a new public procurement directive and the Member States, which renounced part of their sovereignty in 2004 as regards the rules on spending public funds, have an obligation to transpose the new public procurement directive of the European Union into Hungarian practice and into national practice by spring 2016. So one of the reasons for our presentation is that the European Union has a new public procurement system after learning the lessons of the past ten years. This also means that Parliament has limited powers in the field of legislation, which means that the law that we will adopt cannot be contrary to the new directive of the European Commission, and that Hungary has an obligation to negotiate on the grounds of the Association Agreement and the membership of the European Union. So far, the Commission has been consulted on about three occasions on the proposed bill, involving several DGs in meaningful work. So I am able to inform the Parliament that we have not only tabled a bill in accordance with the new EU directive, but that we have also started the necessary European Commission discussions. We have a written statement from the Regional Directorate-General and the Competition Directorate-General on the opening, existence of these consultations and the fact that the European Commission expressly supports the transposition of the directive and the introduction of the values set out in the Directive in Hungary, partly because of the scale of the EU's resources over the last seven years, because of the use of public funds, and partly because it is clear that, after the economic crisis in Europe, after 2007 and 2008, the expenditure of public funds has been significantly appreciated, in particular in order to modernise and dynamicise the economy. Public spending today has a very important role to play in European competitiveness, so the European Union pays particular attention to ensuring that public money is spent in a transparent manner, surrounded and followed by the wider public, with greater transparency and transparency. [[13.30]] So in part, we can say that about 20 percent of the European Union's GDP comes from sources used by public procurement. So it doesn't matter what form of money we use, because the scale at European level is huge. 20 percent of European GDP is a resource used as a result of European public procurement. On the other hand, we can also say that this is of particular importance for Hungary, because the EU development resources provided in the last seven years, together with the domestic self-power available between 2014 and 2020, represent the country's potential for primary development and accession development of some HUF 12,000 billion. So if we clearly assess Hungary's budgetary situation, we are today, together with all the structural reforms of the last twenty years, that the most important source of development for the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget is the development resource for the purpose of catching up from the European Union. This has been the case for the past seven years, and this is the reality for the next seven years. Economic growth, several percent economic growth, can add its own national margin, where it is also in our interest to be able to spend public money transparently. I would also like to say that there is a division in the European Union in relation to the fate of cohesion funds for Central European countries that are catching up. The need for citizens of the European Union to spend resources while keeping strict accounts and increasing transparency and publicity. There is indeed political pressure on the regional DG or on the various Commissioners in the public domain of the European Union to ensure that these funds are used transparently, accountablely and for what purpose they serve. When, in my constituency, or in your constituency, or among the voters represented by my fellow Members, one of the citizens of the large net contributor states, say, a German voter, and is shocked to see the fountains and benches in the main squares of our cities coming from the taxes paid by him, or even the Hungarian motorway network, which is realized in the best Central European comparison, his tax, or living in a hotel that comes from his tax dollars, there are obviously a number of doubts about whether it is really his job to contribute to our well-being in such a volume. I have only said this because I would like to make it clear to you that, over the next seven years, compliance with and enforcement of the Public Procurement Directive will be tightened and strengthened and, on the other hand, the European institutions and institutions whose purpose is to follow the resources provided by the taxpayers of the European Union will be strengthened. And there's another problem. Obviously, the budget of the European Union as an organisation, the Commission's budget, is also scarce in terms of tasks and objectives. Therefore, there is also a major debate within the European Commission on whether these regional development funds will deliver the expected results. So when you negotiate with EU bureaucrats, they say in the corridor in the small talk that, of course, they love Hungary and Hungarians very much, but let us understand that their job is to carefully control the spending of money. So there is such a gift and, on the other hand, there is also a domestic gift as regards the scale of development resources. Take a look at the budget for the last seven years and look at the budget plan that the Ministry of Economy has to attach to the budget proposal for the European Commission. It is clear from that that if the funds provided by the European Union were to be withdrawn from the Hungarian budget, they would not be able to do so despite the current economic growth, despite our payments, and therefore, despite the amounts paid to the European Union, there would not be such conditions for development. There is no doubt that we are no longer small contributors to the European Union, so there is also a deposit from the Hungarian taxpayers' forint, but our deposit is still much less than the amount we receive. Obviously, this is the source that we can turn to development. I would not go into a detailed agreement with President Barroso last September, which is about 60 percent of the resources going to economic development, 40 percent going to human and real infrastructure. It is a very good time to discuss the Public Procurement Act, given the fact that the experience of a seven-year cycle can be completed, and in opening a seven-year new cycle, we must in any case formulate a new institutional system and new rules of play. Now there is another section of the proposal, which is why we are proposing to the Parliament for consideration the government's presentation, and that is that the government is determined to try to reduce the state bureaucracy that has been operating fantastically and increasing for 30-40 years. I am not saying that this is a Don Quixote fight, but according to the OECD report published at the end of May, the share of public employment in the total workforce in Hungary is almost 20 per cent, which is not anything compared to the 13 per cent OECD average. This means that out of our 4 million 200 000 legally employed fellow citizens, 1 million state employees are obviously not the problem, because we also have to take care of these people with responsibility, but rather the amount of government bureaucracy and work that sometimes does not make life easier, but burdened people from birth to death. So the government is determined to take action to reduce bureaucracy. There are three points that can be clearly identified after negotiations with social partners. One of these points is the bureaucracy of the use of EU funds, which needs to be reduced. The other is the question of tax procedures. Parliament will accept it, Members of Parliament will accept how much tax we will pay in the coming year, but there will still be a great debate about how we will adopt it in the House of the country, according to the government's plans. We're a little far from the world of beer mat tax returns. According to the OECD report, it is an explicit disadvantage for Hungarian businesses and it is particularly harmful for the business environment to see how much tax returns and tax bureaucracy are to be dealt with by a more serious company. There are quite shocking figures as to how many hours you have to hire and how many hours you have to hire employees to do a company's tax return, and this is a competitive disadvantage for Hungary in the business environment and efficiency. There are alarming data. The bureaucracy in the tax procedure must therefore be touched. The third area is construction. So the bureaucracy of the European Union's public procurement resources, of course, as I have just said, is the tax procedure and the construction sector, which we are going to pull out in any way, and this year we will make a number of proposals for Parliament to reduce bureaucracy. This process is not understandable in a world where the digital state and electronic administration will be the most important in public procurement as well. The European Commission has taken two decisions. One is the need to introduce the new EU Public Procurement Directive by 2016 and to have electronic public procurement in all Member States by 2018. Hungary is striving to introduce the new Public Procurement Directive on 1 November 2015, and I would like my colleagues to be much more pessimistic this year, and at the latest in the first half of next year electronic public procurement should be introduced. Electronic public procurement will solve the public's problem, solve the question of accountability, retrievability, transparency, as all data will be recorded, all wrist movements will be recorded, all paper exchanges made or not made will be recorded. So the kind of craftsmanship that may have occurred in a public procurement procedure in the last ten years - I do not say it has occurred; it may have happened - this kind of Czechoslovak craftsmanship is, in my opinion, excluded by electronic administration. I didn't want to hurt anyone's sensitivity. [[István Apáti intervenes. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I've drawn the concept from the online media, and I apologize; I'll try to correct it in the transcript, in the minutes. [[Defiance.]] According to the house rules, every MP has the right to do so, if I remember correctly. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is appreciated by the socialists.]] Well, I would like to continue, if I may, fellow Members. There is no doubt that since we have spent European Union funds, the European Commission has been signalling every year about the functioning of the European Union's public procurement institution system in Hungary. There are always two branches of this signal. One is that Hungary enforces the adoption of EU directives in a flawless manner. [[13.40]] So today in Hungary there is a system of public procurement rules and institutions that fully comply with European Union law, but the last ten years of practical application have not been a year when criticism has not been formulated. I'm just saying this because we have plenty of lessons to learn about what we need to change. I would like to point out that we will bring here the proposal of the Public Procurement Act after a wide range of social consultation, some two years of preparatory work. Following a number of comments and citizens' initiatives from the Architect Chamber, the Chamber of Engineers, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Hungarian Society of International Enterprises and, as I have just mentioned, the proposal is presented to the Parliament, whose main objective is to ensure economic growth by means of a simple, transparent, competitive public procurement law, which, of course, represents patriotic values. Why have I pushed for what I have said so far about development money, the OECD report, transparency and bureaucracy? Because from these parts we can gain a competitive advantage that could be an economic growth condition for Hungary. We have exhausted many competitive advantages, I think, over the past four years. Our numbers and the country's economic perception have improved for a reason, but there are also opportunities for competitiveness in the bureaucracy, in the business environment, in the Public Procurement Act, which, in the concordant opinion of all economists, can increase the country's economic space. I think it is very important that the recovery of the economy should apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. If I am talking about European Union funds or domestic resources, then it is also a very important goal of the budget and the spending of European Union funds that the money that you decide will be spent by the executive authority in Hungary should, if possible, be transferred to Hungarian businesses. I have never heard a speech from Parliament, apart from one or two subtropical remarks, which would challenge the legitimacy of the need to support the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in Hungary today and to support the Hungarian corporate sector. There has been no debate in this Parliament. By technical means, the European Union has designated borders to try to achieve this following a long conciliation process, i.e. after consulting entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. So what I can tell you is that, if the proposal is adopted, businesses, Hungarian businesses, will have more opportunities. I find it alarming that concentration studies which have only partially been published about how much foreign companies in the field of building or under construction have received from European Union funds in Hungary over the last seven years. Two thirds of the construction and construction were awarded to foreign companies, i.e. companies owned abroad, despite the various efforts of the government in Hungary. This is fully true of road construction over the last seven years, and it is in place in the various sectors of underground construction and in the building of buildings. Of course, this trend may not be broken by the European Directive, because they have no illusions about the European Commission, the very influential economic groups mentioned above, large companies are following the resources of the European Union, and they will also clearly enforce their criteria and values in the spirit of the fundamental rights of the European Union as regards the free movement of capital, discrimination neutrality and the prohibition of competition. So it is very difficult to find the thin field where you apply mandatory European law, but at the same time, as a patriot, you are also trying to help your country and your country by putting small and medium-sized enterprises in a position, partly because our aim is not to transfer this money only to the country, but our goal is to keep this money in the country and to make use of it here. I would also like to say that the European Commission has acknowledged that the aim of the law is to increase competition, increase transparency, simplify procedures, reduce administrative burden and administrative burden. I would like to say to this House, in the spirit of expozee, that we will put the public procurement law and the institutional system on a completely new footing. This means that transparency will be much more significant, competition will increase, competition will increase, quality-based selection criteria will prevail, simplification, acceleration, reduction of administrative burden, introduction of electronic communications in public procurement and support for small and medium-sized enterprises are our main objectives. I'd like to make a few specific calls, not to waste your time, but to call you after all. The first thing is simplification, reducing administrative burdens and speeding up procedures. Firstly, the proposer intends to introduce the principle of declaration. The principle of declaration means that candidates participating in a tender for public procurement have enough to declare that the different conditions have been met and that only the successful tenderer has to formally document what it claims. Today, in Hungary, the current rule is that a public procurement firm must obtain certificates other than disaster control in support of its claim from the tax authority, the environmental authority and I could list them. We'll get them out of this. We accept their declaration and the declarant will have to obtain the certificates before he receives the grant contract. This significantly shortens time, significantly shortens costs and significantly reduces bureaucratic requirements imposed on applicants. I consider this a very important small step. Make no mistake, the Public Procurement Act will not cause as much social policy excitement in this House as the debate of the Fundamental Law. It is likely that there will, of course, be a lot of criticism in the procurement practice of the last four or last seven years, but we are talking about redefining details that do have translation points, and such a part is the conditions under which applications can be applied. Yes, if a person is applying, his statement must be accepted by the applicant. I would also like to say that e-procurement will also be a service, because the procurement documentation can be requested electronically. So by reducing the total written format, by reducing costs, we will increase transparency and increase efficiency. I would like to say that we will broaden the scope of information and documents that will be made public. The public procurement database shall be published on the website of the Public Procurement Authority and shall include data which have not been previously required. The economic secret, the circle of business secrets, will be radically narrowed down by the bill. So business secrets and economic secrets cannot be protested in the same volume as before. We will also introduce the institution of online publication, and I would like to reassure my fellow Members who are now joining the debate, that the parts that have not been heard so far would have been of maximum satisfaction - if they had heard - to their needs and their ideas; it is for my fellow Member Schiffer. It is likely that what I have said will not affect your opinion, which is probably already described. [[Defiance.]] I'm really sorry, but I'm trying. [[Dr. András Schiffer presents a document. Defiance.]] "I say so," I say, "but I am trying to achieve the regulatory goal of the expoze, to convince my fellow Members. To give an example of how there will be a major change and a major debate, the overall aim of the proposal is to bring out the most advantageous, economically advantageous tender for the author of the tendering procedure, the lowest price can only be the most important and decisive criterion in exceptional cases. This means that the Public Procurement Directive favours the use of life-cycles, sustainability of the project, efficiency of the completed building, environmental aspects, capacity to innovate, the social situation of employees such as local employees, multiple disadvantaged employees, socially difficult workers with reduced working capacity, as well as the cost of maintenance. So it will open up the possibility of a much more mature public tender, a more thorough intervention, a more rational use of public funds, because overall we want to switch to quality-based procurement rather than price-based. This will generate a great debate, and make no mistake, it will generate a great debate. However, I would like to draw your attention to the State Audit Office's reports on the practice of spending European Union funds over the last seven years, in the framework of a number of concrete programmes and a number of general comments, which concern the fact that the Public Procurement Act does not allow consideration of the number of local workers the entrepreneur has. It does not allow, unlike other countries, for example Germany, the most advantageous economic offer to be accepted, taking into account, for example, sustainability, environmental aspects and climate aspects. So if we focus on the price, there will be a number of bad decisions in the next seven years, as in the seven years left behind, and after the project has been handed over, the maintenance costs will not be considered, the guarantee liability system of the whole has not been properly developed. I would like to say that the rapporteur intends to take a decisive step for small and medium-sized enterprises when he says that, as a reference, a maximum of 75% of the estimated value should be accepted. In Hungary, small and medium-sized enterprises have been excluded from the tender in the last ten years by issuing the reference value to twice and three times the tendered object, the tendered product, service or works. [[13.50]] In a procurement procedure of HUF 1 billion or HUF 500 million, several hundred percent of references were expected, while a local entrepreneur would be in a position to accept, say, the 75 percent - all set on the basis of a Western sample and the number agreed with the Chamber of Industry and Commerce - reference level. If a person wants to participate in a school building of 500 million or a school building of HUF 1 billion as a local entrepreneur, 75 percent of the investment is sufficient as a reference. This can be a real step forward, especially by taking into account technically equivalent references, so we will definitely open up a favourable position for them, and here we are talking about the size of the company's turnover at a maximum of the estimated value. So it's not that we deliberately only allow a large company to apply because we ask for such extra references. In many cases, opposition parties have asked us to account for extra special references to certain public procurements, or the extra requirements imposed on the company to buy them, which would be over-insurance, the debate is a legitimate debate on whether now it will exclude groups or put groups in a position. I consider it a huge breakthrough if the Parliament accepts that the 75 percent reference is sufficient for the procurement procedure and that the estimated amount should be, for example, the amount issued by the contracting authority in the case of economic operators against the contracting authority. It is a matter of responsibility for the performance of the contract. Public procurement is one thing, but what happens after the procurement is awarded and then implemented. We would like to introduce the possibility of official control by the bill in the case of the holding of contracts, i.e. liability for the performance of contracts. The criticisms which were criticisms of the observance of the winning contract announced by the public procurement must also be considered by the legislator and the national author, and the responsibility for the performance of the contract must be checked by a central authority. The appeal procedure will remain in the form approved by the European Commission in accordance with the main rule of the Public Procurement Decision Committee, who will, however, assess the complaints received in a shorter time. On a national basis, only one court will be designated with exclusive competence to review the remedies. I have already told you that the single electronic central procurement system, which would be supervised by the Public Procurement Authority, placed under the Parliament by the executive authority and the legislative authority, will provide assistance through a single electronic central system under the supervision of the Public Procurement Authority in the next period. We're here in the budget law debate, which is why we're here. There is a 30-minute opportunity to speak twice. The budgetary law must be amended because of the current public procurement thresholds, which will be valid this year due to the entry into force of the Treaty on 1 November. So, according to our plans, this year's announcements will be in line with the new Public Procurement Act, so it is also necessary to amend the 2015 Budget Act, which includes in detail the public procurement thresholds. Before I finish, I would like to remind you once again of the following measures, which, in my opinion, constitute a breakthrough in public procurement, which... [[Dr. András Schiffer takes a seat in the benches of Fidesz. Dr. István Józsa: Did you sit in the Fidesz?]] Well, it's an attractive place. [[Defiance.]] where our fellow Member is stationed. In the system of national cooperation, this is perfectly possible, even with Népszabadság in hand. With regard to the Public Procurement Act, I would therefore like to confirm that transparency and transparency are significantly increasing. There are Commission initiatives which, as an example, require electronic publicity of all documents of all applicants. Therefore, it is not a right of access for the successful tenderer or a right of access to the winning tenderer, and the European Commission requires electronic publicity of all documents of all applicants. This will result in a radical change in the procurement procedure. What I can tell you about the deadlines is that we intend to reduce the deadline by 20-50 percent. In the case of open procedures, from 45 to 35 days or up to 15 days previously. Shorter criticism, less certification will apply. We introduce the principle of declaration, which only the winner has a valid meaning. In the case of normative suitability, the reference maximum shall be 75 per cent of the estimated value and the turnover shall be up to 100 per cent of the estimated value of the investment. Therefore, a higher turnover or a higher reference may not be required. There is no legal limit at the moment, I note that this is, in my view, one of the details of the Public Procurement Act that has substantially influenced the market over the last ten years. Simplification of remedies. Once again, a central court will be the appeal, and the main rule is that this central court will proceed in a court of law without trial according to our plans. Free electronic procurement documentation. Everything is paid today, and everything is done on paper. Full introduction of e-procurement in 16 at the latest. The relaxation of safeguards rules, which will also be a significant change. Full publicity, increasing transparency, greater competition, public disclosure based on principles. There will be a three-offer procedure, as follows. In the case of goods and services, we lower the threshold that was 25-60 and 100-150 million forints in the past. I would like to tell you that in the case of construction up to HUF 150 million, three invitations were enough, and in the case of 25 million HUF service, three invitations were enough. Now we are going to lower this threshold, which means that three-invitation procedures are possible for works up to 100 million and three-invitation procedures are available for 18 million forints. We will establish a simplified new national procedure for services between 18 and 60 million HUF. There will also be a simplified new national procedure for works at HUF 100 and HUF 500 million. So this will no longer be restricted by three offers, but will be subject to a public procurement law. This will significantly influence local authorities in public spending over the next period. Over HUF 60 million, there will be a public procurement procedure in the EU, between HUF 500 million and HUF 1.5 billion, and over HUF 1 billion, there will be public procurement in the EU. I would like to remind you that we want a real value-based public spending, which is about quality being the most important aspect of selection. The winning tender can be selected on the basis of the best value for money criteria. There is currently a free choice where there is basically price competition. Evaluating the life cycle and environmental protection, innovation, social aspects, location, so local location can be a matter of particular criticism. There are much stricter and more detailed conflict of interest rules and we will limit the possibility of being classified as business secrets. Dear Parliament, Our plan is that the debate will now be opened during the spring session, and we will not end this. For reconciliations, for the negotiation of amendments and concepts and concepts, the factions are ready for the government, either in the Parliament or in the Commission's working phase. During the autumn session, we would like to adopt the law in September-October and we would like to bring it into force on 1 November. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to stress once again that the parts that you have challenged and the proposals that you have made can only change or be adopted if the European Commission approves this, given that in 2004 a significant part of Hungary's sovereignty was abandoned in connection with the establishment of public procurement rules. I do not want to simplify it in such a way that there will be a public procurement rule in Hungary that the European Commission will impose, but almost. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Apáti: The end was very honest! Dr. István Józsa: Don't be so afraid of that!]]
u2015-06-09-77	Dear Parliament, On behalf of Vice-President Latorcai, who has been leading the meeting so far, thank you very much, Minister. I salute the congressional ladies and gentlemen. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Congressman Gyula Vantara [[Dr. István Józsa: Go Peaceful!]] Head speaker for the Fidesz Group. [[14.00]]
u2015-06-09-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4849 amending the Law on Public Procurement. We are discussing bill number 1. Why is there a need to adopt a new public procurement law? - that was in the expo. One of the reasons why the European Commission has committed itself to the Government in its partnership agreement for the 2014-20 development cycle. The European Union's 2014 work programme ANNEX II On 26 October, it adopted three new directives on public procurement, a comprehensive reform of EU public procurement law, the inclusion of which will greatly increase transparency in the Hungarian legal order. With regard to the law, as has been said earlier, the Chamber of Industry, the Chamber of Engineers, the Chamber of Architects, and a number of proposals have been incorporated into the law. In addition to the guidelines governing classic public procurement and governing the procurement of public services, the Directive governing concession contracts appears in the bill. The old Directive should continue to apply to public procurement remedies. The main rule is that the new public procurement directives should be transposed into national law by 18 April 2016 and, for central purchasing bodies, by 18 April 2017 and by 18 October 2018 for all contracting entities. The EU regulation of previous years has been set up to create a single internal market between EU Member States in the field of public procurement, i.e. the benefits of competition in the market will be undisturbed, so that EU businesses have an equal chance of accessing other Member States' procurements. However, the aim has now come to the fore, and this is a very important and important goal that public procurement should promote various strategic objectives. In this way, Member States should be able to make important socio-economic objectives, such as innovation, social objectives and environmental protection, an integral part of public procurement policy. Given that a significant proportion of public procurement is carried out using EU funds, the effective and orderly conduct of public procurement is also a prerequisite for the proper use of EU funds. The new law also includes the rules on concession procedures. What is new is the gradual introduction of e-procurement, the detailed rules of which will be drawn up by the government in a regulation. The bill ensures with more detailed and clear rules than the current one that the documents declared by economic operators as business secrets do indeed contain only information the disclosure of which could cause damage to the economic operator's business activities. Tenderers must bid responsibly in the course of the procurement procedure, under conditions which they are able to fulfil their contractual obligations. In the future, they cannot expect to get rid of their commitments to obtain the contract with a subsequent amendment of the contract. The bill sets out grounds for exclusion, in particular the requirement to exclude offshore organisations [[Speaking to Dr. András Schiffer:]] I'm here to remind you of Mr. Schiffer's dance and decency teacher. There will be new grounds for exclusion when the contracting authority is able to demonstrate that a firm has attempted to unduly influence the contracting authority's decision-making process or has sought confidential information that gives it undue advantages. The bill places greater emphasis on requiring careful preparation of public procurement and lays down more detailed requirements for determining the estimated value. As regards the technical preparation of works, it provides that the procedure can only be initiated with plans meeting the requirements laid down in the separate legislation. When regulating the assessment criteria, the bill requires contracting entities to give preference to tenderers whose products or services represent qualitatively added value compared to otherwise cheaper but in some respects worse products, or to include innovative solutions. For example, there is a greater chance of winning a building that may be much more expensive, but the building - and here the law introduces a new concept - will be cheaper to operate on the basis of life-cycle costs. Unfortunately, in the current practice, there was little chance of doing so, as 90 percent of public procurement was based on price. The already mentioned concept of technical equivalence is introduced, which means that the reference is set at 75 per cent of the technical quantity requested, so if the call is to build a hospital of 10 thousand square metres, it is enough for the bidders to have a reference from a building of 7500 square metres, and it is also not a problem if it is not a hospital, but, for example, a residential park. In order to prevent over-pricing, the bill allows the contracting authority to determine in advance an amount for which a price exceeding the price or a bid containing the cost will be declared invalid in the course of the criticism. In addition, the time limits for bidding will be reduced. For example, from 40 days to 35 days in an open procedure, from 35 days in the case of electronic submission to 30 days in the event of exceptional urgency, an accelerated open procedure will be applied with a 15-day deadline. In view of the above, the new Public Procurement Act therefore pursues the following objectives: ensuring transparency in public procurement, simplifying procedures, speeding up procedures, reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, achieving the most socially-economically optimal procurement results, promoting successful participation of small and medium-sized enterprises and greater competition. Since the new Public Procurement Act will enter into force from 1 November this year, the applicability of the Act requires the amendment of the provisions of this year's Finance Act containing the public procurement thresholds. For this reason, the government submitted the two laws at the same time on 19 May, and this is why we can negotiate these two legislative proposals together today. In view of the above comments, I would like to ask you with respect to support the bill, while thanking you for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-09-79	Thank you, Congressman Vantara. I now give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Before talking about the law on public procurement, it is worth a brief review of the state of public procurement and the use of domestic public funds. The main aim of the domestic development policy was to ensure that Hungary is able, as far as possible, to fully call off the EU grants granted until 2013. However, the rationality and real economic impact of the investments thus made have been reduced, and only the money paid was important. During the previous government cycle, the institutional system was significantly redesigned and payments stopped several times and therefore more and more timetables had to be set. In 2014, HUF 1863 billion was paid, and it is planned that in 2015 we would have to draw 6.5 percent of Hungarian GDP and HUF 2236 billion in order to avoid loss of funds. [[14.10]] In order to spend this amount of money as quickly as possible, the government thought of overpriced giant projects instead of smaller tenders. The analysis of the Hungarian economy published by the European Commission says that an uncertain regulatory environment is one of the biggest challenges in improving the business environment. According to the Commission, legislation continues to be characterised by a marked lack of transparency and regular consultation with stakeholders. According to the Commission, corruption affects government decisions and public procurement remains a cause for concern. Two months ago, the European Commission stated that the selection exercise was inadequate, with which the National Development Agency selected the winning EU development proposals between 2007 and 2014. Therefore, the operational programme for economic development is suspended, which concerns thousands of applications. The three sub-programmes concerned are innovation proposals, economic development and the development of business infrastructure. After spending nearly 700 billion forints, you will have to pay a penalty, which is expected to be about 10 percent. Brussels has also found serious errors in other programmes, which concern the regular application for specific firms. The Commission has been criticising the Hungarian public procurement system for a long time, including the fact that very often the range of candidates that can start up is unduly limited. A December report by the Commission on Hungarian public procurement practices says: "The large public investments unduly limit the number of people who can start the tenders, there is no real competition for the works, the access to EU funds is concentrated in only a few companies. As a result, investments are much more expensive than those in other countries with similar volumes of construction. This method is typically about how the publishers define the terms specifically tailored to the company. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Of the 55 applications that were reviewed in November, 16 failed. In half of the cases, a fine was imposed in the EU language, with a total value of more than EUR 13 million, i.e. nearly HUF 4 billion. In 8 of the 16 failed applications, the Hungarian government has not yet paid the winners, only selected them, but if they were to pay, they would still have to be punished. The objections included - just to mention a few - a software update costing forty-four times as much; calls for applications for the Public Machine; a renewal application for the Csolnoky Ferenc Hospital in Veszprém; a 4.1 billion office furniture tender issued to the Administration and Justice Office, after which the European Commission imposed a penalty of HUF 1.6 billion; a HUF 77.5 million educational programme awarded to the Budapest College of Communication; and an excavation of four times in the section avoiding Enese on main road 85. And you could add it to the list. The 16 applications have all failed for similar reasons in the past period. The comments included amazing references, too tight deadlines and subsequently adjusted values. One in three tenders proved irregular. Out of the 55 projects they examined, 20 were completed and all paid for. In 11 of the 20 investments, the planned costs were exceeded by at least 15 percent, but so that the average overspend was 46 percent. Dear Parliament, In a well-functioning economy, public procurement is very important, and the law defines how to apply for work or service applicants. The domestic legal environment for public procurement is basically in line with EU directives, but there have been serious problems with the application of law in recent years. The partnership agreement with the European Commission states that Hungary does not meet the requirements for the functioning of public procurement as a prerequisite for the use of EU funds and that measures should therefore be taken to ensure that the public procurement system functions properly. One of the conditions for the adoption of the new operational programmes in Brussels was the renewal of public procurement rules. Last November, the government announced that a new public procurement law would be created, which would allow for faster, simpler and more legal procedures to be carried out. The draft legislation on public procurement refers to the promotion of strategic objectives, and it is an important consideration that a significant proportion of public procurement is achieved by using EU funds - an average of approximately HUF 1300 billion per year, which was HUF 2300 billion last year and the year before that, so it must be in line with three EU directives adopted in 2014. By 18 April 2016 at the latest, EU Member States shall transpose the new EU public procurement directives into their legal order by 18 April 2017 for centralised contracting entities and by 18 October 2018 for all contracting entities. In line with the EU Directive, the Hungarian legislative proposal would further simplify procedures and reduce administrative burdens. In particular, tenderers should be able to make a declaration in order to verify their suitability, only the winner will have to submit the necessary certificates issued by the authorities or third parties. Free electronic tender documentation, a reference value of 75 per cent of the procurement, or proof of the turnover of the subject-matter of the procurement may be requested from the tenderer in the future, the requirement of technical equivalence should also be enforced among the references. Without real social coordination, the new public procurement bill presented to Parliament will not help to increase competition, will not help more proposals to come to calls or to increase the number of winners and thus make public procurement more effective. The new legislation will reduce the time limits for bidding, for example for the open procedure, to 35 days, which may be shortened to 30 days in the case of electronic submission, and, exceptionally and in the case of urgency, to an accelerated procedure with a 15-day bidding deadline. The proposal abolishes the lowest price that has been well established for decades and the best overall bid assessment. Instead of offering the lowest price, they encourage the adoption of an economically, socially or environmentally advantageous offer. The relevant rules are difficult to interpret in the absence of administrative expertise, and we assume that the use of an economist expert will also be essential for their application, which will impose additional burdens on the contracting authority. Nor does the proposal show the difference between the lowest price and the lowest cost. The application of the lowest price criterion is conditional, which, in our view, is incomprehensible. Moreover, in some cases this assessment criterion has been completely excluded. In our view, this violates the principle of efficient and responsible public spending. We also object to the aspect of the best value for money ratio to be used as the main rule, since it takes into account basically quality, environmental and social aspects, which, based on experience so far, can lead to abuse and thus increase the risk of corruption. We consider the contested provisions to be fundamentally inconsiderate and totally unjustified. Public contracts could be amended without restrictions in the event of minor changes and if the value of the amendment was below the EU thresholds and 5% of the original value of service and supply contracts and 10% of the original value of works. It is proposed to provide for strict monitoring and verification of the fulfilment of the requirements assessed in the course of the tender to the contracting authority, with strict penalties in case of failure. However, according to the Commission, the proposed law on public procurement also leaves too many loopholes. Experts in public procurement are also of the opinion that the law is of concern on several points. For example, when identifying the grounds for exclusion, it almost empowers the publishers to further rule out whomever they want. The punishment for attempting to influence or obtain information raises a number of questions. If the court does not establish a criminal offence, then how can we be sure that the experiment has been carried out; how can an experiment be defined at all; how can it be supported by something that one party will obviously dispute? It's not clear what you're trying to find out. With this step, the applicant may exclude an applicant for infringement of the competition law even if there is no official judgment. Which means the suspicion will be enough to disqualify him. [[14.20]] A new legal institution, self-cleaning, appears in the law. That is, anyone who feels excluded for something that does not affect the current tender can get a chance to do so. However, it can also be said that the new Public Procurement Act provides an opportunity to exclude someone easily and to take back an excluded person, whether on a subjective basis. Therefore, many of the complex rules can be overruled if the public body which issued the tender or the Public Procurement Authority really wants to do so. The provision is of preeminent concern as a result of its unregulated nature. The main concern, however, in our view, is that the application of the contested provision may, where appropriate, override a final decision by an authority or court, which clearly violates the principle of legal certainty. The legal impact on judicial judgments is a fundamental instrument of legal certainty protected by the Constitution, thus ensuring that the case is definitively closed and that it is avoided that different judgments are made in the same case. Final court findings must be accepted as a fact by all; this is the most important effect of the legal force. On the other hand, the proposal delegates powers to the Authority to override final judgments or final decisions and to use an unregulated procedure. In our view, this is a total breach of legal certainty. In our view, the institution of self-cleaning is completely unjustified, its introduction would not increase competition at all in the light of a clearly defined range of stakeholders or their number. However, these are not the only problems with the bill. In addition to the scope of assessment and suitability, we find difficult to interpret rules and concepts, which, for example, cause problems in the preparation of the procedure and in the relationship between prior market consultation. As a result, it is not clear whether the party involved in the preparation of the procedure is excluded as a tenderer. Although the proposed regulation seeks to limit the possibility for tenderers to retain data on business secrets and to slightly improve the availability of public data on public procurement, the draft would not, overall, make procurement procedures as transparent as possible. The possibility of a public procurement database would not improve so much that it would be possible to simply check which companies win public funds. The practice of the KBT has been fighting for years because of the need to be sufficiently unregulated. handling and deciding disputes relating to the assessment of the business secret in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. In view of this, it was timely to review the rules on business secrecy. The conceptual clarifications and amendments made in the context of the business secret, the setting of the obligation to state reasons, in our view, are justified, although there are still regulatory shortcomings, since the proposal does not specify how the contracting authority should act if the justification provided for in paragraph 1 is not attached or considered appropriate; how, moreover, the contracting authority should act if it has conducted the deficiency procedure in accordance with paragraph 4 but considers that the scope of the business secret remains inadequate. In view of this, the clarifications and amendments made in the context of the protection of business secrets are in vain, since the establishment of the rules for their application remains a burden of case law, which, in our view, violates the principle of legal certainty, given the fact that there is currently no uniform case law on the assessment of business secrets and that this is not expected to develop in the future. Most of all, however, the regulation of access to the file is of concern. The right of access to the file and, as such, the right of appeal are still empty, since, according to the relevant case law, there is no override of the classification as a business secret within the competence of the contracting authority. Thus, the whole offer can be a business secret, and therefore no material access to the file can be carried out. The proposal now further restricts the right to access the file by stating that it is not possible to fully review the offer or request of another economic operator for access. The applicant for access to the file shall indicate in what part of the alleged specific infringement he intends to access the offer or request to participate. It is noted that the alleged specific infringement is conceptually excluded, since a specific infringement can only be lodged after the file has been examined, since it is only possible to assume so far. The proposal justifies the contested amendment by stating that the contracting authority is responsible for the criticism and not for the competitor. Unfortunately, experience has shown that contracting authorities are often partial, and this provision increases the risk of even less corruption. The restriction of the right of access to the file in this way will, in particular, vacate the right of appeal as a constitutional principle. In recent years, it has often criticized so-called three-offer buys, not only would they not end, but it would extend them directly. In the case of the so-called three-invitation procedure, we find it objectionable that the standard of competence should not be required. This violates the principle of efficient public spending and responsible management and affects corruption. The right of appeal is limited by the five-day contract moratorium, which was ten in the past, and the five-day review period, which was also ten in the past, is therefore legitimately objectionable. As regards the regulation of the national procedure, the proposal explained that the aim of the amendment was to reduce the administrative burden on SMEs. We do not see how this objective is achieved, because as a result of the amendment, tenderers must also monitor the Authority's website in addition to the Public Procurement Notice, which has a double task. In our view, in the absence of time and personnel capacity, the range of bidders involved in the objective will not be able to monitor the Authority's website in addition to the notification. It is also a double task on the part of the stakeholders that it is not enough to make an offer, but it is also necessary to submit a preliminary application and an interest. Moreover, the information provided under the proposal is not for a period of 20-30 days, as is usually a notice, but it may also be available for four working days, which also affects the fact that interested parties are aware of it. In our view, this is particularly conducive to corruption, because if no one is interested in the above-mentioned very short notice because, for example, they do not browse the public authority's website every day, the contracting authority sends the invitation to initiate the procedure to those whom it would like, contrary to previous rules, on the basis of which, taking into account a notice published in the notification for at least 20 days, anyone may have been able to participate in the procedure. In the light of the draft, it is not possible to expect a reduction in the use of closed or non-competitive public procurement in Hungary for reasons of national security. This is a problem because in recent years the government has preferred to use this procurement technique, in many cases without having any real national security risk. Dear Parliament, In addition to the problems presented so far, the draft still has a number of smaller or bigger flaws. We hope that this will improve during the parliamentary debate, because Brussels expects the Hungarian government to redefine public procurement in order to properly spend EU funds. Transparency International Hungary has already drawn attention on several occasions to the serious corruption risks of public procurement in Hungary. It pointed out that the corruption risks associated with the management and use of Hungarian and EU funds are caused by public procurement regulation itself and by insufficient implementation of weak rules. Public procurement procedures that formally comply with the rules are also not free from corruption. Corruption in the field of public procurement appears at several levels, on the one hand the regulation itself allows for a long and generous range of exceptions to the three tender procedures without real competition and the procurement procedure. The European Union has also raised its voice against public procurement corruption. First in 2014, the European Commission's report against corruption found that in Hungary almost half of public procurement is offered by a single company, i.e. a single player competition. The 2015 European Union country report for Hungary also pointed out that the lack of competition and transparency in Hungary remains a major concern in the field of public procurement, close contractual relations between business and the political elite. A serious risk of corruption is the lack of funding for political parties and regulation of public procurement. These rules are important because a law alone is not enough, the formal nature of the application of the law, the lack of strict control, makes a strong contribution to maintaining the current corrupt system. [[14.30]] In view of the judgments of the Hungarian courts, there has been no corruption in Hungary since 2009, at least in connection with public procurement. The investigation considers that the detection rate of the Hungarian authorities is zero. The current form of the proposal destroys democratic procurement processes and distorts competition in the market. More than individual economic performance, investment value, public procurement criticism, political and power influence will be assessed, and public spending will not be limited. Therefore, in this form, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group disagrees with and does not support the bill. The bill is closely linked to the amendment of the law on Hungary's central budget for 2015. The proposal is of a technical nature, as it puts the text of the new Public Procurement Bill into the current budget. In the case of national procedural arrangements, the draft does not otherwise change the thresholds. From a legislative point of view, this government attitude is incomprehensible. The new public procurement law has not yet been adopted, yet it is almost as a fact that the planned new rules are being introduced into this year's budget. All of this is so that the text of the norm is flexible and a number of amendments are expected. The MSZP also does not support the adoption of this bill. While these are mainly technical amendments, the present legislative behaviour of the Government must be clearly rejected. Not to mention that they intend to adopt the 2016 budget in advance and as early as June this year, even the 2015 budget had to be amended twice within one month. There is no planning, no predictability, which makes the government's vision of positive market receptions for the early adoption of next year's budget very doubtful. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-81	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Tóth. The lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Imre Vejkey, is next.
u2015-06-09-82	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 26 February 2014, the EU legislature adopted three new public procurement directives published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 March 2014. The new public procurement directives should be transposed by each EU Member State, including our country's main rule, by 18 April 2016 at the latest, by 18 April 2017 for central purchasing bodies and by 18 October 2018 for all contracting entities in its own Member State law. With the adoption of three new public procurement directives of the European Union, the EU has implemented a comprehensive reform of public procurement law by transforming the Directives on the basis of which Directive 2004/18/EC on procurement of classic contracting entities was replaced by Directive 2014/24/EU; Directive 2004/17/EC on public procurement of public services was replaced by Directive 2014/25/EU; Directive 2014/23/EU on concession contracts is published as a new directive; whereas the provisions of Directives 89/665/EEC and 92/13/EEC, as amended by Directive 2007/66/EC, continue to apply to public procurement remedies. Ladies and Gentlemen, Procurement by means of public procurement is becoming increasingly important for the national economy and procurement procedures also play a prominent role in the use of EU funds. The aim of the bill is to put the implementation of national public procurement on a new basis by reviewing the detailed rules on public procurement procedures, the legal environment for public procurement and the institutional system for public procurement and updating the relevant rules, thereby contributing to the achievement of socially and economically beneficial public procurement and the wider use of EU funding. The bill establishes a new legislative and institutional environment for public procurement in particular in the following areas and changes the existing procurement provisions. The purpose of the proposed legislation is to simplify, speed up public procurement procedures and reduce administrative burdens, including proper preparation of public procurement procedures; reduction of time limits for tenders and participation; reduction of free, electronically accessible procurement documentation in all procedures; in the case of references, a standard competence requirement of 75 per cent of the estimated value of procurement, corresponding to the estimated value of procurement, taking into account the principle of technical equivalence in the demonstration of technical competence, the deletion of mandatory competence testing, the principle of declaration and, in the case of certificates, only the prospective winner should submit certificates. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the above, the bill aims to implement a new approach to the evaluation of offers, in order to give priority to job creation and economic development; the acquisition of value-added goods and services should indirectly help to strengthen companies offering such goods or services. It aims to enforce the principle of quality selection and to prioritise the most economically and socially advantageous offer as an evaluation criterion; it also aims to take into account life cycle costs, together with the use of energy throughout life. In order to facilitate the employment of people with disabilities through public procurement, it also intends to take into account social objectives in the evaluation of offers. The bill seeks to enforce more flexible but stricter rules than EU directives on the amendment of public contracts, while increasing liability for the performance of the contract and at the same time controlling the performance of the contracts. In essence, the rules of the review procedure do not change, but, in order to make it easier to access remedies, the appeal fee would be reduced for smaller purchases and redress fees would be set up in a band. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill aims to transpose the provisions of the classic, public service and concession directives and the review directives into a code. The transposition of the new public procurement directives would take place in two stages. Taking into account the longer time needed for the establishment of an electronic public procurement system provided for by the State and for the preparation of economic operators, the bill provides for the entry into force of provisions on electronic communication in public procurement and at a later date in accordance with the rules of the Directive. [[14.40]] Implementing rules will be drawn up by means of a regulation on the detailed rules for electronic communications and certain issues relating to the operation of the electronic procurement system. The bill provides a new basis for the management of defence-security purchases. In the case of procurement included in the draft, the draft provides for the creation of a separate law. The reason for this is that existing domestic law does not use the categories of EU law in the case of procurement for defence and security purposes and procurement which is not intended for this purpose but which is exempted from the scope of the Public Procurement Directive due to exceptional security risks. Security and security procurements are covered by a separate directive in EU legislation, which is Directive 2009/80/EC, which has been transposed into existing domestic law between two government regulations. The bill maintains that contracting entities are obliged to publish extensive information on public procurement in the public procurement database maintained by the Public Procurement Authority, including all contracts covered by the law. The bill regulates in more detail, given the experience of law enforcement over the past period, which data can not be declared by tenderers as business secrets in their offers. In particular, the public procurement rules do not aim to force economic operators to share information with their competitors which would adversely affect their business activities, but also to ensure that the use of public funds is transparent and verifiable and that the parties to the proceedings have the right to appeal. Ladies and Gentlemen, In accordance with the new rules on directives, the bill clarifies the rules on conflicts of interest, allowing prior consultations with market participants with guarantees. The bill enforces the principle that the principles of competition purity, transparency and equal treatment must apply not only in the process of contracting, but also at the full stage of the performance of the contract. In addition to the aspects of competition, however, the bill seeks to enforce the consequences of managing public funds more strongly than the provisions in force by declaring that the amendment of contracts should not be aimed at unduly accepting the risks to the successful tenderer. In order to ensure a more effective enforcement of the above requirements, the bill also grants the Public Procurement Authority the right to bring an action in the public interest in the event of non-compliance with the authority's powers of control in relation to contracts and in the event of non-compliance with the management of public funds. The bill opens up a significant contract award to public competition to a greater extent than is currently the case with regard to low value, but not negligible, domestic public procurement expenditure. The threshold below which contracting authorities may open their procurement procedures only through direct calls for specific economic operators is reduced, while at the same time simplifying the obligation of prior publication of contracts above this reduced threshold, which, in principle, would be achieved not by publication of a notice but by the publication of the main data on a simplified public procurement authority's website. The bill maintains the scope of the exclusions currently in place to ensure the cleanliness of public procurement, in particular the requirement to exclude offshore organisations. In addition, there are grounds for exclusion where, although the offences listed in the law are not established, the contracting authority can confirm that the economic operator has attempted to influence the contracting authority's decision-making process unlawfully or that the tenderer has sought to obtain confidential information which would give it undue advantages in the procurement procedure. Such an infringement would exclude the tenderer from any further procurement procedure with effect from three years. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill places great emphasis on requiring careful preparation of public procurement and lays down more detailed requirements for determining the estimated value, and, in the technical preparation of works, requires that the procedure can only be initiated with tender plans meeting the requirements laid down in separate legislation and, in cases covered by separate legislation, the contracting authority should also provide for design control and design management. On the basis of the new directive, the legislative proposal aims at transferring contracting authorities to the priority of qualitative selection in public procurement. When regulating the assessment criteria, the bill requires contracting entities to favour tenderers whose products or services represent qualitatively added value compared to otherwise cheaper but in some respects worse products, or to include innovative solutions. In order to achieve the above objectives, the bill provides that, exceptionally, it is only possible to select the successful tenderer on the basis of the lowest price if qualitative competition cannot play a role at all in view of the nature of the procurement concerned. In the field of engineering, architectural services and investment, the bill explicitly excludes the lowest price assessment. Ladies and Gentlemen, It can be concluded that the bill will make public procurement simpler and faster, and their transparency will also increase significantly. Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-83	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who talks about the pulpit. Thank you.
u2015-06-09-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The unsuspecting opposition representatives after Minister Lazarus' suggestion, sometimes manipulative exposé, might think that everything is okay here, that everyone should quickly tell theirs in the debate, and then we can check it out, we can vote in favour of this bill, whether it is up to four fifths, or in full agreement, because the procedures will be faster, simpler, more transparent and the cleanliness of competition will be restored. In comparison, I must say that I must inform you with a very difficult heart, because I would also like that to be the case, as I have just said, that there will be no real competition, no more transparency. It may be faster, I accept that, but the procedure will not be simplified in any way, so I could say that certain parts of it may be simpler than the current or, say, the 2003-2004 starting conditions, but now they put larger screws and larger complications in elsewhere. Firstly, I would like to mention the general critical comments that have been made on the public procurement system in the last nearly one and a half decades. Unfortunately, we know that due to the policies of the last quarter of a century or more than ten years, public procurement has become a brazen word in Hungary because of local, county or major political events, and we should be aware that it has become one of the synonyms of corruption. [[14.50]] I could also say that it may not be a coincidence that we use this term in the old Hungarian legal language for public transportation or public orders in the present age, because it has become the one that has, unfortunately, become characteristic of certain mayors and political leaders belonging to the ever-regulating governments and parties of government. This may have happened on the one hand because there has been and is a very close link between the economic and political elite, it does not matter whether it is a balliberal government or a government that enlists itself in the centre of the right, which considers itself national. One dog, another dog, we could say. Overpriced has become common, speaking of noble simplicity. Which would be possible, say, from 100 forints, often from 150 or 200 forints, sometimes it is even worse, and then there is plenty of it to be distributed back to the party, and there is plenty to fill private pockets, usually in politicians' pockets, which, unfortunately, could only be solved by secret service means, but to do so, there should be a variety of authorized bodies with public authority to do so, not to observe opposition representatives, especially those who are right-wingers, but to pursue crime and try to expose corruption. Although in the world of offshore companies, let's be honest, with a simple act, a wiretap is not necessarily possible in case of close surveillance. On the other hand, we also need to see that we will not make progress until then - and although this is what I intended to do at the end, but I think that is what I am saying at the beginning - we will not move forward until these reserves are left in the system, ladies and gentlemen. Whether it is specifically from budgetary sources, from Hungarian national sources, or from EU sources, or in part or in whole, from EU sources, if we leave in the tender procedure or in the preparation of the procedure, i.e. in the pre-procurement period, by overpricing, the reserves that can be allocated back to parties, individuals, anyone, we can make any public procurement law here, whether it is very clever, simplified or very administrative, very bureaucratic, we will not be able to cut off any head of the seven-headed dragon of corruption, as these supply lines remain long enough. One way to eliminate this could be by entrusting the drafting of guidelines and guidelines of a different nature not to the public procurement authority, but to the profession, whether the minister responsible for the sector or, most importantly, to professional organisations, in particular, but not only, let us say, the setting up of specific cost limits, cost limits beyond which public procurement cannot be planned for works. Of course, in view of the fact that sometimes in the case of procedures from the tender, we take into account the fact that there may be a great deal of time between the submission of the tender and its assessment and the conduct of the procurement procedure and the contract concluded as a result. So, of course, it is necessary to leave a reasonable margin of discretion here in order that, if, say, this means a multiannual period, the contracting authority should not suffer any damage because of the fact that it may win less money than it found sufficient at the beginning of the tender or the tender. But if these cost limits, whether per square metre or per unit of measurement or quantity, are not regulated at regulation level in this procurement law, then it will be practically simpler or more complicated - speaking of bad Hungarians - whether they can steal money from the system or not. Obviously, works or works concessions are the most burdensome, affected by corruption, but there is also a great deal of abuse in ordering supplies and services, which should be interpreted in particular with particular emphasis on the fact that in about half of the procurement procedures a single bidder, i.e. one tenderer, usually wins the procedure, unless there is a major mistake, and is paid for either the cost of the investment or the consideration for the ordering of the goods or services. Therefore, in order to give a simple example, in the case of a high construction, whether it is a new construction or a renovation, modernisation, energy efficiency investment, it should not be possible, obviously I leave this to the profession, and I will now give you a figure or number, say, over 250 thousand or 200 thousand net forints per square meter. That's for the profession to decide, it could be 185,000, but it could be 290,000. If this is recorded in this way, while ensuring the aforementioned flexibility conditions, there is a much lower chance of corruption. I am not saying that we have eliminated, or at least significantly reduced the amount of money that can be pumped out, and if we can achieve a meaningful improvement compared to this one, it would be practically the greatest act of the last 25 years in this area. In addition, let us taste these numbers, ladies and gentlemen, as forints have been spending thousands of billions of dollars through public procurement channels in Hungary since 2003. In fact, it has increased to HUF 2300 billion in the last year, so we are talking about an enormous amount of money. In practice, we are talking about a high amount of resources that can be interpreted by several percentage points in proportion to GDP, which, if used properly, could indeed be an engine for economic development and the development of the national economy. However, this engine keeps going off because the fuel doesn't get to the right place. Although it is true that on 28 April 2016 the Union set the deadline for the inclusion of new directives in the Public Procurement Act by national parliaments, this became 28 April 2017 for central purchasing bodies in the context of the establishment of the electronic procurement system and runs until 18 October 2018 for other contracting entities. Moreover, there are indeed some welcome innovations to give good news, and this is the introduction of a single European procurement document. This may be justified, but there is reason to believe that everything seems to be a sensible proposal to reduce administrative burdens. This is indeed for this, but it should be pointed out that it is only mandatory in the EU's procedural order and optional in the national procedural order, so it is left to the discretion of the contracting authority whether or not to use this single system of documents in national procedural order. At the same time, it should also be pointed out in the examination of the content of the aforementioned national security risks that the unduly extended interpretation of the law has led to a series of applications, in particular since 2010. So, basically, a concept of rubber has been developed many times during the second and third Fidesz governments, that what could be done has been dragged into this concept, or what could be done has been squeezed into this concept. Of course, there are clear purchasing objects for which there can be no dispute, for certain police and other instruments, such as those used to eliminate a significantly increased terrorist threat due to Hungary's action against the Islamic State, there is no doubt that they really belong in this area, but I would also like to protect the legislator from extending the interpretation of the law here as well as those who will apply the law. Let me relate to what my fellow Member Imre Vejkey and several pro-government representatives, led by the Minister, are using the earlier technical term as a procedure for direct submission of a call for proposals, in the form of a bickwood language: a restricted or three-offer procedure. Technically, the story here is that they are formally trying to narrow down corruption opportunities in the public procurement system, trying to narrow the scissors a little bit by lowering the threshold for this applicability from 25 to 18 and from 150 to 100 million. However, I would like to draw your attention to a few not-important details, which have either been overlooked by experts, or you do not want to say the other part of the sentence, or to quote a great classic: you do not break out all, otherwise very important and essential details of reality. Because since 2010, it is clear that Fidesz's intention to relax the prohibition of breakdown and the rules of aggregation in such a way that, in most cases, it would be possible to break down into lots, so that they can obtain in a separate procedure those which could only be combined between 2003 and 10, possibly in a more stringent procedural order, so that we can also see that, in vain, they are taken down to 18 net and 100 net orders of supply and services, this threshold is available for construction works, since the rules for calculating them are the same as they are, and since the ban on breakdowns can practically be broken down legally for years, or can be interpreted and applied almost arbitraryly, in partial terms, so we can see that a lot of procedures will fit even into this slightly reduced threshold. I would also like to say to you - although I would like to be corrected if I am wrong; I would like to be wrong, I would like to say this above all - that I have not seen a clause in the law anywhere, and that it should be added that, at least in this circle, only domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises should be invited to the procedure. [[15.00]] This is now an opportunity for contracting authorities, but it is not an obligation. In many cases, however, we see that there is no exclusivity. Before I misunderstand, the possibility exists, it will not be ruled out, it would only be really ugly, but I do not see the clear ambition that would make it clear that you are one of the most important objectives that can be achieved by this law, which would be the exclusive invitation to this round of bidders in the proceedings. Compared to the risk of corruption, the free documentation has essentially been required by the law since 2010-2011. For my part, I very much disagree with this, as a former referee for public procurement. After all, the local government contracting authorities, which are already struggling with a lack of expertise, and I will return to this in the debate, will have to pay serious costs in preparing a procedure, especially in the preparation of public procurement procedures. It would be a pleasure if certified experts and, let us say, the costs associated with the production of the documentation could be enforced and, in this sense, a non-excess documentary consideration of an affordable level for tenderers would be restored to this law. I believe that this would not prejudice, on the one hand, the EU directives, nor would it prejudice the interests of tenderers, but it would be of great help to contracting authorities, especially small-town or small-town municipalities. With these three tender procedures, returning to this for even a thought, the problem is that practically the human factor is moving in a negative direction, then the story here is that there are two helpful offers. Perhaps, if we look further into it, it is almost the same ownership structure as that of the future successful tenderer, but there are two helpful offers here to have the number of people, and then a anticipated result, to put it this way, that the procedure can well pre-envelop who will win the procurement procedure. It would therefore be appropriate to increase the number of persons to be invited to the procedure to at least five. We have also initiated this in previous years, but in itself it is a weak line of defense, but at least it is something compared to this one. I believe, Secretary of State L. Simon, that it is unpleasant to listen to these things or to face them, but something must be done about this situation. [[L. Simon Laszlo spread his arms.]] Otherwise, you will have the most noble goals. I am merely trying to draw your attention, honourable pro-government Members, to the fact that words and actions again, as noble as the intentions are, I do not dispute that Mr Vejkey is speaking this from the heart and from the heart, but the distance between words and actions is once again light-years. An example can then be given of the fact that the deadlines are shorter, which in itself, with no shorter or longer deadlines, does not prevent corruption from falling from 40 to 35, sometimes to 15 days in case of 30 or exceptional urgency. But I would also indicate that it would not be appropriate to further reduce this at some point, because it will be at the expense of the quality of the offer. We find the concept of self-cleaning vague. Perhaps this should be left to the authorities or to the courts. This is a rather interesting and once again a regulation option incorporating a rubber concept. As far as references are concerned, I could say, even to the 75 percent reference here, that it is somewhat, to some extent, helping Hungarian businesses, but otherwise, the 2003 CXXIX. Law may have had better, more practical regulations. So not everything that's old is bad, which is what I'd like to draw your attention to. However, more precise rules were laid down than technical technical, financial and economic conditions. In addition, relaxing the conditions of technical or financial fitness in this way is still 75 percent of the reference, if you help a Hungarian entrepreneur, I say that it can be of some help. It may be said that anyone who has been able to make an investment of HUF 75 million may be able to complete a $100 million investment, but this also raises questions about a series of other applications, the current terrible slowness of the tendering administration. In many cases, the biggest problem is that the payment of invoices is sometimes delayed for six months or years. It is also an interesting regulation that only known contractors and subcontractors should be named when submitting the offer - interesting, but not necessarily bad. I really stand on this issue objectively, honourable pro-government representatives. Previously, in ancient times, the concept of subcontractors above 10 per cent and below 10 per cent was broken down separately. Those under 10 were less strict, and those above 10 were sometimes subject to strict rules than tenderers themselves. In this way, this is justified in order to facilitate administration and start competing, to create real competition. At the same time, I'd argue that it's always... Once again, I use an older term - they were much more tailor-made, and you do not necessarily have to rewrite everything just because they are dated before 2010 - the best overall offer was a rather accurate wording; as was the lowest remuneration, this can now be baptized at the lowest price or the most favourable price, or the most economically advantageous offer, in fact the same terms. At the same time, if I were you, I would consider that I would certainly not make the lowest remuneration excessive, but I would give it more space than it is now. And I don't know, but perhaps Mr Vejkey will help me find out why construction planning services cannot be criticized only on the basis of price. If it is precisely defined which building or facility should be designed, whether it is built or built, to carry out its design service, then why is it not sufficient to criticize it there, say, on the basis of its price. This can typically be a type of public procurement procedure or sub-type where, let's say, it would be quite enough to rely on the price. I also sign that most of the works are typically not, so there really are several aspects to consider. In particular, allow me to highlight employment aspects. In this sense, I can only make a partial positive interpretation of social aspects, but in terms of employment and job creation, you can count on Jobbik's support, provided that it does actually work for layers that have been excluded from the labour market in recent years and decades. I don't hide the fact that I usually think of gypsy, not exclusively, but typically of the gypsy. After all, there can be a number of construction projects, let's just think about it: construction of a flooding reservoir, sewerage, inland drainage, motorway construction, expressway construction and other roads, various large state building projects, where if the current government could at least resign, and I obviously say this a little cynically, for at least part of the usual gift, i.e. at least part of the corruption rate, we could almost do miracles. And I'm not afraid of using the term "black train" here. Indeed, the situation of public safety was different at that time, a significant number of Gypsies, the vast majority of the Gypsy people were able to get jobs, and precisely by means of the types of investments mentioned above, precipitation, drainage, large investments in Budapest. These should also be restored in the context of today's affairs. Typically, we could provide the untrained workforce, the auxiliary workers, with a mass of thousands and tens of thousands of jobs. Obviously, this would require not only public procurement, but also a change of perspective. I mean, we should turn our thinking around. What a person can do with his physical strength, by nature, should be done with human, physical labor, and mechanization should only be allowed where it is necessary by nature. Because even though it may be a little more expensive, at least as a result of the procurement procedure, a higher amount of contracts will have to be concluded, but there will be much more advantages. After all, that man does not need aid, he does not need public work, which I do not want to do now, but in my opinion the efficiency of the public works system is extremely low in Hungary, but he gets a real job and finds his place in the labour market. This has much more social and social benefits than if they were trying to mechanize me. It is an interesting point, although it is worth considering that the criticism of tenders may take place after the evaluation of the tenders. In other words, the contracting authority has the right to conclude in advance, but this must clearly be indicated in advance in the invitation to tender so that only the most favourable and/or one or more tenders after the most favourable are considered to be valid. This will again reduce the administrative burden if a large number of offers are received and it can be seen that, let's say, tenders that are unrealisticly expensive or of high value or even from a different criticism point of view are not available - then only one specific round of tenders must be assessed by the contracting authority. [[15.10]] And while I know that the contracting side of the Hungarian public procurement system is not only the local authorities, our more than 3100 municipalities are crucial in this regard, and it is a serious mistake of this proposal that this proposal does not settle when compared to our preliminary expectations, even though we were really looking forward to the submission of the bill, or we were looking forward to submitting this proposal, the ideal, or rather I would say: it is based on a utopian precondition that the vast majority of Hungarian municipalities and the majority of their institutions, which may still be operated, have adequate professional competences. And I would not, by any chance, like to criticize the civil servants, but when we look at the Hungarian civil servants' faculty in general, whether by age or by competence, these people did not usually come into the system when they had to deal with public procurement law at all, when public procurement as a concept, let us say, typically after 2003, is not a miracle, and it is not their fault that, let us say, apart from financial and economic professionals - because perhaps I say that we are relatively well-acquired - the professional performers of public procurement, or lawyers or even professionals with public procurement qualifications, especially those with non-public procurement practice. Therefore, since this proposal does not attempt to remedy this, it is a very serious risk, whether in preliminary market research or in other preparation of the public procurement procedure and, above all, in the conduct of the procedure. To provide some interesting additions here in the relatively dry and concentrated material, let me tell you, or let me ask you, on what basis do you think it is possible to make an exception, such as the purchase of political campaign services. Because in the case of national security risk, even a healthy interpretation of the law is understandable because of the nature of the procurement, but why political campaign services, who are excluded, without malice, but in the last five years' knowledge, I can say that there is only one purpose for Fidesz or KDNP to be the largest customer in this field to be able to order such campaign services without any kind of competition, either on a advisory or on a different basis. We are still not making progress, we are still not making progress - and this is a much more serious problem than political campaign services - with regard to the definition of estimated value or, in the case of self-employed entities, with regard to the autonomous right of provision above the so-called operating cost. These are well-sounding concepts, but some clarity of concept might not hurt, although we will, of course, attempt to do so with amendments. A specific interesting question, which I recall, has been addressed by Congressman Vejkey, from among the pro-governments alone, is whether the case of prior market research and market surveying should be examined separately, market research should be carried out by an economic operator who may later be a bidder and may not receive undue or unjustified advantages and thus unduly disadvantage other economic operators or other potential competitors. This is also correct, so it is clear that confidential information relating to the substance of the procurement procedure may come into the possession of specific economic operators with a competitive advantage that it may in itself result in the acquisition of the procedure, but in comparison with that, a logical point is that the contracting authority is entrusted with the fact that the tenderer has demonstrated, in the course of the procedure, that it does not possess such a level of information in a credible and without any doubt. The only solution is to leave this to the public procurement authority and not to the contracting authority. Then - without the need for completeness, I will list only a few more, and then we will discuss this in the subsequent speeches - the accredited public procurement advisory institution of the responsible public procurement advisor. It is very right that, in some cases, this is required on a compulsory basis, although, as I have just said - and I would like to go back to it now - for municipal contracting authorities and for professionally unprepared entities in this sense, this creates an additional burden, additional costs, which make it very difficult for them to carry out procedures, or can only carry out procedures under pressure. And I would once again turn back to an earlier thought - so my sentences are linked - that making documentation free of charge is not only a mistake, but a sin, because it is the only way to deprive the municipality of its potential procurement revenue. It used to be called an official public procurement consultant, there were quite serious qualifications requirements, a very large amount of procedures had to be presented either on the contracting or on the contractor's side, compulsory professional liability insurance was required - this is the right thing to do. Personally, I liked the old name better, but if you're in the mood for this to be renamed a responsible accredited public procurement consultant, we're not gonna get into a fight about it, we just need to see the detailed rules of this, which will not be laid down in the law, but in the regulation, so I don't want to see any legislation under this desk here, too, let us see, as soon as possible, what certification standards and conditions they intend to set for public procurement consultants. I have just pointed out that the price statistics issued by the public procurement authority are not fortunate in the light of overpriced prices, precisely because in recent years investments have been constantly overpriced in different types of procurement, and the public procurement authority will already measure price statistics for overpriced prices, with one consequence: that they will become even more overpriced, or at least remain at the current overpriced level, all the figures included in the price statistics will remain. A rather specific idea - I would also like an explanation for this, because I obviously understand grammatically, which is written down, but I do not understand very well the application of it in practice, with the exception of a few possible Interreg projects, I might be able to imagine alone - that it is the central purchasing body of an EU Member State or a joint procedure between a contracting authority from an EU Member State and an organisation set up jointly by a Hungarian contracting authority. I say, in the case of Interreg or in the case of the old Interreg, I understand this, but otherwise this concept is a little vague; but it may also have been raised because the Union required it, and it may be a provision that will not, at all, or rarely be applied in Hungary in the course of proceedings. The breach of disclosure obligations - and this is very important for the public - should be sanctioned or sanctioned more rigorously than the current ones, not only by requiring that this is necessary, but also by providing for sanctions or more serious legal consequences. It would also be appropriate to define the concept of a specific infringement, since this is another concept of rubber, and we fear that, since it is expressly written in the text of the norm, that there is no possibility of a full review of the offer of another economic operator, we will not be able to guarantee that the specific infringement can be found to be credible or, where appropriate, leads to contracting authorities or even administrative self-consciousness by expanding or reducing this concept of rubber. According to the bill, the deadline for the submission of tenders may be longer than the general deadlines or may be extended in the course of the procedure. This flexibility should, of course, be left in it, especially if it is necessary to have an on-the-spot view, to provide additional information, to amend documents or to inspect documents on-the-spot. In this case, the practice shows that it is mostly the on-the-spot access - typically in the case of works - or the additional information that gives rise to this. We still have a number of critical comments on the proposal, and we do not see this better than the fact that we are now at the end of 30 minutes, but there are still a number of important points to be said. So I would just like to say in advance that we will not be able to support this bill in its present form. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] However, if they show some sensitivity to the inclusion of the amendments in order to develop Hungarian businesses, then, of course, we can still review our position. And then we'll continue the debate later. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-85	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP is Mr. András Schiffer. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-09-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Since 2010, this is the second law on public procurement, which the Orbán government has presented to the Parliament. In 2011, a public procurement law has already been introduced by the system of national cynicism to the House, and now there is a new public procurement law - one has to think that the sudden need to create a new public procurement law is probably another chapter of the gang war, there is new times, there is a new hand, there is a new public procurement law. If anyone has any doubts about this, it is worth looking at the fact that while six months ago, for some reason, it was not really understandable, let me say, the legal reason for the decision - MTVA was removed from the scope of the public procurement law at that time, it is now suddenly returned, and I would not mention how long the list of so-called national exceptions remains. [[15.20]] There is a gang war going on, and economic legislation is subject to this gang war in many other respects. However, two weeks ago, the Prime Minister here promised me an immediate question that he himself would support - I can only hope that the other 131 Fidesz and KDNP representatives would do the same - the proposal of the LMP to the Public Procurement Act that, for example, a Prime Minister's relatives should not participate in government procurement or the relatives of a mayor or their interests in municipal procurement. In the same way, one element of this bill - and the Prime Minister has promised to support it - is that in the future there will be no such thing as in lighting tenders, there has been a similar interest in determining the technical content of the bidder, and at the same time it will start the tender. We are waiting for the opinions of Fidesz and KDNP to be in line with Viktor Orbán's opinion, and we are waiting for Viktor Orbán to keep his word. Dear Parliament, The role of public procurement in the Hungarian economy is not negligible, so the demand generated is a very important part of the Hungarian economy. About half of the purchases are made with their data displayed in the Public Procurement Notice. The annual reports of the Public Procurement Authority also account for this. This means that every year public funds are spent between HUF 1200 and 1800 billion through public procurement. This means the conclusion of some 10-18 thousand contracts per year between around 1700-2800 contracting authorities and 4000-5600 winning companies. Public procurement is therefore an important economic policy instrument in the hands of the current government and an opportunity - and this opportunity will not be seized by the government in 2011 or now - for the current government to give advantage to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through public procurement or through public procurement law. This is also important, since Hungary's strategic problem is the development of a dual economic structure where small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary have a terrible disadvantage vis-à-vis multinational companies and court suppliers and oligarchs. However, public procurement can be a tool for the current government to develop the green economy, enforce sustainability aspects or spread fair trade. These aspects are not reflected in the current or the proposed public procurement bill. Public procurement, of course, also carries a risk. There is a risk that in every country there is terrible corruption pressure on the governments and municipalities at all times to drain public money, public wealth, all of us, taxpayers' money into unauthorized pockets. In addition, a non-negligible portion of state money has gone from Hungary to offshore paradises in the last 20 years, a cash pump has been under pressure and continues to weigh on the Hungarian national economy, and public procurement can and must be one of the channels where everything can and must be done to ensure that as little income as possible migrates to unauthorized pockets, that this country cannot be robbed any longer, and that as little money flows out to offshore havens. So there are two aspects to be followed up in the debate on a public procurement law. On the one hand, what economic policy objectives are reflected in a public procurement law submitted by the government and on the other hand, whether public procurement rules provide sufficient guarantees that the political elite will no longer rob this country. These two aspects need to be considered in public procurement legislation. The Corruption Research Centre looked at the share of thirty companies that won the most in all public procurement in 2009, and then looked at the course of these 30 companies' lives, how much they won in 2010 and 2011, and vice versa, how much the 30 companies that won the largest in 2011 had in all public procurement in 2009, the last full year before the government change. If these sequences are shown on graphs, it can be seen that the thirty biggest winners have essentially replaced with the thirty largest winners of 2009 after the change of government. This shows that neither before 2010 nor after 2010 were the different, changing governments to try to choose the winners of public procurement, acting as a careful farmer, at the most important political goals. Public procurement over the last 25 years has been a tool for the exchange of power elites to fill their own capitalists with a lot of state money. In English: this research shows that the same game took place before 2010 and after 2010: public procurement, various governments and, of course, municipalities used it to recapitalisation their own oligarchs, their own suppliers in the yard. Dear Parliament, It is worth looking at trends in corruption in Hungarian public procurement. The value of eight and a half thousand public procurements in 2012 amounted to 4.7 percent of the GDP of HUF 28 000 billion, and there is no effective control, which also attracts corruption. It is estimated that corruption spans seven out of every ten public procurement procedures conducted in Hungary, but it is usually impossible to prove that. According to systemic corruption experts, the total cost of purchasing all procedures can be increased by up to a quarter compared to a realistic price level. So when we talk about corruption risks, of course we talk about the purity of political life, the inviolability of certain moral rules, but we talk about it at least so much that the money that flows illegally due to overpriced prices is missing from schools today, missing from hospitals. And we also need to look at the fact that the proportion of all public procurement expenditure is published on the Public Procurement Authority's website, because then we see that this number is decreasing due to changes in public procurement law, i.e. transparency has decreased over the past four to five years. In addition, there has been an increase in the number of public procurements where there is no call for proposals, but only the announcement of results. It can be observed that there has been a significant reduction in the number of public procurements in favour of one applicant, but if we take the above factors into account, we must say that the situation has deteriorated in recent years, said János Tóth, head of the Corruption Research Centre. Dear Parliament, It seems that for now the government is pretending not to see that EU funds are perhaps the biggest corruption risk today. Various research shows that the risk of corruption in EU funds in Hungary is 8 percent higher than the risk of national resources. In Hungary, the volume of public procurement financed from corrupt EU funds can be estimated at 1.15 percent of GDP on average in the 2009-2012 years. This means that every year the EU spent HUF 335 billion, or HUF 1340 billion in four years, in a corrupt way. So this is the amount that did not enrich the Hungarian national economy, not the Hungarian national economy, but the economy of certain families. Since the change of regime, the Hungarian Parliament has now negotiated the fourth public procurement law, and since the change of government in 2010, the second public procurement law has been in front of the House. This also means that in this area of economic law there is an increase in unpredictableness, and that unpredictability, an uncertain legal environment, also favours those fishing in confusion. The May Other has already put a package of predictable laws on Parliament's table two years ago, since it is important, in line with the content of the specific draft legislation, to have predictable conditions in the economy. Moreover, this is particularly important in the field of public procurement, because as long as separate public procurement experts have to be employed in order to extract what is really important in a given tender from the constantly and inaccessible legal material, it will mean that the correct spending of public funds is completely uncontrollable. [[15.30]] The LMP can say that in Hungary at the latest from 2018 we need legislation that creates predictability for economic operators in the economy. We break up with salad legislation, and fundamental economic law cannot be changed again within a certain time. It can also be seen that the new public procurement bill is also on the same path as before: it opens up the possibility of regulation governance. And, yes, the public procurement system that transforms Hungary into a heaven of public procurement consultants continues to exist, because of the constant changes there is a huge demand for them, their application is required for more than one procedure, while their selection is not subject to any rules. You don't have to involve public procurement consultants. If something is corruption, a hotbed of abuse in Hungarian public procurement law, it is precisely the market for public procurement consultants. And this is the so-called innovation partnership, a new and also questionable procedure, which is set out in the bill. What are we talking about? Innovative sewerage will be built on innovative roads, of course with innovative fountains and innovative spatial stones. Based on recent years, I think that's pretty much what's coming from the spirit of this law. It will continue that many will fish in confusion, as this assumption is supported by the fact that there is a new reason for exclusion in the bill, namely, with suspicion of unauthorized data acquisition, so there is no evidence, there is already suspicion that anyone can be excluded, and this allows a wide range of scope to manipulate procedures. It allows for a wide range of personalized applications, enough to incriminate, accuse a contestant, and it is possible to customize the whole procedure. Dear Parliament, The simple people see that while the Hungarian state uses an extremely efficient IT system for collecting money, just think about online cash registers, spending money is much more opaque. Hungary will be a viable place if proper IT systems and transparent rules and transparent rules apply to both collection and spending of money. At present, the simple entrepreneur sees that when it comes to collecting money, the NAV attacks with the most modern technical means, when it comes to spending money, suddenly the websites freeze, suddenly the data that could be used to track the public money's path becomes unsearchable. The May Other has published the 12 points of anti-corruption in 2008 as the first public policy programme to break the flag. Our belief is that Hungarian people, Hungarian taxpayers, should be guaranteed that regardless of which party governs this country, regardless of who controls a local government, regardless of whether the person sitting in the seat of a minister or mayor is fair or unfair, there must be rules that protect the Hungarian people's money and wealth. It is not necessary to rely on the integrity of certain decision-makers, but rather clear, clear guarantee rules that prevent public funds from being cut off! In the last five years, we have tabled six separate proposals to amend the Public Procurement Act in order to guarantee Hungarian people that systemic corruption can be eliminated and recreated. One such motion was made in connection with the Tiborcz case. We have tabled a package of laws before the House at Christmas, which would, on the one hand, exclude the same economic interest from sneaking around with the author, the contracting authority, determining the technical content of the tender documentation, and on the other hand, the same interest should accidentally emerge from the tender as a winner. And yes, this is the bill, the lex Tiborcz, where we would like to make sure that the head of the contracting institution is never suspected of having his relatives put up with a tender. The Prime Minister of Hungary promised to support this proposal two weeks ago. The next proposal, which we have made, concerns the transparency of economic interest, the fact that in the future, I note, in Hungary, not only in public procurement, but also in the use of public land leases, concessions and EU funds, there should be a condition of validity that all competing offers be made public after the deadline for the tender, and then all contractual documentation. In English, if any tender documentation or tender documentation is not clearly comparable and accessible after the deadline, it will lead to the civil nullity of the contract concluded on the basis of public procurement. Thirdly, we demanded that Hungary be off-shore-freed in order to sweep off-shore knights. We would like to introduce rules to sweep companies that have offshore interests in any way from the area of public procurement, even from subcontractors. Fourthly, the LMP proposed that the two-thirds majority included this, but it was never on the agenda so that the sub-contracting network would be fully transparent in the field of public procurement. Fifthly, in connection with a scandal in Zugló, in 2013 we proposed to protect workers that if the contracting authority mischosen the winning company, it does not act as a careful farmer, and at the end of the chain, the simple contractor, the simple worker, is anxious about how to pay his bill, because by chance the successful company found a way to fall, so to speak, in the performance of the tender, then the publisher must answer to these workers, these small businesses for their legitimate reward. Sixthly, we have also tabled a bill to limit the scope of accelerated procedures. The six proposals also share the fact that none of them are returning to the current bill. Other things, on the other hand, come back and give cause for concern. For example, the current bill increases from HUF 150 million to HUF 500 million, i.e. more than triples the value of the works for which an order can be awarded without the publication of an open competition or notice. In addition, it introduces further facilitations in this context, the requirements for the duration of the time limit for the submission of tenders are not applicable, the contracting authority is not obliged to impose a standard of competence and the contracting moratorium is extended to five days. The bill does not take account of the risks associated with the negotiated procedure, even if the open or restricted tender results in an irregular or unacceptable offer, it already provides for the negotiated procedure, but 61 percent of the negotiated procedures in Hungary, according to the EU's anti-corruption report, are one-party. They say it's not about the price, it's not about the price. There are other aspects that can be brought here, but they must be clearly, precisely and accountablely recorded in the law. There is still no sanction for violating public disclosure rules by a publisher. LMP has previously suggested that the Criminal Code be supplemented by the fact that if the official does not comply with its obligation to publish, he should go to prison. Moreover, the current public policy does not guarantee the searchability of judicial reviews against the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee. The availability of public data is not improved. We need a system where online, it's easy to look for not only the identity of the players, but also their ownership structure, the sub-contracting network. I would like to remind you that, for example, Chile already has an online searchable public procurement database of the public procurement authority there. János Lázár said in his expo here how tight and progressive this law has been in terms of business secrecy. Compared to this, it is full of rubber rules which allow an exception to the scope of the business secret, allowing the bidder not to disclose, by reference to the business secret, that well-defined element of the description - it is very lyrical - or the well-defined element of the professional offer for which it exists... - blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. [[15.40]] It is still rubber rules that can be used by those who want to abuse business secrets. The bill says the amount of the cover may be known before the demolition. Why doesn't it make it mandatory to make the amount of collateral available? There is still a wide scope for the State, the government, to exempt investment from the scope of public procurement from the national security point of view. It remains a mystery why legal services have been excluded from the scope of the Public Procurement Act since the interesting summer of 2010 in Hungary. Why? Why can't you apply for law firms? Maybe it's not that in such a case, even the lawyer's secret is there, and hiding it behind the lawyer's secret, and then it's possible to make a lot of things disappear from the curious eyes? Isn't this about friendly law firms being the easiest paying places? [[István Apáti: Yes, you can!]] I look forward to your rebuttals from the pro-government representatives, of course. [[István Apáti: Anyone who doesn't have a shirt doesn't take it personally.]] Dear Parliament, The LMP demands that so-called mud undertakings be excluded from public procurement in its entirety. It currently gives the contracting authority discretion, which is another corruption pressure on the contracting authority, that where a person has broken the rules of a previous procurement or concession procedure, or has carried out a competitive act, such as carteled or otherwise outstanding debts to subcontractors or workers, it may be excluded from public procurement. Why is that a discretion? And what are the aspects of discretion? If not even the aspects of discretion are defined, the call for a waltz, to be exact, for corruption, is an invitation to tap public funds. Who and on what basis will decide that one cartel may remain in the procurement procedure, and the other cartel will be expelled? Who's gonna tell you that anyone who doesn't pay the sub-contractor is gonna have to leave the public procurement, and the other one's gonna stay in it? We demand that we make this clear. Anyone who has broken public procurement and concession procedures, who has carteled, who does not pay his subcontractors in Hungarian, does not pay the small ones, the workers, get the hell out of the area of state money. It's as simple as that. Dear Parliament, We have already drawn attention three to four years ago to the fact that, in the current public procurement, there is a particular corruption risk in the redress system, and, to be exact, in thinking of the lunar yard between 2010 and 2014, you have brutally increased the appeal fees. Of course, former friends, Lajos Simicska and Zsolt Nyerges, have won so many applications without even having recourse, because you have very cleverly mastered how to raise redress fees in such a way that no one can think of initiating redress procedures. It seems that you also want to provide for new friends, since there is not a single word, to be exact: the system of redress fees is entirely part of the regulation's governance. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Transparency International has a proposal which, I think, would be considered for the proposal for a public procurement bill currently under negotiation. The proposal concerns the integrity agreement. This integrity agreement is a contract concluded between the contracting authority, the offeror companies and possibly an independent monitoring body carrying out an audit. The monitor examines all the data, documents and documents of the public procurement and the performance of the procurement. The monitor is the guarantee that both contracting authorities and tenderers take it seriously that they do not hush during public procurement. Anyone who has nothing to fear will agree to at least the possibility of integrity agreements being included in the new Public Procurement Act. To sum up, I see that what is the economic policy objective of the current public procurement bill is still not helping small Hungarians, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary through means of public procurement. There are very weak aspects which, by the way, serve the sustainability aspects, the development of the green economy, and there are absolutely no aspects that would otherwise serve the spread of fair trade in Hungary. So from this point of view or from this approach, this public procurement law will take the country further on the path it has run over the last 25 years: the gap between small and medium-sized enterprises, the local economy and court suppliers and multinational companies is expanding. This public procurement law continues to favour the greats against the little ones. On the other hand, it appears that this new public procurement law continues to follow the power logic that anyone who has obtained a majority, who has obtained a large majority, has the right to appoint a new national bourgeoisie. They are not talking about Lajos Simicska and Zsolt Nyerges; unfortunately, the Prime Minister has fallen into a quarrel with them; now we have the new lords, the new Dumpsters, and there is a public procurement law here that will ensure that they reach the ferry; they will reach the border if and if the voters do not say no to that. So this public procurement law does not contain any guarantee that would protect Hungarians from recapitalisation of people and certain families at their expense, since - let there be no misunderstanding - when you talk about governing for the benefit of families, you can pretty much list the dozens of families to whom they govern, including through the public procurement organisation system. We continue to demand that LMP require Hungary to have a public procurement law that makes it clearly transparent, making all the tender documents comparable after the deadline for the application - I note that we also demand that the concessions, as well as the trade concessions, do so. We also demand that the offshore knights also be removed from the public procurement area. We also demand that the sub-contracting network be made public. Our further demand is that there should be a public procurement law that guarantees simple people, single-time entrepreneurs, single-time workers that if and if the winner of the tender does not have sufficient coverage - which according to the bill does not necessarily have to be justified at the time of the announcement of the tender - they will not be smoking the biggest. There is no such guarantee at the moment! In recent years, there have been a lot of public procurements that ended with unpaid yellow checks on the kitchen table of an entrepreneur, a worker, and the one who won the sure party from the municipality or the government, he washed his hands and was waiting for the liquidation procedure. Now, this wiener has to be finished, the author has to stand up for the one he's chosen. We also demand that the scope of accelerated procedures be narrowed down and that in the future there should be no such thing as that of some of Elios' applications, that the same circle of economic interests be involved in drawing up the technical content of the tender dossier, who will then start. And, of course, we would like a public procurement law that precludes any government member, Prime Minister or mayor's pereputty from benefiting from state government tenders. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] We're missing these warranty elements. From now on, we continue to suspect that this public procurement law - we have been looking at the second public procurement law here for four years - is nothing more than the gang war, the redistribution of cons. It is obvious that this law cannot be supported by those who feel responsible for public wealth, for the Hungarian public money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-87	Thank you, Mr. Schiffer Group Leader. I will ask Congressman László Varju if he wishes to speak to him. [[On the mark of László Varju:]] Then he's the first independent congressman to apply, he's got a 15-minute window. [[15.50]]
u2015-06-09-88	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, by putting the Public Procurement Act before the House, we could have listened to a very interesting expo from the Minister, and it is worth talking about or returning to what he said at regular intervals, because everything he said could have been said by anyone on the opposition bench, for example by the fact that the Public Procurement Act has to contribute to reducing Hungarian bureaucracy in a meaningful way, because in Hungary, compared to the 13 percent of the developed states, the state bureaucracy that works is 20 percent. You've been building and developing this for five years instead of making a substantial reduction. Or I could also mention that the law on public procurement applies in the same way as the tax returns, that we have gone away - and now I have once again quoted Minister - from the beer mat solution and there is an amazing amount of bureaucracy in our lives. I hope that this will not come out as a result of the amendments to the minutes that he has indicated, and I hope that this will be instructive in the finalization and adoption of the law. Just as it may surprise you that Minister was amazed at the need to finance this with his money in the shopping of an EU citizen's beaver bench in Hódmezővásárhely. Well, ask the mayor of Hódmezővásárhely, because it really doesn't make any sense, because you've been talking over the past years about how to help finance and support the economy. Well, this is gonna be difficult. As a result, the law on public procurement which seeks to help this economy, or what it is obliged to do for you, has come before Parliament at all, since the reference to the change in the public procurement directives has been made, indeed, the experience is very serious and it is worth changing, but a third aspect must have been left out, because we can only read from the newspaper that the commitments undertaken in the interests of the European Union are also included. From this point of view, we have heard rather that part of our sovereignty is being renounced - we have heard this from the Minister several times - while we are talking about the source in a significant part, but we also feel free to add the Hungarian national resources that are appropriate in a transparent manner, i.e. in accordance with the directives that have not changed in the last twenty years, so transparency, publicity, control, fair competition, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and ensuring consistency with the EU directives that have been incorporated here afterwards. So these directives have not changed in the past and you have not done so either. Accordingly, let us look at how far you have come in this legislative amendment and what you have been able to provide us with with with regard to these expectations and these objectives. Let's start with the issue of transparency and publicity, which may last even in the midst of hail. However, the condition of publication or the requirement for publication is the result of all procurement procedures, the so-called summary should be published in the database managed by the Public Procurement Authority. I join my fellow Members who have made it clear that, in addition to today's opportunities, this should indeed be done as soon as possible, so that the spending of these funds and this huge amount of money is transparent and meet what you have set out to do. I could also say that the proposal is positive, as it provides more information on individual procedures than is currently the case if this is introduced. But with regard to the element relating to the reference to the business secret, with which they want to eliminate the impossible situation so far, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as long as they have achieved this method, with the very many exceptions, they have not yet reached the goal. Therefore, it is sensible and worth expanding significantly to reduce the exceptions listed in or within the range of business secrets. The same category includes the legal role of determining the estimated value, which is the value of procurement, while ensuring financial coverage, in order to determine whether a given procedure should be conducted in accordance with the rules of a more stringent, so-called European Union procedural order or national procedural system. You are making a significant value adjustment in this, and it is therefore unacceptable that the threshold for manual procurement, restricted procurement, will be significantly increased, and the HUF 24 million HUF 990 thousand threshold will be added again, and in addition to these offers, the HUF 499 million HUF 990 thousand offers will be included. This corresponds to the mafia state operation that operates in professional bersers to bring with you two more businesses, and from then on, the one you have looked out for, the applicant has looked out for the winner of the public procurement procedure, bringing two more, and from then on, these procedures will reduce the real goal that you have set before, i.e. that transparency and competitiveness are all part of it. And that goes against what we've all been talking about. So, instead of the methodology of the, bring two more businesses, I highly recommend to you the entire public and the electronic solution, so that the directives you are expressing can not only be implemented but also be implemented in practice. It is therefore quite obvious that if you maintain this threshold in this way, there will be a much greater proportion of the three-offering solution carried out in the national procedural order, which can be given with nice words and with such indications, but this is an important element of your system: bring two more businesses with you. That is why I propose that the boundary between the two procedures should remain the highest market value as estimated value, with which the majority of the legal objectives can be ensured and enforced. Indeed, the aim is to support small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with the same principles, while ensuring the same publicity, control and fair competition, but not just some of your selected businesses, but also a general one. In view of the fact that, according to the bill, the EU procedural order will be introduced by enforcing the principle of declaration using the so-called European single procurement document, in which it is sufficient to make a statement. You consider this solution to be a great merit, it is true, but there are some that have been operating in the Hungarian legal order for ten years. This was the case in the context of the tender process during the cycle starting from 2007, where all such conditions had to be confirmed only in the contract, and accordingly, my dear fellow Member, this is very right, and I am pleased that this is being carried on. This is an eligible element, since this could significantly reduce bureaucracy, which is just the time. In ensuring fair competition, it is worth starting with the evaluation of offers, and the second question is that initiatives that you are taking can really affect or rather cover up the importance of fair competition. [[16.00]] In this you are pleased to say that from now on you will apply not only the lowest price... but a more complex system of criticism. Overall, since there has been a number of opinions here, it can be concluded that the evaluation system of the proposal goes against almost all fundamental provisions. So what you are saying about transparency, fairness, competitiveness at the beginning of the law, the applications that you want to introduce here, and the resulting ones, all go against it. The new assessment criteria provide a very wide range of possibilities for subjective approaches to uncontrollable commitments, thus not ensuring an objective assessment of offers, and thus the fairness of competition and the application of the legal principles of transparency are almost excluded from what you are thinking here. An extension of the current system, which is otherwise known, can make substantial progress, but it seems that in this respect, which concerns the evaluation of offers, you do not want to move this forward. It is a particularly interesting opportunity that, according to this solution, there is no substantial possibility of amending the contracts concluded as a result of the procurement procedure, and you are now seeking to resolve this. This has insurmountable consequences, since the signing agreement and the post-contractual agreement of the contractor make almost completely unnecessary the agreement and the invitation to tender that happened before it, because if you give us the opportunity to reach an agreement afterwards, then everything that happened before it was pointless and thus softens up the current regulation. And I would like to draw your attention to the reference to EU judicial practice, that this is in stark contrast to what you said here at the beginning, Minister, that you are trying to do that, and that will be almost an EU public procurement law. Well, you can count points one by one, when this has nothing to do with it, they're trying to circumvent it. In the third point, let me draw attention to the support of small and medium-sized enterprises as a closing point. What you are referring to is that this will help a lot, as I have said before, the enforcement of the principle of declaration is right if it is carried over here, but it will be the biggest difficulty for small and medium-sized enterprises, which applies to the thresholds, and this will not be a simpler procedure for them, but an exclusion procedure for them. In the national procedural order, substantial changes can be found that, together with the changes already recognised in the other parts, the changes already presented, can give rise to a great deal of concern in the implementation of these procurements in the procedural order, and these rules have a direct impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. To sum up, I must say to you that there are elements that are clearly eligible, for example, for the introduction of e-procurement, steps to reduce procedural deadlines must be clearly supported, but it must be rejected that the estimated value and thus the rule of choice of procedure are being reduced, this is unacceptable, the new regulation of the national procedural system is unacceptable in this form and the amendment of the public procurement contract is unacceptable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is not eligible under any circumstances. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-89	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the Hungarian Socialist Party. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2015-06-09-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last 20 years, in 25, but within that 20 beyond 5 will be amended twice, and now in 5 will also be amended twice by the Public Procurement Act. Well, in this regard, it has been achieved four times as well, but in its content it is unlikely that they can achieve the same result. You know, when it comes to public procurement, people think that they expect it to be the final product, the final result, to be born in the best quality and possibly at the most acceptable price. No matter what product it is, the point is: in the best quality, at the most acceptable price. Then the last 5 years or now the 6th have given deep rebuttals as to whether or not this should be the case, and the problem is that those who are involved in a public procurement, if not directly, but indirectly, metaphorically, whether they are businesses, the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises so often mentioned, in line 2, 3, 5, or the people whose employment these processes are related to, are usually the losers of the story. You, too, on the government side, can give many or even countless examples, when the winner of the public procurement could not go through the process or did not want to go through the process, he went into liquidation proceedings, and then the people in line 2, 3, 5 became the sufferers of the story, especially those employed by them. You don't have to say a lot of names, do you? The other part is that public procurement could and should also be able to provide, say, indirect or external assistance to a certain extent in solving local employment policy problems. In the framework of a public procurement procedure, if there were passes that would properly reward the employment of the local workforce - I am not talking about money, but, let us say, within the framework of a scoring system - it would probably be possible to achieve, in particular, in the most disadvantaged areas to which, let us say, development-type financial resources are generally less likely to reach than in the more developed regions of the country - the exception of Budapest, right, the distribution of European funds - to have a beneficial effect in these areas. But it is not so, because even in areas or districts that are less developed, it is not possible that, if a company or a consortium is available to carry out work, they would have access to these resources in the majority or primarily, which can be caught up in the framework of public procurement. I know an example - you, too, I am convinced - where on the cost side of the proposals submitted by the local forces, there were about 20-30-35 percent less funding needs, and interestingly, they did not win the tenders. But I also know a case in which applications were won, and then, interestingly, they had to withdraw from this process in a month or two, because they were inspired to do so. The point is, therefore, that cases that have been reflected in the last five years are reflected in the context of public procurement, in my view, although I am not right, they do not, in my view, contribute to the economic development of the country, whether they affect the strengthening of micro- and small enterprises in Hungary or the improvement of employment positions in disadvantaged areas. [[16.10]] I cannot avoid what was said here by my fellow Member Lazarus, Minister, when he uses figures, given his employment compositions, that 4.2 million people employed in Hungary and 20 percent of them. I would like you to know, Mr Secretary of State, in the last ten years - but it is not a problem if the Minister also finds out - there has not been a single year in Hungary, unfortunately, where the number of employees of the order of 100,000 in the Hungarian statistics, who were persecuted abroad, together with public employment, would have reached 4.2 million. No, it wasn't. I wish I had. But I don't want to go into this part of it, but I want to deal with the issues of public procurement in the future. I am trying to avoid the repetitions that my fellow Members have said, so I am talking more about those things in headlines. Many claim that public procurement in Hungary is accompanied by a serious risk of corruption. They claim, and there is certainly some basis for the story, because at the time and at the time of every second public procurement, half of the public procurement shows that 1, i.e. a company offers, this is about nothing more than customised public procurement. Competition, transparency, this is what the Minister has been talking about, the issue of transparency, simpler and faster public procurement. Where, how, what kind of transparency is there to talk about? Where, how, what kind of competitive situation is there to talk about? Many say that there is a close or at least close relationship between business and the political elite, and in a sense, you can see the handholds of this, and you can also experience them. Not all that the Commission of the European Union 2015 - if I remember correctly - is a coincidence. The 10th of October, in its report on the economic operational programme, shows itself. Overpriced projects have also been accepted, which are sanctioned, which have a penalty-related implications for later ones. Which means that the resources which Hungary could fairly devote to development within the framework of economic operational programmes cannot be used for the purpose of losing funds and, in addition to falling from funds, it must pay penalties and penalties. It is also dissonant that, in many cases without competition, it can be said with a calm spirit that, with reference to national security risk, cases without public procurement are carried out which can at least be matched with a multitude of question marks. Customized public procurement for dudes, pereputty? I have to say that these charges, which many people are making, are indeed correct, because just think about how many gas mechanics in Hungary have managed to get into a position and position like the gas mechanic in the vicinity of the Prime Minister. He was also involved in non-competitorial procurement, if I remember correctly, in a case of HUF 9 billion worth of HUF 9000 million. It is no coincidence that perhaps after last year's revenues, the size of the dividend of 1.8 to 1.9 billion, 1800 to 1900 million HUF is the order of magnitude that he could achieve. It was only 800 million two or three years ago, only 800 million. You know, when my memories do not deceive me, 225 people who were employed that year paid 157 million forints. The dividend was 800. Maybe you think it's okay. [[Dr. István Józsa: Exploiting?]] Maybe it is, maybe it's exploitation, maybe it's wild capitalism? I don't know. I don't know, but I feel that, in my conscience, this is not right, absolutely wrong, and it is born within the framework of public procurement, under the aegis of that, in the spirit of that. But there's a lot to talk about here. There could also be a series of items here, and here, in line with my fellow Member Schiffer's fantasies, to say that nothing will be fulfilled from the fact that in relation to the Prime Minister's immediate kinship, including what he himself said was not to refer to him, and it will not win, but, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, there have been sales of companies in certain interests. Yeah, as a result of last year's work, dividend withdrawal of HUF 470 million will take place, and then these companies are no longer in the same business circle. [[Dr. István Józsa: Ah, no.]] Not anymore. So next year, they will not be affected by the ideas that my fellow Member Schiffer wants! So, what I'm trying to say is that there are a lot of ways to do this, but I think that what's been going on for the past nearly six years is not fair, it's not fair. It's irresponsible to consider the financial spending you're making at the expense of public money. I must say, what Csaba Tóth, lead speaker, said, that we faced a multitude of overpriced giant projects last year as well. I've got the consistency, I've told you before. We have it, because we cannot use resources, which we have, we are being punished, and the result is that Hungarian people are losing the opportunity to use resources. [[Gyula Vantara: Wow!]] Yeah, wow. The Hungarian people are losing the financial conditions for which they are also making sacrifices, because we are well known to pay our taxes to all of us in the European Union. But if you work well, then sooner or later it will be possible for this country to actually have less resources than its deposit. We are a long way from this, my better fellow Members, so there is no need to be happy yet, but the government can be instrumental in reaching this position. I think we should avoid that. It should also be avoided, as should the subjectivity within the framework of public procurement, with regard to the category of exclusion or even the category of self-cleaning. I do not wish to forget a multitude of examples, but rather to refer back to two things between finishing thoughts. One is that if they want to do serious, responsible government work, they should only take into account the one basic principle that public procurement really serves to produce the best quality through it and, if possible, at the most acceptable price. It is about or should be about serving those whom you should serve: the multitude of small people working in Hungary. You know, the hard-working little people, which, interestingly enough, have already been abandoned in terms of their use of the word. He's been a hard-working little man for a week, now he's gone, and he's no longer in his best interests. So I would just like to suggest to you that, through public procurement, the interests of a multitude of Hungarian businesses, of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, should also be taken into account, and that regulatory systems should be put in place, especially in disadvantaged areas, for the benefit of areas and for the strengthening of the employment potential of people living there. That's all I'd like to ask of you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[16.20]]
u2015-06-09-91	Thank you, Congressman, notary. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2015-06-09-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, While I was waiting for my speech, I was a little nervous about the roof, not only because it was hailing outside, but we could also hear sentences that might fall on us. As a matter of fact, I have always followed the statements of the MSZP, Nándor Gúr, as if he had just entered the Parliament and spoke as a complete outsider for the past four or five years; he spoke of it as if Gábor Simon, let's say, the money that was found in his account in Austria, must have been from his work; he spoke of it as if the secret vault that János Zuschlag had spoken of was found in the headquarters of the MSZP, where the wind would have blown those massive hundreds of millions, and not in the same system, because in the last twenty-five years this system, yes, you have developed it together, which is in Hungary. And I'd like to correct here that you said that for the last five years, what's been going on hasn't been very fair. Well, my dear Nándor Gúr. What's been going on in this country for the last 25 years hasn't been fair. And I'll tell you the truth, it's not just public procurement. And who wasn't being fair to? This country was one of the richest countries at the time of the so-called change of regime, since it had a huge amount of state wealth compared to its territory, and it has been able to bring down this state's wealth to almost zero in the last 25 years, and to sell and destroy everything, the agriculture of this country, its manufacturing industry and to lose its markets. [[Dr. István Józsa: Agriculture? That's new.]] Then I would also like to respond to one or two things that were said in the Expo of János Lázár. Mr Lazarus here talked about our relationship with the EU and how much we are net or non-net contributors, how much we pay, how much we get back from it, and how our balance sheet is still good, and how much of this we can turn into improvements, it determines, and that without it we can't... János Lázár forgets only one thing: if we hadn't had the last twenty-five years, and in these twenty-five years things wouldn't have happened that have ruined our agriculture, destroyed our manufacturing industry, lost our markets, and if we had this now, we might have been able to rebuild this, recover it, and add to that what we are paying the EU, then we would have to look at how much money we can invest in development, because then the overall picture would be completely clear. And given the possibility of spending money on development, it doesn't matter what money we get from the European Union, which we can spend on development money. Because indeed, it is heartwarming for everyone to see a beautiful park, when some public square is being renewed, but it may not be necessary for Hungary at the moment to have as many parks as possible and as many fountains as possible and everything else, but it may be that this country needs economic recovery improvements that can move forward. So what we're going to use it for is what it doesn't matter. Then I see many things in this law, but I tell you honestly, the purity, the transparency that Minister spoke of, it is not certain that you can see in this law, because what he was talking about is plans. The question is, by the way - because we can make any laws - how implementation will be implemented. I'll give you an example: in 2012, this House passed a law, this law stated that from 1 January 2012, companies with an opaque offshore background should not receive public funds, nor be eligible for any EU tender, nor can they receive such money. In January 2012 we passed this law, it was valid from there; then in August 2012 experts of the Jobbik Hungary Movement saw how things worked at the National Development Agency, and in just six months it paid more than HUF 30 billion to companies with offshore backgrounds of the National Development Agency. Well, there's a law if we don't follow it. We can make any laws right now if we don't follow them. The speech of John Lazarus, by the way. After more than ten years, I feel that he has told me how it worked, that this whole system is wrong, what was the fault of this whole system, because when he argued that changes should be made here, it was almost a confession, because remember that from these ten years that John Lazarus spoke about, you have now been ruling for almost five years. So for five years you have been operating public procurement in the same wrong system, operating the tendering systems in the same wrong system, and unfortunately you have not been able to do anything against the corruption against which, let us be benign, I believe that you wished to do so, that you were willing to do something to combat corruption, but in this case you have failed, but in my opinion there has been even more corruption in sectors that have not been present, such as sports, but you have created the possibility that sports corruption is now an accepted concept in Hungarian politics and public life. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] Following the announcement of the concept of the new public procurement law, it is no exaggeration to say that an entire country has looked forward to the future in the hope that one of the main instruments of immobilizing and strangling corruption will finally be removed, the opaque and uncontrollable procurement procedure. Unfortunately, in the light of the norm text, I must say that all those who expected this must have been disappointed. Small and medium-sized enterprises that expected real opportunities to be offered to them had to be disappointed and will finally be guaranteed clean competition by the law. Those who hoped that a clear, transparent, traceable and enforceable set of rules would finally be put in place for their investments from their own institutional source or support, ensuring the smoothness of procurement and removing the bureaucratic procedures that lasted for years. Those who hoped that the government had finally recognized what the world has known and said for years that the primary obstacle to Hungary's competitiveness was the unfair use of public money, corruption. The proposed bill does not remedy any of the serious problems that have been dealt with only at the level of mention above. Four years ago, we were sitting here arguing about the same problem, and then we also came to this House with a brand-new public procurement bill, with a justification for making the use of public funds more effective, for the selection of bidders to compete in a clear manner, and for small and medium-sized enterprises to have access to opportunities. Since then, we have seen the rise of companies, which, in a strange way, are tied to a thousand threads and are still connected to the main political leadership. We have also seen how such successful companies, which have won dozens of public procurements, have disappeared, which, on the other hand, are tied to the previous political leadership with a thousand threads. I would not waste time mentioning specific examples, since we all know exactly how to win and how companies do not win because of good relations with the Prime Minister or, where appropriate, the momentary alienation of good relations with him. The bill before us will make no changes to the current insufferable scandalous practice, we can make any rules. I even believe that Minister would indeed like a clearer, more transparent system, but if we leave enforcement to people who are dishonest and immoral, we cannot hope for an improvement in the situation and the start of the purification process. The current bill is probably prepared by the same people as the previous one and based on the instructions and guidelines of the same people as the previous one. And the proposal is likely to be voted by the same parties as the previous one - why does anyone think that the current rule will be better than the previous one? All-inclusive corruption, which is characterised by the current implementation, can only be effectively contained in one way: through the widest possible publicity. The strictest rules against carteling large companies and unfair decision-makers are not effective. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, that since 2009, the Hungarian courts have not definitively established corruption offences in public procurement cases, as opposed to, say, the European Union, which is effectively guarding its own money, which has repeatedly stated that public procurement during the use of tender funds was, in a slight way, irregular. The institutional system and the administrator or even middle manager in it can do nothing if the personal involvement of the superior powers is evident among the owners of irregular, overpriced, grating companies. The most effective way to detect personalised procurement requests is to provide the details of the procurement to those familiar with the particular case, procurement or local relationship system. [[16.30]] I know that public involvement may harm certain business interests or create additional burdens for both the contracting authority and the tenderer, but these harms or additional burdens will be reduced compared to the material and social damage caused by the current unsustainable practice. In my view, a radically different approach is needed to eliminate anomalies around public procurement. Without a simple, clear regulatory environment and the broadest possible publicity, the situation cannot be improved. And here we have to say that there is one, perhaps even more important, part; that is, if these are public. If we really conduct transparent and clean public procurement procedures and put the interests of the country and the Hungarian people first in these procedures, these are the things that we keep in mind, it is also important that when we find someone trying to abuse these funds, he tries to hush up in public procurement procedures, if we suspect corruption or anything else, then it would be completely irrelevant - and the whole social and political attitude would change from here - who this man is, which party he belongs to, whose friend, relative, acquaintance he belongs to. At that moment, he should be dealt with by the strictest force of the law. None of the political parties should hide these matters. We shouldn't be protecting these people. If someone treats public money the way they've done in the last 25 years, if someone's been doing things like they've done in this country, and I'm really not just talking about you guys. [[L. Simon László: What do you mean, not just you?]] There have been plenty of examples here, and there are plenty of examples of how this country has been robbed by certain people. If these people weren't protected by politics, not covered up, and a case like this wasn't meant for middle-level people to be punished, then the world might change. If political leaders or politicians in Hungary did not feel that they could do anything, they wouldn't harm their hair, then we could live in a completely different world. And that is the basis for changing public procurement, which should be implemented primarily in Hungary. But it's not bound by the law. It is only bound by the law that the laws describe exactly what is to be observed, what is to be done to everyone, and we must enforce them. These should be addressed by the investigating authority, which should be dealt with by the authorities that have taken the role of control. And that is why we should take very seriously the role of controlling both the ministry and the various organisations. So, first of all, we need a change of attitude, first of all, a change of attitude in which a parliamentary representative or a position as a member of the government is not a privilege, but a service. The main focus should be on the service, and this service should not involve corruption or abuse of office. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-09-93	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP for two minutes.
u2015-06-09-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say to my fellow Member Szilágyi that it doesn't matter to me that the betterman, the MSZP or the fidesz are doing evil. If you're doing something mean, you're gonna have to deal with it. It's very simple. Anyone - anyone! - in any political context, it must be dealt with. But now, speaking of the issues of public procurement over the last five, nearly six years, I think it is worth talking about, in particular, things related to the regnating government, regardless of whether there are any flaws in the last 20 years. But that is not what I want, but that this bill, when it was put to the debate, was discussed together with another bill. This is the negotiation of the 2015 central budget. And they know they're moving the norm of the Public Procurement Act into the current budget. That's the story. This is also incomprehensible or incomprehensible from a legislative point of view, because the Public Procurement Act is being negotiated here, within the walls of Parliament, now. We're negotiating, not accepted. It is not accepted, but, in addition to all of this, that the public procurement law is not adopted, perhaps the Commission's debate is not really closed, and we see it as a fact what the government has tabled. If there are any amendments or no amendments, we consider them to be indifferent, so we will put en bloc into the budget law - I think this is absolutely wrong. This is the same as the adoption of the 2016 budget by amending the 2015 budget twice within one month. There is, as one word, a hundred intransparency, a fantasy of what my fellow Member Schiffer was talking about. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-09-95	Thank you very much. Another 15-minute time frame for speeches; Mr István Apáti, Mr Jobbik.
u2015-06-09-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to respond to Nándor Gúr's last speech. There is some misunderstanding or mix-up between the Member's thoughts, because in the budget law of that year the public procurement thresholds valid or in force for the following year are always published, whether it is a supply, ordering services, works or a construction or service concession. For this reason, it is not appropriate to apply the Public Procurement Act every year to show what has already been stated, or, if there is a change, it is enough to indicate in the Budget Act. At the same time, I listened here and the facial play of the present pro-government representatives was very instructive. There are two things I can assume. I am well-meaning, and why shouldn't I be when I say that you are naive in terms of the fact that there are no corrupt politicians in your ranks. Anyone who doesn't have a shirt, of course, doesn't take responsibility for his actions and words. This can come in very good cases from naivety, lack of information, ignorance, in worse cases, although it is not impossible, with noble simplicity, to say the least, to give the blind, and try to pretend that nothing has happened, nothing has happened in recent years. Haven't you heard of overpriced prestige investments, completely unnecessary visual investment in the last five years? Or is it not suspicious for you that different county seats, county-righted cities were largely indebted to the prestige investments called "development" in the order of billions or tens of billions? So many of these settlements have been led by Fidesz mayors since 2006, in many cases since 2002 or from 98. Well, let's just stop for a second, gentlemen. The story doesn't look like it's just the left or you. You two share the same mess. But you have to look at how much more these purchases cost to be realistic and expected, compared to rational. Let me give you one more concrete example from 2006: We had to obtain IT tools on the purchase, service and supply of goods by the municipality of Kocsord. We could choose to get it through the centralised system, or take the trouble and carry out a simple, then it could still be a simple procurement procedure. Net HUF 21 million was available. This was the amount awarded. When I met and talked to a friend of the centralized public procurement system, a co-worker, he said God forbid we get it through this system, because by the time the net HUF 21 million is available, it will surely stop between 25 and 30 million. We're talking about 2006, I'll add. For this reason, since it would not have served cheaper procurement, but price-expensive, as we all suspected, the centralised system, we took the trouble and carried out a simple procurement procedure. And see wonder, world. That's how we put together the 2003 CXXIX. Under law, we were able to obtain these assets for 12 million HUF 600 thousand net. The remaining difference could be allocated to the additional costs of the works, as it was three years between the submission of the application and the start of the construction. In this way, virtually the excess produced there was enough to renovate the school building. In this way, corruption was already excluded, as IT tools were obtained at a much cheaper rate than the available framework. [[16.40]] This is how it can be done, so it can be done, it has indeed served the common good, and I could present a number of similar cases, so I am not saying that the situation is absolutely hopeless, or that the person who works in the world of public procurement is only corrupt, and is only waiting for the bribe, but the fact is that there is indeed a great corruption in these cases, which is, in effect, due to the weak human nature, clowning, greed, and, in a word, to the human factor; although some exemplary criminal proceedings and exemplary punishments, I believe that it would take away the will of many and the courage of such acts. Returning to the professional parts, we object and grievance that the disproportionately low price, the objectively low price, is virtually free from all objective aspects of this standard text. In the past, there was a kind of guidance rule that if the offer was more expensive than the most favourable offer, it was likely, presumably, too low, because it was only intended to win the procedure, then with additional work, additional work, various forced concepts or forced methods, it would replace any loss of revenue, so it would have been aimed at deceiving the contracting authority, in practice also seriously harming the purity of competition - but at least there was clear guidance on what should be considered to be an excessive low price. This has been taken out, and I feel that they have been wronged, and there is still plenty of room for it, so this kind of regulation must not be abandoned, we must put back the regulation which means some kind of guidance for the assessment of excessive or disproportionately low prices. I've been involved before, but it can't be emphasized enough that it's a mistake that the lowest price or the lowest price can only be criticized exceptionally. Indeed, contracting authorities should allow this to be applied more widely. Believe me, what is only a little more complicated than the very simple one, there will no longer be criticism on the basis of price or remuneration alone, but on the basis of other criticisms, but there may or may be a large or wider supply or service order where it would be sufficient to apply the remuneration as a mere criticism criterion, so that the hands of contracting entities should not be tied unnecessarily. What, on the other hand, is strained by a huge internal contradiction and must be dealt with and modified, is the regulation of the negotiated procedure. The main rule of negotiation has been or will continue to exist if, due to the nature of the subject matter to be purchased, it is not possible to accurately describe quantitatively or qualitatively, or if the previous open or restricted procedure has failed because all tenders have exceeded the coverage available to the contracting authority. What are we looking at? During the negotiated procedure, after receipt of tenders, the contracting authority may, on its own initiative, decide not to negotiate with anyone but to close the procedure by assessing and criticising the tenders received. This means a serious internal contradiction, a tumultuous internal contradiction, because if the contracting authority did not negotiate with any of the tenderers, it was able to describe precisely the subject-matter of the procurement, no quantitative or qualitative parameter remained uncertain when determining the subject-matter of the procurement, i.e. the negotiated procedure could not have been applied. In this case, in practice, it is stipulated that the contracting authority may apply the negotiated procedure by taking a decision to kill the selection of the negotiated procedure at the beginning of the procedure, relatively at its initial stage, since it could not have applied this kind of procedure. Then if we go on and watch 96, for example. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this section, we also encounter a pearl in determining the concept of the market. When we are only discussing or having discussions on this issue, we may be able to say it less precisely, but it would be good to clarify this with regard to the concept of innovation partnership that we are talking about a domestic market, a European market, a European market, a world market, or, in this sense, what it means in this context. We miss what we will be dealing with by right-wing amendments, that the inclusion of a concept related to some kind of patent registration or to an intellectual protection area could somehow help or make more understandable this concept not interpreted in the text of the norm. In our view, invitations to tender should still be published in the form of notices, whether open restricted or negotiated. You're also trying to make something big here, do something big, or do it, that everything that was good before, you're trying to throw it in the trash. It doesn't make sense. Excellent model notices have been created by the practice, excellent model notices have been created over the past ten years, the application of these has been virtually canceled, it is impossible to make it impossible, and in addition, you will be satisfied with prior notification of a so-called summary information in the case of works of up to HUF 500 million, where, again, I say net! - up to half a billion forints, there is no need to impose minimum financial, economic eligibility requirements or grounds for exclusion, and this in itself allows tenderers, likely friendly tenderers, to participate in the procedure. A special taste should be given to the concept of, and this should be linked to, say, 5 working days, when the contracting authority sends the notice control department five working days earlier not the call, the notice, but this summary notice will be published within one day, virtually four working days for a micro, small and medium-sized enterprise, which is not professionally specialised in public procurement and procurement procedures, to submit an appropriate offer. This is obviously an unrealistic expectation, and this deadline is too short. In addition, the fact that the intention to participate must be predicted to economic operators, to prospective tenderers also entails the risk that the contracting authority may be able to map out which tenderers have applied in a clear manner, as it sees who is interested in obtaining the contract or the work in question, thus being able to establish the framework of the procedure, to impose requirements and conditions that are imposed on the tenderer to whom the work, the order is to be given, in the framework of the procedures with the expected results, which unfortunately occur very often. It should be mandatory, it should be the obligation of the contracting authority to impose eligibility requirements in all procedures. Loosening this rule is extremely dangerous, and I did not really understand Minister Lazarus - grammatically, of course, yes, but not in substance or in practice - it is very regrettable that a large number of procedures have previously taken place, particularly in financial and economic references, with multiple demands on tenderers to the value of the procedure, compared to the estimated value of the procedure. I would like to point out that these notices could and should have been challenged in the course of an appeal procedure and are likely to have been destroyed by the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee. I can't imagine how, especially in high-value procedures, contracting authorities could have asked for multiple references to the estimated value. In addition, the contracting authority should invite only the tenderers covered by the SME Act in the event of the choice of the economic operator to be invited to tender, at least - at least! - the procedures in which the invitation to tender is to be sent directly, such as certain three-offering procedures. At the same time, although the scope of the contracting authorities is sometimes unduly wide-ranging, there is a very dangerous rule that is intended in principle to prioritise the interests of tenderers, tenderers or tenderers. It would not be a problem for itself, knowing the economic situation and the financing situation of Hungarian companies, to pay an advance to the tenderer, but the current text of the standard lacks an advance-back guarantee, since if the god does not give, the given bidder falls, goes bankrupt, or goes into liquidation proceedings, and swallows up, say, up to 20, 30 or 40 percent of the advance of a municipal contracting authority, then practically the work will not be carried out, and the contracting authority will not be able to sign with another tenderer to carry out the work or to order the service or to obtain the goods. At the same time, they still do not clarify such concepts - there have been some of them, otherwise - that they should be more precise and more precise. Last but not least, we consider the five-day review deadline to be extremely short, here it would be worth to keep at least 10 days, 10 working days, as 5 calendar days are unrealisticly few, taking into account, say, a long weekend or even an average weekend. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of an appeal before the Public Procurement Committee, it would be worth including those qualified as legal counsel in this area, so let us also grant the right of representation to legal counsel in Hungarian, not just to lawyers or law firms or other persons or entities listed in the law, because there is no reason to exclude the legal counsel from the possibility of such representation. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.50]]
u2015-06-09-97	Thank you, Congressman Abbot. I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, on behalf of the authors, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-06-09-98	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am not going to give a substantive answer to the debate right now, and we intend to continue in the detailed debate. I think that all the elements that have appeared in the general debate will also appear in the detailed debate, as our opposition fellow Members are apparently also seeking to take advantage of today's debate and the debate on the bill for topical policy purposes. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] [[István Apáti intervenes.]] In any case, I would like to say to Mr Apáti, just to inform you: in the period 2006-2010, settlements led mostly by fidesz politicians were not indebted to corruption and badly planned investments, but they were indebted - if you were not in the world of politics at the time, they were indebted - because socialist governments united the norms, greatly reduced them, and... (István Apáti intervenes) I've been listening to you, Congressman. I haven't yelled at you. Listen to me. During the period 2006-2010, the socialists hijacked the norms and did not transfer the resources needed for the basic tasks and the mandatory tasks. This put the municipalities in an impossible position, so that was the background of the large number of bond issuances. And I would strongly like to reject the manipulation that you and your fellow parties are constantly using the term "politic criminal." I can say, Congressman, that if you are aware of the fact that we have people sitting in our benches who are involved in corruption crimes, you should press charges. As far as I know, you haven't filed a single complaint. [[Noise, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Yes! Ouch! A lot.]] I'm talking about a Fidesz MP and a Fidesz member of the government, that's what you're talking about. I want you to stop this once and for all. Come up with some facts. You're cutting and accusing, and you can't account for the facts. This debate should not be about who you think is a political criminal who is not, but how together we can create a better and fairer public procurement system, which is otherwise harmonised with the European Union system. We leave the substantive comments to the detailed debate. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the amendment of individual laws to water management, fire protection and public services will follow up until closure. The submission is T/4822. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-06-09-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill contains amendments to the Law on Water Management on Fire Protection, Technical Rescue and Fire Fire Management, as well as to the Act on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments. The amendment of the Water Management Act provides for the possibility for all state-owned watercourses and canals to be managed by water directorates, thus achieving uniform water damage relief and agricultural water supply requirements during the operation of water facilities. Under the current rules, public water flows and channels could not be included in the management of assets by the water management board, where the water company was operating, but the trustee was, for example, the capital or county government office, or the ownership sheet did not have any trust rights of any public body at all. In the event of the adoption of the bill, therefore, ownership issues can be resolved and, in the contracts previously concluded with a third party by the water company for the use and operation of water facilities, the water management board will, by law, be the contractual partner. At the same time, the amendment also provides an opportunity to take over the non-state-owned stretches of sewers which hinder the transfer of irrigation water on the basis of an official decision by the Water Management Board, thus ensuring the delivery of irrigation water to farmers. Furthermore, the bill clarifies the current legislation on inland precipitation water management by ensuring that the maintenance of trenches, sewers and other drainage facilities for national roads and for the dewatering of public railways is ensured by the road and rail maintenance; and the maintenance of other trenches for separate drainage of precipitation water is the responsibility of the local government, which ensures this in the context of the urban operation. CHAPTER XXI The issue of the expansion of irrigation farming and the protection of water resources is a top priority in the 20th century. Therefore, with precipitation falling or leading to public areas, it cannot be the only goal to drive it away, but also to provide an opportunity for inland water retention. The substantive amendment to the Water Management Act gives local authorities the opportunity to manage rainwater responsibly and to use a more sustainable solution depending on local conditions, taking into account the sustainable management of water resources. The proposal also amends the rules of State control over public water supply, sewage treatment and inland drainage companies. The experience of the application of the law has shown that the water utility companies require professional advice and monitoring by the water management boards, not legal examination, which is already being carried out by the court of business. The amendment of the law sets out the monitoring of water professional requirements for water boards. In addition, if the water utility company does not terminate the infringement or the incorrect practice despite the call, the water management board shall initiate an administrative procedure with the water authority or the metropolitan and county government office which falls within its remit and competence. This may, for example, be the case when the establishment of a water utility has been started without authorisation. At that time, the water authority is required to carry out an official procedure, or, if the necessary environmental and real estate authority procedure is not carried out, the water management board should be consulted with the competent Budapest government office in the county. In the context of the amendment of the Water Management Act, the definition of a primary flood water facility and self-use water facilities will also be clarified, and the flood flow band will be introduced as a new concept, in accordance with the rules applied in forestry. The other part of the bill includes amendments to the law on fire protection, technical rescue and fire department. The concept of fire or explosive equipment, machinery or equipment is redefined, the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is taken into account and, in this context, the concept of fire or explosive technology is also defined. By 1 July 2013, each fire-fighting technical product may have demonstrated its fire-fighting conformity by a certificate or a marketing authorisation, but after 1 July 2013, the conformity of fire-fighting technical products which are considered to be construction products can only be demonstrated by the declaration of performance. At the same time, the law also laid down a two-year moratorium on this. On the basis of feedback from producers and distributors in Hungary, this grace period should be extended from two to three years in order to avoid any interruption of investments or delays in the use of facilities. The amendment to the bill on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments provides that the maximum duration of temporary public service provision is determined by a government decree. [[17.00]] Of course, temporary care will also cease if the municipality enters into a public service contract with the public service provider. According to current legislation, the maximum duration of temporary care may be 21 months, which may be fixed for 9 months for the first time and 3 months thereafter. Practical experience shows that a continuous review can create a complicated, non-functioning situation, with uncertainty about the provider of temporary care, and it is therefore appropriate to amend and supplement the Government Decree containing detailed rules for temporary care. Dear Parliament, All the proposals for amendments described above have been formulated on the basis of practical experience, demonstrating a close link between administrative law enforcement and legislation. The bill before us helps to provide more efficient agricultural water, to meet sustainability requirements in inland water management, and also to implement water utilities that can then be operated economically. The fire standards shall lay down the provisions necessary for the implementation of the sectoral Union Regulation. The amendment to the Public Services Act serves to ensure the continuous supply of waste. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I ask for the support of the Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-06-09-101	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-09-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4822 on the amendment of the laws relating to the provision of water management, fire protection and public services. The purpose of the 1995 LVII on water management is to: Act CXCVI of 2011 on national assets. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. to bring the law into line with the concept of watercraft. T/4822. Legislative proposal No.3 amends three pieces of legislation. The first legislation, LVII of 1995 on water management. In the course of the amendment of Law No 13, it is clarified when and in what way individual waters and aquatic installations are transferred to the management of the water management body's assets. It is clearly defined that the maintenance and operation of installations for the drainage of precipitation water in urban inland areas is the responsibility of the municipalities, unless the installations belong to a main road or railway of national importance. All this has been a municipal task, but this has not been clearly regulated, and now the sectoral law is being clarified in the bill. The amendment also allows municipalities to manage precipitation water. In accordance with Government Decision 1042/2012, aid may also be granted to municipalities to carry out such tasks. The amending bill proposes the provision of adequate irrigation water transfer and the public operation of water transit barriers. The water management board shall regularly examine whether the channel section hindering the transfer of irrigation water is in its area of competence. In the event of such a situation, the designation of the competent water authority should be initiated to correct the phase and to operate it for a specified period of time. The proposal introduces a specific category of permits for the breakdown and elimination of water facilities such as wells. This category did not exist so far, the demolition also required a permit to set up. The proposed amendment includes in the rules on the establishment and functioning of water utility companies the broad professional control of water boards over companies. The amendment to the Water Management Act sets out the monitoring of water professional requirements to the Water Management Board, which fits better into the profile of the Water Management Boards. The exercise of the powers of legal oversight remains the responsibility of corporate courts. The amending bill empowers the government to lay down detailed rules for the criteria to be applied when imposing a water management fine and the method of payment of the fine in a regulation. In addition, EU harmonisation and minor clarifications have been included in the proposal. The second legislation, XXXI of 1996 on fire control, technical rescue and fire department. The primary objective of the amendment of the Act is to ensure consistency between domestic and EU legislation. For this purpose, the concept of fire or explosive equipment, machinery, equipment and technology will be changed. For a further year, until 1 June 2016, a certificate or a marketing authorisation certifying the fire safety conformity of fire-fighting products which may be incorporated may be accepted instead of a declaration of performance introduced in 2013. The transition to the declaration of performance has overloaded the certification bodies and a one-year extension is therefore justified. The third legislation, the 2013 CXXXIV on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments. In the absence of a public service contract in respect of waste management, the amendment of the Act aims to allow waste management to be carried out by operators designated by the disaster management board for a period of not only 9 months, but also for a period specified in the Government Decree. Nevertheless, the local government's obligation to conclude a public service contract for waste management remains, but, based on the experience gained so far, it appears that 9 months is not enough to restore the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In view of the arguments I have given you, I respectfully ask you to support T/4822. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-103	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-09-104	Thank you very much for the floor. It is very good to hear from the Secretary of State that, on the basis of practical experience, these utility services have been started to be transformed. We see that the practical experience is that there is a problem, which has been highlighted many times by many opposition representatives, that there are problems with these services in these areas, but it seems that for the time being they have only been able to see the problems themselves, and they have not yet managed to learn the solutions from their representatives and mayors. So I think that in such a nice package we can begin to amend this law again. It is very good to see that water management, fire protection and shipments of waste - everything that is a problem with a municipality today - have been brought together in a legislative amendment. Obviously, as Tolna County, we feel somewhat spicy that my fellow Member, István Horváth, has spoken on this point. But let's look at the modifications. It clarifies the rules for the management of precipitation water in the inland area by referring to the maintenance of ditches for drainage of precipitation water and the operation of water facilities as a municipal task. It relocates the monitoring of water professional requirements to water boards, as practice shows that water utility associations require professional control by water boards and not legal and legality. It amends the Act on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments due to the problems of the waste management system. My fellow Members, you know as well as I do that you have completely destroyed the waste management system. It was a waste management system that worked well and was sustainable before. You have managed to levy five to six taxes, fees and contributions to this area, which has completely made it impossible for companies which are largely non-profit local government owned, which are really standing there today, so that they are slowly unable to maintain the service. [[17.10]] You have now noticed this problem, as I said, based on practical experience, and found to solve the problem that disaster management can no longer appoint the new public service provider for a maximum of nine months, but until the problem is resolved. Well, we didn't solve this problem. Because what's happening at the moment is that disaster control designates the same provider who's been doing the job, and if there's no more money in it and the system is not sustainable, even if they point at the same companies, they won't be able to provide it sustainably. I think that a system should be set up, that we should finally sit down with public service companies in relation to waste management, with municipal representatives and mayors who, I think, are not only chewing our ears on this matter, but also yours, listening to them and adopting a proposal that is acceptable to both the population and the service provider and the municipality. And the fact that it's acceptable to the government from this point of view is the last thing people care about at home. One thing for them is that we don't get into a situation in Naples, and we don't want the trash to end up with no one to take it. Take a look, go home and ask your own representatives on this matter. The only semi-positive element of the proposal is to treat urban precipitation water management as a mandatory municipal task. This area has been unclaimed so far. It was not covered by financing or by an appropriate service provider. However, at least now it has its owner, but it is highly questionable what funding will be used to implement the service. Once again, the municipalities will be given a task that they will not receive funding for, and you, as we can see, are increasingly forcing the municipalities into a situation where they are obliged to impose additional taxes on the population, and that will force them to impose additional taxes on themselves. You're blowing me off, Mr. Secretary. You really have to ask the mayors sometimes, who don't know how to keep these services for the population. And it is really terrible to see that, compared to the fact that in most cases you have promised to reduce the costs of these people, the cost of transporting waste has increased by more than 100 percent in many places. And then, of course, ten percent came off, but people didn't feel it anymore. And if you look at what the practice is, the payment practice is precisely for these services, waste and water, then people are less and less paid because they cannot pay for these services. And in this regard, the most difficult problem in the water utility is the fact that the public does not pay because they can no longer pay, and you know that water is not bound, because it is their fundamental right. I think you should be able to provide a service where people can pay for it, because they would like to pay for it if they could pay for it and the system would be sustainable. I'm telling you, it's for both the municipality, the population and the service provider. The state must also take its responsibility out of this. In addition, the aim would be primarily to secure the collection and proper exploitation of urban inland precipitation water against loss. Properly designed precipitation water management systems are also effective for water retention and the retention of pollutants. The solution to the legislative proposal is quite amazing that, in the course of the amendment of the Law on Fire Protection, Technical Rescue and Fire Fire Management, the government now urgently intends to introduce a 2008 EU Parliament and Council regulation into Hungarian legislation in 2015. Well, let us hope that you feel more urgent than that about the problems of these services, and that we will not have to wait eight or nine years to realise that, based on practical experience, not only the problem but also solutions should be given slowly. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-106	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As in the title of the bill, fire and water are present in this bill at the same time, as we are amending the laws on water management and fire protection in a legislative package, as well as the law on individual public services, but this is just the foam on the cake. As regards the relationship between fire and water, as well as the measures in law and reality, at least as regards the measures that would be necessary to achieve a meaningful breakthrough in this area in view of Hungary's water balance, whether it be irrigation or precipitation water drainage, we are indeed moving towards recovery. After all, the biggest problem in Hungary is that in the last 25 years water management, whether on the official side or on the water utilities or on the side of any precipitation water drainage, is basically the rapid drainage of large volumes of precipitation water, or even floods and inland waters. Which is just one side of the story. We also need to keep it in more droughts and hold back our waters. We have talked several times between the walls of this House about how this could be achieved and how it could be achieved. No radical progress has been made, and that is what you are doing now, that the dying person is given Algopyrin or aspirin, which is obviously a symptomatic treatment, and that may also show a small start towards a good solution, but until we use radical tools in the area of water retention, water management, precipitation drainage, we will not be able to solve the problem. I say this despite the fact that the measures described here are basically not bad, but only legal, administrative, and slightly moving towards practice, but once again, we are talking about surface measures. As far as ownership and management are concerned, we agree that it is necessary to settle this between water utility companies and the water administration, and that the water administration is essentially the one who must exercise this right and the management tasks. It is obvious that it must be subject to public treatment, so that it can be unified, that different abuses can be prevented, and that there is indeed a common concept of thinking in the area of water management. However, the fact that the drainage of precipitation water is now also a municipal task in the Water Management Act, as a mandatory municipal task, is nice and good; it is only a question of whether the municipalities will have a source for this. They will have the opportunity to do so, because the task is still there. Cleaning rainwater drainage ditches, new rainwater drainage ditches and installations would be very important in the settlements as we are seeing a larger amount of precipitation falling, as we are now, in these moments, and in Budapest and in other parts of the country, it has obviously happened today, that cellars and houses are again being flooded by the water, agricultural land is being flooded, and this is precisely because the precipitation drainage network has not been developed, which could deal with this problem properly. As far as agricultural land is concerned, the once existing rainwater discharges have been ploughed in many places, which are why we are now struggling with internal water problems in many places, as these trenches have also successfully led some of the inland water. No drainage, or at least very minimal, is available in the field at present. And it is also true for irrigation that we are making rules to allow the management of watercourses or facilities that hinder the drainage of irrigation water into the soil to be transferred to the water administration, but the biggest problem is that most of the time there are no such facilities to deliver irrigation water to the soil. The fundamental problem is that we can irrigate our agricultural land in Hungary today in a very, very small percentage. This obviously also has a huge impact on the efficiency of agriculture, and since everything is related to everything, the problem of water retention is also out of place here, so it is obvious that retained rivers and precipitation waters could be used for irrigation purposes. At the moment, 98 percent of Hungary's surface-flowing rivers go through the country without any exploitation, which is clearly visible. For example, in the middle of the Danube-Tisza, in the Sandbacks, which has just been published in the press again, there is a huge problem, because water power is said to be Hungary, and we have plenty of water, while on the Danube-Tisza side, in an area of one million inhabitants, one tenth of the country's desert and semi-desert conditions are beginning to develop. The groundwater level has dropped by five to six meters, and no one can solve it, at least no one has been able to solve the problem so far, and if it continues, within 50 to 60 years that area will be depopulated, because it will be unfit for production or for populated settlements, as water as a basic element will be missing. [[17.20]] We should definitely move towards this solution. I know that this is not the subject of this bill, because it is an amendment to the Water Management Act, but it should be noted, since it is basically a water management issue that we are talking about. It also regulates the water management fine and refers it to the regulation of the Government Decree. From now on, it will be necessary to establish a government decree on who, how, and in what form to pay water management fines. It is clear that this is a welcome proposal from the point of view of flexibility and, on the other hand, it would be good to know the frameworks that will regulate this area. Obviously, the unauthorised establishment of the aquatic installation, the unauthorised aquatic activity, is the basis for this fine. In what form and to what extent can it be imposed? At the moment, the fine is 300,000 forints for private individuals. The question is, what a deterrent that is. And it is also a question of how many unlicensed water facilities - wells or any water facilities - are present in Hungary at the moment. Allow me also to comment in a few sentences on the fact that this law is also about waste public services and the designation of a temporary service provider in municipalities without public service, responsible for the Disaster Protection Authority. The fact that waste management services are problematic can be clearly seen, especially from the fact that it is necessary to amend this law once again. Many of these public services are now in a close situation of bankruptcy, as the systems imposed on us by the European Union, regional landfills and territorial systems, which often involve more than 100 settlements, are themselves inoperable. This can also be seen from the near - bankruptcy situation in many places. Of course, the government's various implementing regulations since the amendment of the Waste Management Act, the deposit levy, the product fee laws and many other legislative amendments that have made these facilities impossible and, at the same time, put public waste management services in jeopardy. Obviously, it is not permissible for Hungary to have what we have seen in TV news only so far, that domestic waste is not being moved in southern Italy, in Naples, and this creates a public health situation which would not be worth understanding in Hungary, because this is neither aesthetically nor in any other sense desirable. Of course, disaster management can appoint a temporary public service provider, which may have performed this task for up to nine months, but it is now being pushed out for a period specified in a government decree. The government is obviously preparing for a serious problem in the public waste management sector. Returning to the regulation of water management, the biggest problem here is that the water sector has started restructuring since 2010. After the termination of the former environmental portfolio, he was transferred to the State Secretariat, and some powers were transferred to the Ministry of Interior, mainly in relation to the protection of waters, and then increasingly transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. We have always said that our goal in the case of water is to have all authority and administrative powers under the supervision of a wallet, where they can best, best and most effectively provide it, and where there is a suitable professional base for it. This may be the Ministry of the Interior, and we do not dispute it now, but at the moment it is still the case that environmental supervisors have left under the authority of water authorities in relation to remedial measures, for example, and some minor authority powers, which also strengthen fragmentation. The best course would be to have a separate wallet - we always say this - if it were a separate wallet of natural resources and environmental protection in Hungary, where we could also carry out the tasks related to water, nature conservation, environmental protection and natural resources that require a unified approach, uniform professional regulation, governance, and would be distributed among the different wallets on the basis of non-instant government interests. That's about all I wanted to say. The final position whether or not we can support this bill will be drawn up later, depending on whether we will have approved amendments, how this proposal will take place before the final vote. Since there are positive initiatives, we do not exclude the possibility that we will support it. In addition to this bill, I urge you to put forward new legislative proposals that radically address the root causes of the problem and try to solve Hungary's water management problems at the root, so that an effective and effective legislative work is actually carried out here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Tibor Scones: Yes.]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-09-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The comment made by Mr Lajos Kepli showed that he could agree with parts of the bill, and I can agree with part of his contribution, but, as he added, parts of it, especially those relating to water management, should not be regulated within the framework of this law. I trust that the bill will finally be supported. Congresswoman Anita Heringes's comment was a strange feat. While he criticized the price regulation on the reduction of overhead costs, which apparently led to a very strict management of service providers, in the same comment he tried to stand up for those who could not pay the high rent. Obviously, high service prices cannot be reached and paid at the same time from lower wages or pensions. So this was an interesting feat. Again, his comments on municipal tasks were interesting. I would like to inform Congresswoman that surface precipitation water drainage has always been a municipal task, and this is also reflected in the financing of the task. The bill is intended to settle where there is no road network maintained by the municipalities or a railway line passing through the inner territory of the municipality, and this is accompanied by drainage ditches. Here, the law concludes the debate between the transport network operators, which states that these drainages belong to the maintenance of the road operator and the railway undertaking. Once again, the municipalities have always been responsible for surface drainage in the settlement, so they have not received any new tasks, and the task funding for these tasks included resources. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4899. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[17 .30]]
u2015-06-09-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, XLII 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies submitted by the Government of Hungary. T/4899. The bill contains the necessary and essential amendments before the entry into force of the new law introducing the law on law enforcement career model. XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The new salary scheme was designed to allow for an average of 50 per cent of the average salary development over a five-year period, and not only for the 2015 financial year. ANNEX II ensure an average salary increase of 30 per cent for the 6th half of the year. Following an average salary increase of 30 per cent from 1 July 2015, from 1 January 2016 for a period of four years, budget coverage to allow an average additional salary increase of 5 to 5 per cent for professional staff will be provided. As part of the increase in salaries through the amendment of the law, performance benefits will be introduced from 2017. Dear Parliament, The increase in 2016 should in any event serve to shift to the new classification system and increase the standard of living of the stock. When the law was drafted, it was formulated as a basic principle that the new law does not define transitional tables for the calculation of salaries, but only provides for a transition to the new salary system through transitional provisions. This transitional provision provides for the application of the new salary scheme from 1 January 2016 following a short, only six-month transitional period. However, the introduction of the new salary scheme in its entirety is only possible in the 5th year, i.e. as from 1 January 2019, thus ensuring an average salary increase of 50 per cent compared to the current salary of the law enforcement professional staff as of 1 January 2019. On this basis, it is essential to correct the transitional provision. Dear Parliament, It is therefore clear that this proposed amendment does not mean that the introduction of a law enforcement career model should be postponed. Measures to estimate public service workers will continue in 2016. In the framework of the armed and police career model, from July this year, the salary of soldiers and law enforcement workers will increase by an average of 30 percent and then by an additional 5-5 percent per year until 2019. In 2016, the budget will provide HUF 121.7 billion to cover a total increase of 35 percent. In the case of civil servants working in armed and law enforcement areas, a further 5% increase will follow this year's increase. With the entry into force of the new law, the new law enforcement career model will be introduced from 1 July 2015. The purpose of this amendment is to adapt the date of the final transition to the new salary system to the date of 1 January 2019 according to the schedule originally laid down, thus guaranteeing that, on the basis of the possibilities provided for by the new law, an average salary increase of 50 per cent can actually take place from 1 January 2019. Dear Parliament, In addition, the national command status of the commander of the Parliamentary Guard is set out in the proposal. Due to the specific status and special organisational structure of the Parliamentary Guard for law enforcement bodies, in particular with regard to the fact that part of the employer's powers are exercised by the President of Parliament, it is appropriate to regulate the rights of employers listed in the proposal at the statutory level. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-09-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government has promised law-sanctioned wage increases and predictable careers that ensure continuous progress to law enforcement workers - let us say, this unbrokenly, as it has always promised in the previous cycle - that is what the new law of service was all about, and despite numerous serious errors, the MSZP fraction voted for it on 14 April. This bill had a long debate in Parliament and before that with the profession, social organisations, and, in many ways, it withdrew with regard to the completely wrong provision of the government side, but it was a point of this bill, which achieved that the Hungarian Parliament voted in favour of the Hungarian Parliament by a majority of over 97%, and that all parties with parliamentary factions voted in favour, it was about getting a new career and a new salary system for the people working in this area. This bill, which is now in front of us, is about how, before the law enters into force on 1 July, the government intends to amend this bill in one of its most important elements, in connection with the introduction of the salary system, before its entry into force; if I am to put it simply, it is simply deceiving these 70,000 people, as well as the parties in Parliament and the representatives sitting here. It was not in the parliamentary debate, in the discussions, that in such a respect, with their policy of swinging Members and Parliament and stakeholders, you had the parliament adopt a law on 1 January 2016 and then, a few weeks later, you submitted another, that, oh, sorry, not 1 January 2016, that number was written, that was not a six, but a nine, only the other way around. That's not how it works, Mr. Secretary. There are two options here. So you're not going to introduce the salary system. I'm not talking about a raise, I'm talking about the salary system. [[Charles Kontra wags his head.]] Despite wagging his head, Secretary of State, this bill postpones the application of the salary system until 1 January 2019. The Secretary of State may not know what a salary system is, but this is still the case in the bill submitted by himself. Mr. Secretary, it doesn't work that way. Or the fact is that the Ministry of Interior could not calculate, implement the bill adopted by Parliament not so long ago, and could not accurately calculate and implement what is in the law in terms of the new career system and system of advancement for 70,000 people, so it must be said, because then the wage increase itself is no longer in danger. Or the worst variation is that you calculated it, and you realized that there was no cover for what was originally in this law. And how likely the latter is, I must make three reasons for that. One is that you submit the bill 4. If the current regular remuneration would give rise to more than 30 per cent of the salary, the member of the professional staff would be entitled to the 150. Instead of the basic salary referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, a basic salary shall be paid at a rate of 30 per cent. This seems to be a legal twist, it's about one: you're not going to give 30 percent on average here, you're going to give 30 percent on average, and what's the difference between the two, if you don't know, then I suggest that you get in a position in your life once you know the difference between the average 30 percent and the maximum 30 percent on average; one. Two, you justify delaying the salary system by providing a further 5-5-5% increase, this is official communication. It is quite interesting that they did not know this on 14 April when this law was passed by Parliament. But the fact that what they say is not true was found at the annual hearing of the Defence Committee of the Minister for Defence of Hende Csaba, where the Minister of Defence proudly reported that the same 30 percent wage increase in the defence area, plus a 5-5 percent annual wage increase, guarantees that the law will enter into force on 1 January in the defence area, that the increase in the salary base is included in the budget for next year, and that the additional 5 percent wage increase is covered by the Ministry of Defence's own budget. [[17.40]] A basic salary shall be paid instead of the basic salary referred to in paragraph 1 at a rate that results in a 30 per cent increase in salary. This seems to be a legal twist, it's about one: you're not going to give 30 percent on average here, you're going to give 30 percent on average, and what's the difference between the two, if you don't know, then I suggest that you get in a position in your life once you know the difference between the average 30 percent and the maximum 30 percent on average; one. Two, you justify delaying the salary system by providing a further 5-5-5% increase, this is official communication. It is quite interesting that they did not know this on 14 April when this law was passed by Parliament. But the fact that what they say is not true was found at the annual hearing of the Defence Committee of the Minister for Defence of Hende Csaba, where the Minister of Defence proudly reported that the same 30 percent wage increase in the defence area, plus a 5-5 percent annual wage increase, guarantees that the law will enter into force on 1 January in the defence area, that the increase in the salary base is included in the budget for next year, and that the additional 5 percent wage increase is covered by the Ministry of Defence's own budget. (17.40) The Home Office doesn't have a crooked penny in their budget. The law will not enter into force, and it will not rise now - if I remember correctly - for the eighth year, at some point in 2008, if I remember correctly, the last time the previous socialist government raised the basic salary, since then you have not raised a penny, nor are you planning to raise a penny on the basic salary of the police next year. In Hungarian: they claim that everyone closes their eyes and believe that you will take care of this, the Ministry of the Interior will take care of this, the Prime Minister's Office will have 135 billion forints, which will be enough for 70,000 law enforcement employees. The only difference is the fact that the same career model is being introduced at the same time in the field of military and law enforcement, and one of them somehow manages to bring it into effect fairly, raise the basic salary, put the 5 percent increase in the budget next year, and the 70,000 employees of the law enforcement system will not be able to do so. And once again, your argument is to believe that this will happen. Well, who believes what you believe is one thing, but I'm sure if I were a soldier, I'd be a little calmer than the law enforcement officers, who at least have a law guarantee that this will happen. So I'd like to return to the fundamental question of why this happened. And, Mr. Secretary, we'd like to have a clear answer here as to why they don't do it the way they do it in the army. Why don't you raise the basic salary? Why can't they guarantee a wage increase in law? Why isn't this money in the Home Office's budget? Is it because it's been calculated and the new career model can't be introduced because there's not enough money? They're just not putting it in here so that no one over 30 percent can get it, even if they're legally entitled to it, because they've been calculated and it turns out that they should raise everyone's salary or pay a lot of people's salary if they want to introduce the new salary system. The fact is that the latter is likely to be the most likely, it is likely that the career system and the associated salary system, which you have dreamed of, and what Parliament has accepted, there is no real cover for the implementation of it. The reason for this is that you are not only pushing it by half a year, because, let's say, we did not have time to create the regulations fairly, but by almost three years, and will soon make it the first budgetary task of the next government to manage the new salary system somehow, from 1 January 2019. We think that this is unacceptable and nonsense in this regard, especially the procedure. The salary base will be HUF 38 650 next year, as I said, unchanged since 2008. What is even more revealing is whether or not there may be a financial problem here, is precisely the rule on which Mr Secretary of State skipped quickly, but he mentioned that performance benefits will be postponed until spring 2017. Where, according to the recently adopted and not yet in force law, law enforcement would have received the money in the next spring, which is that those who work well will do their benchmarking, and those who work very well will receive a reward twice a year, but under a closed, fair system, we also supported this. What is the reason why this is not being introduced, Mr. Secretary, apart from the fact that there is no money? You're gonna have to give me a good reason that we have a performance review in the police and the professionals, and they're gonna do the benchmarking, but they're not gonna get any money for it. But the fact that the situation is even worse shows that on 1 July, with the entry into force of the current law, you will abolish the current diversion system for professional personnel. At present, it was possible to hijack certain specific performances, to reward higher performances, or to motivate colleagues otherwise. You will take these away on 1 July, and instead you will not give a penny until 2017, a year and a half. These hijackings can be up to 30 percent in Hungarian: they take 30 percent, they give 30 percent wage increase, people will be where they are, and in return they will not receive any other reward, so there will be no such great progress in their lives. This is also a problem, because obviously people will be disappointed, but the worst part is that one or a half months ago you did not pass this law with the Hungarian Parliament. Here's a five-percent and ten-percent raise for public employees. Where is this, Minister, in the law? So the fact that you put it in the justification of this law and in the justification of the budget law, I think you know from the legislative agenda that the justification is not a normative category. Neither does the Home Office budget cover this, nor does the civil servant pay table raise any money with a penny, and you put it in a legal statement that it will be, yes, it will be. I hope that this will be the case, but it would be much more reassuring in terms of stock, if this money were available either in this law or in the Finance Act, in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, and it would not depend on the good cheer of János Lázár or the government, or on any economic situation or emergency situation, whether that money is being taken away or not. As far as the regulation of the Parliamentary Guard is concerned, it is a logical regulation, but the fact is that it points out how nonsense this Parliamentary Guard's public-law situation is, because here the employer's status is being corrected, and it becomes clear that László Kövér will be given ministerial powers and ministerial powers as President of the Parliament in relation to a law enforcement body. This is also what we talked about at the moment when the Parliamentary Guard was set up, that it was nonsense that the President of the Parliament, no matter what color, would get a driving licence over an armed law enforcement body without being burdened by government responsibility. He is not interoperable, he cannot be asked by a parliamentary committee, he cannot be held accountable in any way for any instructions given to the law enforcement authorities. Of course, except for the criminal charges, which would be good if it never happened, but it's a joke. That the Minister of the Interior, that the Minister of Defence reports annually on his authority over armed law enforcement agencies, can be controlled by the parliamentary committee, that Parliament's plenary session may ask for it, and that the Speaker of Parliament now has the authority of an armed law enforcement body for ministers, that in this respect no one in the world can ask him why he did this, how he did it! Last time there was a procurement scandal in front of the public, there was no one to ask, but the commander of the Parliamentary Guard could be dragged into a committee meeting, the responsible political decision-maker, the Speaker of Parliament, no one here can ask about anything. So I think that in this form and with the explanations that the government or the Ministry of Interior has been able to make in this case, this law is a scandalum at the moment of its submission, and ever since. They could not explain why the Ministry of Defence had the money, why the law would enter into force, and why Csaba Hende, I would quote literally: "You were right, Congressman, this guarantees wage increases for the Hungarians. It's that the law comes into force and that the Ministry of Defence has the money in its budget. Then what guarantee do you have in the police sector, Mr. Secretary of State, that by shifting the salary system, by the way, 70,000 employees will receive their salary increase, that next year they will not withdraw the money from the PM's provisions, or will they not spend it in any other area of public administration, as this money is labeled in the current law? I would be very happy if we could get an explanation acceptable to both the public and the 70,000 people involved, because what we have heard so far is not an acceptable explanation and only raises further doubts about everyone. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-09-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-06-09-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to point out that I will now state the common position of the Fidesz-KDNP. Before that, I only say to my vice-president, Tamás Harangozó, that he asked the same questions, of course, to the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior gave the answer at that committee meeting on defence and police. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I didn't get an answer! Maybe it wasn't the same committee meeting.]] where the report of the Minister of the Interior was made. Of course, I also know the part where you asked the Minister of Defence, because we are on a committee. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: And the two contradicted, yes.]] So that's all I can say. And before that, we were both involved in the five-party preparations that the Minister of the Interior called on this subject. [[17.50]] So, honourable House, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend the 2015 law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies contains technical amendments. It has already been said before me that it is necessary to clarify the text of the bill adopted with high support in order to be appropriate in all respects. The current proposal clarifies the range of heads of law enforcement bodies that are national commanders by supplementing the current list with the commander of the Parliamentary Guard that has already been mentioned. The amendment does not lead to any substantive change compared to the current rules. The other clarification has already led to misunderstandings. When the 2015 law on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies was drawn up, the new salary system was designed to provide not only an average increase of 30 per cent for the second half of 2015 but also an opportunity to raise salaries for a longer period of four years. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Conversation.]] At the same time, it was formulated as a basic principle that Hst. it does not set out transitional tables on the method of calculating the salary, but only provides for a transition to the new salary system through transitional provisions. Shh. These transitional provisions provided for the full application of the new salary scheme as from 1 January 2016 following a short, only six-month transitional period and therefore need to be corrected. [[Adam Mirkóczki: There is no need to read it! Károly Kontra: Patience!]] The provisions on the salary increase of the 2015 Law on the employment relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies are indisputable, as stated by the Ministry of the Interior: the professional staff will receive a systemic 50 percent wage development, divided into five years. This will result in an average salary increase of 30 per cent per stock category, with effect from 1 July 2015. The staff members shall then receive an average increase of 5 per cent per year from 1 January 2016 until 1 January 2019. Hungary's central budget for 2015 covers additional expenditure related to the introduction of armed and police careers. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP supports the bill. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It's written here for him! Károly Kontra: Patience!]] Thank you very much for your attention. We trust what the Minister of the Interior has said, and the Ministry of the Interior has said in this regard in recent years, either at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee or here, the Secretary of State Kontra. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-115	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to repeat those concerns and criticisms literally, although I could do what my fellow Member Bellozó said, but I would also like to draw attention to one thing. When this career model and this good law came to a consensus despite any criticism, it was precisely the salary system that all the factions supported, and we thought that this was the minimum, and despite various mistakes and comments, it was not possible and it was not possible to say no, precisely because of the professional stock. Then, when this proposal came into being, everyone got their heads on it, and then I put it mildly: professional and trade union opinion makers and opposition parties, because there are two strange things here. Then came this meeting of the ominous Defence and Police Committee, when Sándor Pintér's hearing was held, and I wanted to believe that if he said in front of journalists, in front of cameras, that there was no problem, that the 30 percent average wage increase would take place on 1 July, we should believe that it would be so. Then I've accepted that it's good, then there must be some confusion, and then it'll be sort of settled. But perhaps shortly after that, exactly what my fellow Member Bellozó mentioned, Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence, had to be heard, he was the one who, in my opinion, also doubted who thought he could believe Sándor Pintér, and we do not have to worry. Because what my fellow Member Bellozó read was literally said. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that, indeed, the budget of the Ministry of Defence clearly shows what is necessary for the introduction and entry into force of the career model, and if we look at the budget of the Ministry of Interior, even in relation to the previous year, it cannot be seen there. So it's very difficult here, but it's a 30-percent wage increase for 70,000 people, obviously a huge amount, that should appear in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. This is one of the points of concern that contradicts what has just been said here. And the other, I'd like to read this literally, the 354. The member of the professional staff shall be entitled to the remuneration under this Act after 1 January 2019. ..2019! I think that in order for all opposition parties to have the support of this proposal, and for everyone to be able to accept or accept with the same consensus clearly and reassuringly - you can get this proposal to be adopted - these two fundamental things need to be clarified. On the one hand, where is the budget space containing this multibillion-dollar item? Secondly, this text is clearly about 2019. So I think that there are legitimate concerns and legitimate criticisms that were not in place when the original proposal was adopted a few months ago or a few weeks ago, because there it was very clear in black and white. But since then, a budget has come in, and, again, if anyone looks at it, compared to last year, it's not. So which is the budget table or which is the line where we should find it, where it is from July 1st, and what amount of money is included in the salary increase of the 70,000 workers? [[Charles Kontra nods.]] So I'll take it, if I have it and see it, then it's okay. But I'll tell you one more time, it's kind of a problem. And once again, there's this one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one. §, it doesn't take a great lingistic sense to interpret this, so it means January 1, 2019. So how do you interpret that? If I get a clear and exact answer to these two criticisms or comments, then I say it's okay, because obviously we don't want to spot it with 70,000 employees. But I think that if you continue to claim that the average 30 percent wage increase will take place on 1 July and that it will not happen, then obviously you have a responsibility. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. We now have a speech from Congressman Péter Kónya, independent. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-118	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, What you have just done by amending the Service Act can be evaluated in two words: professional dilettantism. You worked for months to develop a career model for law enforcement workers, and then you got it accepted by Parliament, and then you just brought it here for two weeks in a legislative amendment to push it off for a few more years. [[18.00]] The current situation is very similar to the 1996 situation, when our law of service was adopted. It was still about the immediate introduction of obligations while the acceptance of salaries was postponed by three years. I know there's a wage development planned, and that's not what it's about. But you promised the staff a new career model, a three-legged, three-proof chair, a three-legged career model. One element of this was the new salary system, the other part of the service housing system, and you want to introduce a life insurance system that in some way triggers the former service pension system. The last two elements were not intended to be introduced in the first place, only years later, now it seems that the third element of this chair leg, or the leg of this chair, had been broken before it was introduced. It's not the first time you've fooled the herd. They cheated when their service pension system was abolished, cheated when pensioners had been taken away from their retirement status, cheated when they imposed a penalty tax on those who paid for their services, and now cheated when they announced to the public that they would give a new career model to law enforcement workers, and compared to that they would implement wage development, but not the career model. While it's not about tightening up and tightening up the rules that are being introduced by the law, they're gonna push it away. For example, it is possible to reduce law enforcement workers, professional staff, if they are placed in a lower position. This seems to be introduced, and the new salary system is not part of the career model. So what I can tell you is that it would be good for you to find the person responsible, who has worked or worked for months to develop a career model and a salary system that is inaccessible. Are you responsible for this, Mr. Secretary? And I can tell you that there's no way to support that. The stock was waiting for the new salary system, waiting for the new career model, you just dragged it away as a honeycomb, and you're not going to introduce it. So I think they should be ashamed of themselves. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-06-09-119	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-09-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Just to go on with what Peter Konya started here, let's talk about specifics, because here some of us have been digging a little bit, even if we don't dare to pretend that we know what we're doing, but we've been dealing with it a lot. The new salary system, which is included in this new Hst., says that from now on the salary will look like basic salary plus allowances plus performance benefits. That's what they promised, that's what the National Assembly accepted. You will now postpone this until 1 January 2019. In addition, the basic salary shall consist of a post salary, additional duties and a professional allowance. It's the new system. We supported this, saying that, yes, we thought so too, and we have often described this professionally, that we need a salary system that fits the positions and the specific tasks carried out there, not that which is now boned up. Because that's where the salary system can be operated differentiated so that there's a huge difference between two similar posts, whether in competence or under strain, and a salary system should be able to handle that. This new one could handle it. Compared to this, Mr Secretary of State, which is now submitted to the Act, it makes it clear that this will not enter into force until 1 January 2019. The extent to which it is so, it has also been specifically stated that any change in the duty schedule, in relation, should be regarded as having been transferred or promoted in 2017, as if it had occurred on 30 June 2015, i.e. the day before the introduction of the law. That's an interesting legal term, by the way. But that's not uncommon in Unortodoxia. In English, they make it clear that until 1 January 2019 you will freeze the current salary system. It would be especially nice to hear what will happen, as Peter Kónya said, after the introduction of the system of advancement. I'm gonna look at BM experts here, see if they can give me some smoke signals or something. Secretary of State, as of 1 July, it will be introduced that the rank is attached, for example, to the rank. The current positions will be headlined, for example, a person may decline by 2-3 levels compared to his post, he can use his old rank as a title, but in the current salary system, which you will freeze on June 30, 2015, for example, he has a grade salary. It's not much money, but there is. So, in the new system, as of July 1st, you'll be throwing someone back from Colonel to Major, and you'll be able to keep your rank as colonel, so to speak, but what's more interesting is what happens to your colonel's allowance, for example. Can you answer that, Mr. Secretary? How are you going to introduce all the other parts of your career and, by the way, the salary system, the salary system of an old career model, for another three years? How will these questions be answered? Professional allowance is not available on 30 June 2015, Mr. Secretary of State. No. There's no professional substitute today. There are all kinds of replacements today. Then with the regulations that have now been published about who is a professional, who is not a professional, who will receive professional allowances, what will they do with that? As of June 30, 2015, this will not be introduced for another three years. Obviously, the schedule salary, the extra hours of service that the salary would consist of, is also the peas we've been listening to, because the current system is frozen and added 30 percent. Our biggest problem is that our questions, beyond what is the real reason for this right now, and we really want an answer to that, how will the new career work if the salary system stays the same. Once again, I want you to answer, for example, how your grade salary system will work from now on when you're tied to a post. And as we know, what is quite funny in the new law, we have tried to draw attention to it, a general rank can be taken away from July 1 if the person who wears it does not in the future occupy a post that is general under the new law. That is what I asked at the committee's meeting about how to imagine this, as the President of the Republic gives the rank of general with his own decision to present the minister, and there is usually a more serious general rank ceremony up at the Alexander Palace. Will such star-breaking events occur in the future, where, on the recommendation of the Minister of Interior, a star will be torn from the generals? And they'll ask for the red striped uniform back, and President Áder will wrap it up for better times. It's all a joke. But also the general's grade salary, tell me, how are you going to apply it in this new system? Obviously, when this law starts, there will be a thousand and such questions that we will not be answered today, and what this, if I remember correctly, called a one-and-a-sided or two-page bill, does not answer at all, either in the text of the norm or in its justification. Thank you very much, and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's professionally substantiated answers. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-121	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, has spoken. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, During these speeches, you nodded, yes or no, so that everything was all right. Now I just want a clear answer to that: 353. §, I suppose this is what you refer to, paragraphs 3 and 5 would guarantee, in principle, a wage increase from 1 July 2015. Paragraph 3 is clearly stated: in the case of a member of a professional staff classified as a member of the duty department of an officer's or deputy officer's rank who, on 30 June 2015, serves as a member of the duty post established for the basic duties of the law enforcement body, the salary increase shall be 30 per cent. This also applies to the members of the management post, for whom 15 per cent. [[18.10]] But how do you agree that the next paragraph and the 354 say the opposite, which we have already talked about, is a member of the professional staff entitled to pay in accordance with this law after 1 January 2019? So what's in room 353, then in room 354, there's something very messy here, or someone made a big mistake, because it's completely contrary to each other, no matter how you interpret it, in black and white. So it's either necessary to modify it, if you're right, and the average 30 percent increase is actually made on 1 July, or, in the case of drivers, the 15 percent or 353 need to be modified, let's not fool each other, but 2019, because these two paragraphs are completely contradicting each other. I think that's why everyone feels that something - and I'm putting it mildly - really doesn't add up. So be kind enough to answer that, because it will continue to be either a huge mistake or a deliberate legal trick. Because, I'm gonna say this again, if someone reads this one after another, they're totally contradicting each other. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-09-124	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank Mr Bellozó for waiting for my answer, because he has asked a lot of questions and I would like to answer them, and I would like to make it clear that I hope that there is only a misunderstanding from the representatives of opposition parties, MSZP and Jobbik, that they misunderstand this situation. I would like to say, as Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér said here in the general debate on the 2016 budget, that the measures taken to honour public service workers will continue in 2016 and the salary of soldiers and law enforcement workers will increase by an average of 30 percent from July this year, and by an additional 5-5 percent per year until 2019. In 2016 the total amount is 35 percent... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Law! By law!]] I have also listened to you, Congressman, thank you for listening to me. In 2016 the budget will provide HUF 121.7 billion to cover a total increase of 35 percent - I say to Congressman Mirkóczki -..., this is 2016 which is currently being negotiated. In the case of civil servants working in armed and law enforcement areas, a further 5% increase will follow this year's increase. I would also like to say on this point - because Mr Bellozó asked what the guarantee was - that a ministerial decree will be made on this, on the increase of civil servants' salaries. I would therefore like to make this clear and clear, as Minister of Interior Pintér and Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga said, from 1 July 2015 there will be an average increase of 30 per cent for professional law enforcement workers. I have two arguments, Congressmen, which justify my right. On the one hand, in July 2015, each professional receives its reclassification, so the reclassification paper clearly sees how his salary is paid, and at the beginning of August 2015, when the money arrives in his account, he clearly sees that the money has arrived. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] Congressman, allow this chance to be given to professional staff so that they can trust that this increase will actually happen. My second argument is that you opposition representatives - and I hope they will be - will continue to control the government, control the government's activities, and if, in plenary, they will be able to comment on Parliamentary genres, interpellation, immediate questions, questions or during the Commission's hearing, to verify the government's activities, if they do experience contradictions. I ask you to exercise this right and do so, but do not object to it in the first place and do not doubt that this increase will be achieved. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] As regards the question asked by MEP Ádám Mirkóczki where the 2015 is and where its source is: Member, in the chapter of the Prime Minister's Office, there is HUF 44 billion for the increase in the second half of 2015, i.e. from 1 July to 31 December, so there is HUF 44 billion, which is available for law enforcement and soldiers. In 2016, an increase of HUF 121.7 billion is available. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Where is that?]] I would like to answer to Mr Bellozó, what is the guarantee that the salary will rise until 2019, if the salary base does not change - this question has also been asked by the Member. In response to this, I would like to say that the multiplying figures in the law guarantee that this increase, increase, increase of 50%, will be achieved by 2019. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That will not enter into force!]] And by the way, from the beginning, from the beginning, from the negotiations, everywhere, the five-party, which took place at two paces, in two circles, we said... [[There's thunder coming from outside. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Skybreak! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It's skybreak! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Secretary of State says things like that! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Foreman Novak: We should text people to close the window!]] - we said that a 30% increase from 1 July 2015 and an additional 5-5 from 1 January 2015, so the average 50 percent comes out. So once again - and I am in good faith, I would like to believe that our betterman and especially MSZP fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó misunderstood - that it is not a matter of delaying the increase in fees, they will be achieved, as originally said, so from 1 July 2015 and from 1 January 2015 onwards, and this will be completed on 1 January 2019, they will achieve an average increase of 50 per cent. Anyone who changes his schedule - that was the question of Congressman Bellozó - what about his salary? You will receive your new salary in proportion to your salary increase by 2019, so this is my answer to your question. As regards the grade salary - you also asked - there is no grade salary because it is tied to the post and the post salary already includes this, and this is expressed, Congressman. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: But it will not enter into force!]] So once again, as of 1 July, this law, the increases, the salary increases will take place. I'm asking you not to dissuade professional personnel. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] , the staff will receive the transfer in July, receive the first raised salary at the beginning of August and will receive it gradually and continuously each month. From 1 January 2016, you will receive the additional 5% increase from 1 January 2016 and the additional 5% increase from 1 January 2016 and from 1 January 2016 respectively. I would ask you to keep an eye on him here in Parliament, and to say that if this does not happen, but do not doubt the stock, do not take away the joy that lies in the belief that their salary will increase, their appreciation will also increase. I would like to express my thanks for supporting this proposal in the previous five-party negotiations, and once again: I consider this to be a misunderstanding, that it is understood that this will not be introduced. Once again, what Mr Bellozó said about why this is mentioned is a clarification that instead of 1 January 16, 1 January 19, because we always said that they would reach 50% by 1 January 2019 [[Peter Konya intervenes.]] I'd like to make that clear. I answered the question about civil servants. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] I responded to the execution of the collateral. I would like to thank Mr Firtl Mátyás for his support proposal on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. I answered the questions asked by Congressman Adam Mirkóczki about where his cover is and how this is happening. I trust that this answer is acceptable. And once again, I would like to say that the Member should monitor the steps needed to implement this, since the law will enter into force on 1 July 2015, so there is no delay, and when professionals receive the reclassification and payment, they will experience that this increase will be implemented. I also trust, I also trust, and I believe that the operation of the government so far is a guarantee that these salaries and career models will be fully implemented in all three respects, i.e. the salary increase, housing support or insurance system, and in this way the Hungarian Parliament expresses its appreciation for the high-quality service performed by professional staff in the public interest. [[18.20]] In view of this, I ask the House, my honourable Members, that, since I have answered all the questions and I hope that I have been able to give a reassuring answer to the questions that have been said, support this proposal, because they will also contribute to a greater order in Hungary, there will be greater public security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-09-125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2011 CXXXII on National University of Public Service, Public Administration, Police and Military Higher Education. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/5050. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-126	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure consistency between the Act on National University of Public Service and the T/4767 on certain amendments to the law on the regulation of higher education to be discussed by the National Assembly. Act No 1 and Act No XLII 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies already adopted by the Parliament. Law. The T/4767. A package of laws on higher education removes the concept of the training arm and amends the conditions for qualification as a university, to which the National University of Public Service already fully complies. The law on the service of professional staff of law enforcement bodies introduces the status of candidate officer. The person admitted to the basic law school by day will be assigned to a candidate post by the conclusion of a scholarship agreement. Official candidates for law enforcement bodies should have the same rules as candidates for military officers. However, checks on sound living are relevant for basic law enforcement purposes. The first candidate year will be the first year of their studies after 1 July 2016, and the previous students will continue and complete their studies as public service scholarships. These provisions and related additional clarifications shall enter into force on 1 July 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is to introduce the provisions necessary to transform the National University of Public Service into a higher education institution. This amendment is based on the Government's 2014 decision to set up the State Reform Committee, in which the Government agreed to transform the National University of Public Service into a higher education institution, and the government still considers that uniform education in state sciences is necessary. In the text of the Act on the National University of Public Service, the texts of the Act on the National University of Public Service are replaced by the words "State Sciences and Public Administration," while the Act on Higher Education may be amended accordingly. The amendment expands the legal concept of administrative higher education by the designation of state sciences. The concept of higher education in public administration is defined as the 2011 CXXXII. Law, i.e. the Law on the National University of Public Service, sets out the purpose of establishing a branch of higher education training that is specifically prepared for the career of its officials. As one of the institutional guarantees of this, the Act defines the Minister for Public Administration Development as also responsible for the supervision of higher administrative education and the maintenance of the National University of Public Service. As part of the implementation of the law, in 2011, the so-called legal and administrative training area, which was previously regulated as a single training area, was separated and the legal training area, practically legal training, also became independent. The administrative expert needs more extensive knowledge than is provided by the current training of lawyers. Lawyers play an important role, especially in the field of legislative and enforcement tasks, but do not have the diverse knowledge of administrative, public management and sector policy that an official, a professional administrative expert, should have. Administrative higher education is broadened by the proposal to include the field of state science. State science is a complex knowledge of the operation, organisation and task of the state. Public administration and its training and research are core materials of state science. State sciences must be trained by officials who are preparing for a career in public service leadership and a high level of service of the state. Therefore, in the field of state science, replacements should be trained in undivided master's courses as proposed, i.e. five years of training. A postgraduate master level of state science is also needed in the career of public service leaders. According to the law, the National University of Public Service, as a core institution for public service training, is responsible for preparing the education of state science for higher levels of public service careers, and the wallet exercising the maintenance rights of the university is responsible for linking the training with the needs of public service development and careers. The role and responsibility of legal training in the development of state life and public administration remains invaluable, ensuring the legal replacement of public administration. The good division of tasks between the National University of Public Service and the Law Schools is a national interest. It is a good example of the fact that the university carries out the further training of officials throughout the country with the involvement of all legal faculties. The legislative emphasis on state science puts the training of this area in the right place, in particular with regard to the public service career and the quality of its officials' supplies. In the government's analysis of the situation of legal education, it has become clear that education of traditional subjects of state sciences has been excluded from legal training for the past 20 years. The legal system has become more complex and multi-layered, and 10 semesters of training is now basically sufficient for the detailed transfer of legal knowledge, while in the case of state sciences it is enough to create a basic knowledge. At the same time, the legal faculties can continue to conduct complex state research, and in so doing the use of the state-science clause with the responsibility of its founders. The planned introduction of the National University of Public Service of the Masters of State Science will allow the detailed processing of traditional and new subjects of state science, which are excluded from legal training, and which have emerged and are constantly evolving in international scientific development. Of course, legal expertise is a key part of this training, but not at the level that is currently taking place in legal education. So the two majors - law and state sciences - are basically complementary to each other. The proposal therefore establishes a framework for developing a rapidly changing set of conditions for the operation of the modern state and a specific knowledge content that meets the professional needs of the government sector. In the process of public service advancement, the master's training of state sciences must be integrated. The aim of the training should therefore be to ensure that public service managers are able to manage state tasks in a complex manner, with a system approach to public human capital, to carry out high levels of planning, strategic and analytical tasks, to effectively manage state organisation and public operation. All my fellow Members, who have already taken a role in the government as state leaders, know exactly how much the shortage of such professionals is. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is also to make clear that only the National University of Public Service can carry out higher education in the field of state science and administration, law enforcement, military, national security and international and European public service, and that graduates in the field of state science are entitled to use a doctoral title, similar to lawyers. The Act on the National University of Public Service currently contains the provision that public administration, police, military, national security and international and European public service higher education training may start on the basis of the prior authorisation of the supervising minister. The Minister of Supervisory may therefore decide to have training only at the University of Public Service in relation to the higher education concerned. In this context, it is necessary to indicate that no other higher education institution will start courses in administrative, police and military training areas from autumn this year, especially as a result of the Minister of Supervision. The exclusivity of the National University of Public Service in the fields of state science and administration, law enforcement, military, national security and international and European public service higher education is justified because it was clear from the start of the university that training should be carried out at the university that could not be carried out in other higher education institutions. [[18.30]] For decades, such training has been available only in the institutions of the University's predecessor for law enforcement, military, disaster management and national security. With regard to higher education in the field of state sciences and public administration, training will become completely unique by developing the university into a university of state sciences. In addition to exclusivity, there is a special relationship between the maintenance staff and the university, the rights of the maintenance staff are wider than those of other higher education institutions. The Law on the National University of Public Service already refers to the power of the Maintenance Board to approve the training and research programme of the University and to the adoption of an institutional development plan for the development of the university. With real content, the maintenance body, representing the government, determines the content, volume and professional expectations of the training. These are maintenance permissions which do not exist in any other higher education institution. This link is also necessary for the success of the implementation of training, which is therefore not the case for other higher education institutions. The funding of the university is also unique compared to other higher education institutions. The university is not in the chapter of the Ministry of Human Resources, but in the budgetary perspective of the Prime Minister's Office. The National University of Public Service Act provides for task-based funding, which is adapted to current maintenance needs. In the context of this amendment, we intend to settle this issue definitively. This amendment also requires the amendment of the Higher Education Act, which, of course, is also included in the bill. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to support the bill in the light of the above. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-06-09-128	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! We've got a bill coming up from the university. The Ministry of Education in all countries, which oversees universities, is not only here in person, but also as an author. I do not think that they are not here because they spend time elsewhere, it is perhaps worth having an autopsy on how it can be that we are talking about Hungary's university for major development in a separate bill, and then the minister, the secretary of state, the wallet that is responsible for universities and education, is not here in the debate of the law either. In fact, if you read the law carefully, you can see that it is not only in this capacity, but that this university does not have the right to propose, and the portfolio responsible for education does not have any license at all. This is a university that is not subject to education, because for example, the 6th University. I read that the Minister responsible for public administration development is empowered to decide by decree with the agreement of the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Police - and then describe what. The wallet in charge of education is not mentioned here either. I must say to you that this is not a division of labour, but - and this must be said before the public in Parliament - a professional debate that is, by the way, insufferable for educational professionals. This university does not fit into the ranks of Hungarian higher education, the National University of Public Service is part of the political vision of the current respected government. This university is not based on a professional basis, this university is based on political foundations. Therefore, perhaps we should consider what is behind this political intention, why there is no specific law on the most prestigious and famous university in the country, the Eötvös Loránd University; there is no special law on Budapest University of Technology, but there is no law on Debrecen, the University of Pécs or the University of Szeged, because we are going to discuss these in the law of higher education on Friday. Oops, what a weird coincidence. In a week we will discuss the state of higher education together, the legislation that wants to amend it, and within 72 hours there is a law on higher education on the table of Parliament, but a law on university will not be included in the debate of the Higher Education Act in 72 hours, nor can it be said that for some reason they do not want to change higher education. Yes, you can. They've prepared a strategy, you can criticize it, you can agree with it. They have opened the Higher Education Act, giving Parliament a big reaction to the amendment of the law called the National Higher Education Act, and there is a university that we are not talking about within the framework of higher education, but a separate law, the author of which is not the wallet responsible for education, but the Prime Minister's Office - or anyone. In Europe and not only in the European Union, I have not heard of a single university of higher education, an institution of higher education, whose activities the government wanted to modify, it was not amended within the framework of the Higher Education Act, but by a separate law. Let us really look at the basis of this amendment. This, by the way, was said by the Secretary of State, or by the person who wrote the text. It happens that only the university is entitled to pursue higher education activities in the field of state sciences and partly in the field of state sciences, as well as the National University of Public Service. I think that the legislator is not careful here, because he does not understand state sciences well. We need to see what we call state science. With all due respect, the category of state sciences includes state theory. Then let us follow what is happening in practice in Hungarian higher education. The first Hungarian educator of state theory was a great Transylvanian man, Farkas Kovacsóczy, his famous work: De gubernatione Transylvaniae, published in 1598 in Transylvania. I suggest that if this law is passed, first you send a message to the University of Szeged, the University of Eötvös Loránd, Debrecen and Szeged, so that they do not dare to further teach the first work of Hungarian state theory and the activity of Farkas Kovacsóczy, because in this law it is only - as state theory, believe it, is part of state science - in the text of the law that the National University of Public Service is entitled to do so. But while you're at it, I don't think you should stop here. Make it legal that Plato can only be taught in Szeged. Anyone who at the University of Debrecen, the Eötvös Loránd University or Kaposvár dares to pronounce Plato's name is a violator of this law, and those who break the law must be held liable for at least breaking the law. I also suggest that it be appointed that Aristotle can only be taught in Debrecen, because this division of labour is right. That is why I ask you to include in the legislation that anyone who is now teaching Budapest, Pécs or Aristotle in Miskolc is in breach of this law in Hungary, because I quote once again: only this university is entitled to do so. But if you find a professor who teaches Hugo Grotius, the father of international law - his basic work: De iure belli ac pacis, Paris, 1625 - it is, please, in accordance with this law, unless he is a teacher of the National University of Public Service, he may even be in handcuffs, because he is, after all, in such a way as to violate this law. And I suggest that, at the prime minister level, everyone who has dealt with state theory in this country and in Europe and in the world should be graded and assigned to which university Marcus Aurelius can be taught. I suggest you choose the University of Miskolc, because he wrote his thoughts on the shore of the Garam, and it's much closer than Pécs. [[18.40]] That's a logical argument. Because, in this legislation, very honourable Secretary of State, a very honourable Parliament, it is that state sciences are then exclusively - this, please, is added; they did not think about where to put it, they found its place well, they are about to supplement the 1. I quote once again, I leave the beginning of the text: in respect of these sciences, only the National University of Public Service is entitled to pursue higher education. If you think there's any sense of humor in this, you're wrong. But let us continue, and continue with the thought of this law, because it also talks about not only state science, because there really is no need to talk about such Kovacsóczyk and Grotiusok, and then it will be categorized; I think they will bring it to the law, but not two-thirds, because we will not vote for it. For example, there is the paragraph - and I quote this literally: and the National University of Public Service is only entitled to pursue higher education activities in international and European public services. With this paragraph, four Hungarian scientific departments are banned, including the Corvinus University, which has been successful in international relations for decades, and only one student cannot apply to study international relations at other universities. You do not say, honourable Members, that there should be no Corvinus, no ELTE, no University of Debrecen - there is actually such a course - but that it is said that only and only at the National University of Public Service, not elsewhere. Schools with decades of history are being liquidated. I note, for example, 90 percent of the above mentioned international graduates took their first place, and 95 percent took more than two language exams in this area, with a minimum of three foreign languages. And that's banned. They won't allow it. Ask your esteemed fellow Member, the prominent historian of the University of Debrecen, how he feels about this happening, when two floors above his own workplace, his colleagues and department, the institute teaching national relations there in Debrecen, are simply eliminated with this legislative passage. Because you can't be there. What's the point? They think that a law can really act in such a way that the world of science and its centuries-old tradition are destroyed by a political decision, it is divided into a specific place, and they think that because of the fact that whatever majority they have, or who has thought of it, trusts in some majority, this can be stopped. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the clear consequences of this. Those who work in this area today in Hungary are internationally recognized older and talented young people. This is interference with their lives, their scientific careers. It's called volition. These people, these researchers, these professors will leave Hungary, this is their life, this is their job, this is what they know, this is what they teach. I respectfully ask you to see how many foreign universities and professors and students of many foreign universities have applied to the international courses currently in operation to learn from these people, whose jobs are now practically banned or transferred to the institutional system of the National University of Public Service. But how can anyone force another person to teach, not at the university where you've been teaching for the last three decades, but only at a university, only at a university in Hungary that you're building? By the way, the fact that they are being trained for the public service or for the Hungarian Defence Office or for the police in an institution is acceptable. But that currently functioning, internationally recognized courses - and please don't say that this is a duplication, a parallelity where they can't get a job, because they could be placed everywhere! - I'm being liquidated, and I have to say, they're actually eliminating other places, so what's this for? The category of state sciences should be included in a paragraph, for example, with national defence higher education, national security higher education - because there is a justification for our country's need for highly qualified people of this quality and quality. But the area of state sciences is divided in the same way - and I will not say the previous round again, perhaps I would think of five people who have dealt with philosophy and state theory over the past centuries - that is simply nonsense. I would like to ask you with all due respect, whether it is a faction meeting or an internal meeting, where it is indeed a shameful law in terms of its quality, please consider this, do not put yourself in a position that is, on the one hand, unenforceable in practice. I must have circled, too. How are they going to find out that they really mean that state theory can't be taught elsewhere than at the National University of Public Service? Or are you going to start proving to me that state theory isn't part of state science? I suggest we not get into this topic, because it's part of it. This bill is a foolish way to privilege a university. Certain sections of this law have the right to exist in the above mentioned area, in terms of defence, national security, police, but, for example, to terminate international relations institutions, government-theoretical workshops, only in order to turn the existing, decisive personalities of real higher education against themselves in such unimagined legislation, if they do not give to political debate, I suggest that you think about it. Take back this law because it's worthless. Wormwork. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-130	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is a very interesting role when the speaker comes in second place, because then he will put aside his pre-thinking text a little, because he cannot do it without responding to what has been said. Unlike Mr Hiller, the KDNP sees this issue differently, although I have enjoyed your presentation very much, dear Member, the irony, humor and rhetoric. I haven't been able to comment on everything I'd like to respond to, because I could present my own thoughts, but I would like to use one or two examples to nuance one or two of your statements, that is to say, to disprove them. He says they can't teach Plato anywhere else. However, science is universal, and one thing is to give a degree from a major, and another thing is not to teach such greatness as Plato or Aristotle - or I could list - elsewhere. To give you just one example: I taught Plato at the university in educator training. [[Interventions in the ranks of the MSZP: So far, there has been no privilege! That's the thing. That's as far as you can teach!]] And Aristotle - but that didn't teach me state theory - because in his work on the state, there were many lessons that students had to read. Secretary of State L. Simon László, in his expoze, made it quite clear in the introductory words that this is about the division of state and law. The law faculties, which have completed classic law school, will continue to teach state science, but not to the extent that they have done so far, and which they have not been able to do. It seems to me that, since the states were established, they have had some unquestionable and millennia-long tasks for thousands of years. That was the operation of the state, that was the defense, the police, the police, the national security. [[18.50]] The training of these had to be created in a uniform way, which never reached the category of science, such as humane lessons or later natural sciences, since these activities were always practice-oriented. We agree that it is in the place of law enforcement and defence, and it is a good thing that the candidates of officers will appear among the scholarships, because this must be a unified, state-led unitary training, where science has a major role, of course, because it is a practical training that is founded by science. In our view, scientific training on the operation of the State apparatus must also be uniform. At the moment, if this stays the way it was before, that in Debrecen, Szeged, ELTE, Miskolc and other legal faculties they teach state science, then in the spirit of the autonomy of universities, standardisation here is quite difficult. I know this is what we suffer from in educating teachers, even though training should be more uniform there. That's why it's a good thing that this university has an honorary role in state science. There is the possibility that after a decade or two, or perhaps after a lifetime or two, this university will become such a prestigious university, well-known for science, as we see in many other countries. The Public Administration College was established in Hungary about half a century ago. This was the first higher education institution that really prepared students for the practical tasks of the public administration, who were not able to be prepared by the Faculties of Law, because this was not their profile, as classical law was dominated there. The College of Public Administration also merged into the National University of Public Service in 2010 or 2011. We tend to forget that, even though it came from the merger of the College of Military, Police and Public Administration. And it wasn't, for example, when the College of Public Administration was set up that the university professors' position had ceased. A lot of teachers, assistant professors, professors, and later professors ended up at the College of Public Administration. So the fact that this is self-indulgent, that we now have to leave work for some professors who teach state science in one of the legal faculties, I think it will happen the other way around that the old public service university invites these professors, because it is in its fundamental interest to be a prestigious, high-quality institution in international competition as well. The fact that the operation of the state cannot be fragmented, or the pursuit of science on the operation of the state, and such training cannot be reduced to four or five or six weeks, where the autonomy of universities is the decisive word, we see this issue as such, and that is why we can support and approve this process, and we do not see it as so tragic, on the contrary, it is a necessary step which is related to all the efforts that this government has consistently taken from 2010 onwards, with the fact that the state has taken greater responsibility, takes on and will take on important issues that concern all citizens, safety, tranquility and development. This amendment of the law is, in our view, about this, which is why we can support it. Technical amendments are necessary, since they must also be harmonised and harmonised with the higher education law. I would like to add that Congressman Hiller has objected to the fact that there is no place for the educational wallet or the Secretary of State, the Ministry of Human Resources. I would like to say that the current functioning of the university is also fully harmonised with the law on higher education, that the teachers of the University of Public Service must comply with the same conditions, the same classification applies to them, so it is an integral part of higher education. The fact that the Minister of Human Resources has not been given a role here may be debatable, but I do not see it as tragic as the one before me. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers this current amendment to be a necessary legislative amendment in line with the logic of the State Reson, and, of course, we support it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-131	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-09-132	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It's one of the most scandalous laws that's come before this House in the last year. It is completely unprofessional, it is obvious that higher education wants to turn the National University of Public Service into a party university - this work has already begun - and it is culminating in this bill, which lies before us. It is typical that it has not been consulted with the stakeholders, at least with the universities where legal training or state science training is currently taking place, since the two are inseparable. This resolution was presented to me by the dean of the law faculty of seven universities involved in this matter: University of Miskolc, University of Szeged, ELTE, Károli, Debrecen, Pécs and Deans of Széchenyi University from Győr. They express their uproar and ask the government to withdraw the bill, because they find several points of the bill unacceptable from a professional point of view. Neither the Hungarian Rector's Conference and its competent commission, nor the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, nor the relevant universities were consulted during the preparation, wrote the deans in this resolution, and they were surprised to learn that they wanted to interfere in the life of the legal training of universities in such an unprofessional and harsh way. Their request for withdrawal is supported by several aspects. Allow me to explain these. State science education is an integral and indispensable part of legal education in Europe and in Hungary, and it is not possible to separate these two, which is reflected in state and legal degrees issued by the legal faculties. So it's not just that it involves certain disciplines in the field of state science, but that legal training is also extremely affected by the adoption of it in this form. In the Faculties of State and Law, both infrastructure and personal conditions are appropriate for the complex education of state science, so these universities have a tradition of state science courses, which are also an integral part of legal education. It is not that the National University of Public Service is given a privileged status, it is that it is given an exclusive opportunity. Only in this university can such training, public science and administrative training be carried out, and elsewhere it will not be possible to do so. But the same is true of European and international public services. I do not wish to repeat how good jobs on the labour market are produced by students who come out of these courses. At the same time, the government should see and see that in Hungarian higher education at these universities, where these international courses are so popular, it is important for long-term development and development to attract foreign students to Hungary. In recent months, I have had the opportunity to meet several rectors, to talk, to negotiate, and almost all of them, where such education is taking place, have confirmed that the opportunities for universities to move forward include inviting a larger number of foreign students, extending and enabling these trainings. This is an idea that you, with this bill, are now completely nullified, harshly interfering in the lives of the institutions, without agreeing with them on this proposal. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The NKE has enjoyed privileges in higher education, and it is regrettable that the arrogance with which the government has tabled this proposal or is about to beat through Parliament is typical of Mr Patyi András Rector. Mayor Dávid Ózdon Janiczak is working day and night to start higher education during this mayor's term in some kind of daytime training. [[19.00]] The training of the former Zriny National Defence University is currently under way, and mayor would like to discuss the future possibility of this with the Rector of the National University of Public Service, and András Patyi replied that he does not wish to receive David Janiczak now or in the future with regard to their possible cooperation in this area. I think that, against an elected mayor in whose city this university is currently conducting correspondence training, this is an unacceptable attitude, an arrogant attitude that could not be allowed by a man who is the first man to the university from which young people, students, who will be able to play a decisive role in public administration. They should be much more humble about this extremely important training. Otherwise, the idea of the National University of Public Service would not be wrong in itself, but the harsh, unprofessional interference that is now being committed with this law solely for political reasons should be completely rejected. A few months ago, when we were talking about the NKE Act here, perhaps Secretary of State L. Simon László defended that veterinary training is taking place only in one place in Hungary, so it is not a problem if we provide exclusivity to the NKE at different courses. However, Mr Secretary of State did not take this into account when he argued that there is a tradition of legal education, education in the field of state science, administration and international education in Hungary. It is not a tabula rasa that is taking place in higher education, but it is already in the course of introductions, high-quality trainings, and with such intervention these professions, the value produced here, because that is what it is really about, values are about to be destroyed by the government with this proposal, these values are called into question and impossible, virtually prohibited. I therefore believe that veterinary training is not comparable to this, as it has traditionally developed in Hungary as it takes place at a university, while these courses have been available for several universities for decades now. Overall, we have the same opinion, of course, as the Dean's College of Faculties of State and Law, that we cannot accept this proposal, and we are, of course, trying to make an amendment to prevent them from following this amok run in higher education, but it would be best to withdraw it and not even think about bringing such a proposal before the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-133	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It has not even been four months since we discussed the previous higher education amendments to the National University of Public Service, and the speakers before me have referred to this on several occasions. We are already standing here, we have the next amendment ahead of us, the new proposal is organically linked to the previous proposal, its direct continuation in all respects. The most important part of the February amendment was that a new area of higher education was assigned to the National University of Public Service. It has been enshrined in law, and I quote that the NKE will be able to provide training courses in administrative, police and military fields in the future to carry out its international duties and to prepare for diplomatic tasks. In any case, they did not make a secret of making the NKE a base institution for the Hungarian diplomat training, which is what these amendments serve. In the debate in February, the LMP, who drew the most attention to this monopoly threat, was already suspected that its becoming a base institution would be more monopolising and exclusive. It was more than suspicious that the Hungarian Accreditation Committee was also bypassed at the launch of the new courses. Vice-President Hiller spoke about this in detail in the debate at that time. It is now sufficient to seek the opinion of any full member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. We still don't know why they're afraid of the MAB, why they're afraid of the opinion of the MAB during the authorisation procedure. By the way, circumventing or nationalising accreditation on the other hand is also a threat to the quality of training and international salesability, and we are not just talking about the University of Public Service. In addition, L. Simon László, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, spoke with the example cited above, the example of the veterinary university, in the summary debate on this amendment, clearly saying that the government's aim is to monopolise certain areas of higher education and make their education exclusive here in certain institutions. However, we thought that it was absolutely worthwhile to follow up on this and asked a question as a simple question from Parliament. We asked the Ministry of Human Resources, and the Secretary of State of Bence Rétvári has already called for a definite retreat, he said, and I quote: "You know very well that the government does not plan any measure, monopolisation, as you have said, about which he spoke - the end of the quote. However, Mr Rétvári State Secretary is worth quoting more from this same speech here and now. I'll do it:, neither in the higher education strategy nor in the mandate of this professional region, there's nothing that sets any form of monopoly, just the situation, the discovery of the facts. Then, once their work has been done, we can look at how high-quality higher education can be done, how we can change degrees in Hungarian higher education due to the title of the strategy, how we can train young people so that the education they acquire at the university helps them into the labour market on the one hand, and how they can move to the labour market, on the other hand, to solve the other problem, which is that 30 percent of those enrolled in the university will eventually not have a degree. Here's the end of the quote. On the other hand, the Secretary of State of Rétvári closed his remarks, thus:. So briefly and succinctly: there is nothing you have said but a review of the courses, which we hope will have a result soon, and then we can look calmly at the changes that are necessary for quality higher education. Well, if we can believe Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári and why not, because we wouldn't assume for the world that he wasn't telling the truth, then in mid-March there was no intention of monopolising you, the government didn't plan at all that certain ideas could be taught only at the National University of Public Service in the future. In March, only a review of the majors was carried out. This review has been extremely successful since then, in contrast with students, teachers, university leaders and common sense, almost one pen stroke has been able to eliminate international studies or social studies. The review is also taking place in other areas, if you only think about the intention of dismembering Corvinus University, of installing the faculties of the Buda Campus to other universities. Both a review of the courses and a reflection of the university structure are under way, we are concerned about the events, we are looking forward to new developments. But let's turn back to the National University of Public Service. With regard to the training of the NKE, the situation appears to have been reviewed in just three months. As a result, the previous position has been changed, and the opposite decision has been taken. Let's see why the LMP says that. I will quote a few points from the proposal before us. The NKE Act is the following 1/A. "Article 3a is added: Article 44 of the Act and by the Minister responsible for the development of public administration The university is only entitled to carry out higher education activities in the fields of state sciences and administration, law enforcement, military, national security and international and European public service, pursuant to a decree issued pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Article. In the explanatory memorandum, it is also underlined directly that the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that only the NKE can continue higher education of state science and administration, law enforcement, military, national security and international and European public service. The quote from the law ends here. So that's about the government not planning any monopolisation. [[19.10]] The university shall have the exclusive right to carry out higher education activities in the fields of state sciences and administrative, police, military, national security and international and European public service. In the explanatory memorandum, it is also underlined directly that the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that only the NKE can continue higher education of state science and administration, law enforcement, military, national security and international and European public service. The quote from the law ends here. So that's about the government not planning any monopolisation. (19.10) After the statement of Secretary of State L. Simon László and the explanation by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, monopolisation will therefore be put into law in black and white. What happened was what was announced in February, and in several places, we told it several times. What the Minister has so far only decided where to start training is now being put into law in these areas of training. Do not accidentally decide that Zoltán Balog, Minister responsible for education, is not only entitled to start diplomatic training, for example. The National University of Public Service has thus become not only a basic institution but also an exclusive monopoly. There will be no competition in these areas, and with the power of the law, the competition will be swept off the field. But why is this whole monopolisation problem according to LMP? In general, it is not good for a country's higher education not to be organised on a uniform basis, but to create more centres. There are monopolies in the institutional system, exclusivity trainers. Let's talk about any training, monopolising the majors is not fortunate in either case, even if this is justified either by special knowledge or by tradition, for example in the case of police and military training. It is also unfortunate that the supply and demand of certain training courses can only be studied in one or two institutions, even with regard to the training of veterinary surgeons referred to several times. It is not good either because if there is no competition, nothing motivates the institutions to maintain and improve quality. They could not expect a qualitative stimulus or assistance from the government that was gradually withdrawing funds. In particular, it is not justified to monopolise where these trainings have been carried out in several institutions. We are thinking precisely about diplomatic training, current international studies, international relations. It seems that the first attack on these reprimands was fought back by the students and the instructors a few weeks ago, so here's revenge, by the power of the law, they'll take these trainings away from the institutions and give them exclusively to the NEC. The process will be completed by the release of a new professional list. So far, there has been no problem with Hungarian diplomatic training and its quality. International studies, contacts, international farming studies could only be scored with a much higher than average score, but in addition to the highest recruitment scores, they were also considered strong from other aspects. It was very high quality training. Maintaining high standards on the NKE is essentially not guaranteed, and this step puts a well-functioning training in jeopardy. For example, it is not going to improve the quality of the training itself, that according to the bill, they will be entitled to use a doctoral title in the future, as is the case with lawyers. It can be said, of course, that this is a minor change, but it still violates the traditional university hierarchy and university culture. Even if there were any legitimate reasons to do so, the level of training alone does not require this. This measure is also intended to artificially improve the prestige of a monopolised training. Monopolising certain trainings strengthens caste character in higher education. They've made a special caste for the gunmen before, and then they're going to make caste for the CEOs, and now they're going to make a special caste for the diplomats. If there is only one place to learn something, the role of ideologies increases worryingly beyond quality problems. Training is subject to central ideologies and expectations, which must be met in a cramped manner, and this also means that the potential for social control will be guaranteed to decrease, and this is a country that has been on the path of democracy for only 25 years, a particularly dangerous step backwards in our opinion. We think so only because the experience of the previous period also shows that when profile cleaning or monopolising occurs in higher education, it always results in the strengthening of an ideological element. We believe that it is necessary not to strengthen ideological influence, but to maintain and further strengthen high professional standards in the case of diplomatic training, as elsewhere. That is what we said in the February amendment, which is what we need to say now. They artificially put a higher education institution in a position at the expense of other institutions and training, while we do not see any steps to maintain and strengthen quality and quality. This amendment is multiplely harmful, useless, intended solely to strengthen the distorted social image of the government. They want to put their hands on more and more areas, influence more training, dictate from above, centralize, monopolise. They may think that this will help keep the power, but on the contrary, this is exactly what will bring about the fall of the Orbán system. In the long term, Hungary cannot be forced to have any central ideas that we did not come up with together, involving everyone, but came out of the head of a narrow, political group of powers. It'll only work for a while. It won't work anymore. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-06-09-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent representatives to speak and a two-minute speech would be possible. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Our fellow Member, Rózsa Hoffmann, was able to say in his keynote speech, I quote, that the universities of state and legal sciences were unfit for state science education. [[Dr. Rózsa Hoffmann: I didn't say that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The only visible sign of this will be that, for example, Viktor Orbán, as a lawyer in ELTE, will vote for this abomination here in Parliament. And the visible sign is that if the Fidesz lawyers vote for this proposal here in Parliament, to the shame of their own university, their alma mater. This proposal is nothing more than a new manifestation of Fidesz market distribution and redistribution in the field of science and universities, my fellow Members. I would also like to say, Congresswoman, that I graduated from the Faculty of Law and State in Pécs. I resent it. I object to myself, in the name of all the instructors and graduates there, to allow such a tasteless and unacceptable qualification, even here in Parliament, in the House, where our vast majority will not follow the footsteps of the people who teach at those universities. And you think the University of Patyi András will be better suited for this task. We are talking about András Patyi, who, on the proposal of Fideszes Minister Tibor Navracsics, has been appointed university professor, in an unprecedented manner, that the Hungarian Accreditation Committee has never proposed it before, and since then this has not happened in Hungary's history. We are talking about András Patyi, who has been able to be at the same time for years, in a terrifying way, the rector of the National University of Public Service, the independent chairman of the National Electoral Commission and the President of the State Reform Committee of the Prime Minister's Office at the same time, obviously in an incompatible way, because in his latter capacity he clearly plays a role in government work, which, by the way, is completely incompatible with the position of President of the National Election Committee, and if someone wants to be a rector of state science education in this country, then at least he should know that. But one thing is clear about his activities: in every position he has demonstrated that he is loyal to the government, to Viktor Orbán and to Fidesz, which is the real reason for your proposal. Shame! Take it back! Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-137	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-09-138	I don't fully understand your anger, but I may not have expressed myself correctly. I can't quote you because it wasn't written, so I'd like to be more specific. What I was going to say is that besides teaching classical law, the Faculties of Law have not been able to pay enough attention to preparing students for the tasks and practical tasks of public administration. Then, of course, the record can be decoded, if I put it wrong, and I didn't classify the quality of the law department's work as such, but they were created for a completely different purpose. After having had the pleasure of working in the administration several times and for several years, I have certainly experienced that the fresh graduate lawyers who completed a law school had to hold them with a lasso to come to the administration, and even if they did, half of them did not stand in their place because they were preparing for something quite different. The administration of the state, the public administration, requires a unified governance, and that's why we support this law, because the state is united, it's no different from the West and the East and the South, and that's why it's good if it's in one place. Classical law faculties, which continue to teach law school, of course also teach state science, will only change the proportions, and those teachers who specialize in state science, I believe that sooner or later they will end up at the current National University of Public Service. [[19.20]] I will ask for another opportunity to speak because I want to say that I have long heard so many demagogic statements, which are not supported, and I would like to explain this, which I do not mean for you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I hope I've fixed it, and I see it this way, and you have no reason to be offended or angry. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-09-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have a two-minute speech from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2015-06-09-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Once again, I would like to quote the resolution of the Deans of the Faculties of State and Law, that the education of state sciences is an integral and indispensable part of legal training in Hungary, and it is not possible to separate them from each other. So legal training is part of state science training, on the one hand, and therefore this proposal is unprofessional. On the other hand, there is a woman here, who talks about preparing for the practical work of the public administration. This can not only be done in the context of legal training, but there is a basic administrative and administrative master's course, so these courses will be taught only by the University of Public Service, although they can be found in the offer of many other universities, including Debrecen and Corvinus, but it could be described in other universities. Now they're gonna break this, and it's not gonna have a future if this law is passed. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-141	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-142	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to say to Mr Belling that the disciplines are differentiated, and I would not consider anything as constant - I will keep it quietly - which, in any case, justified an intention to give them greater perspective with the autonomy of certain disciplines, let us say in training. I think Minister Hiller can confirm that when he was a minister, he was probably faced with the same problem as I am faced with as State Secretary and many others, who were state leaders or are state leaders at the moment, that indeed, along with the fact that Congresswoman Dúró is right, that further training opportunities are available, master exams and other, but still within the institutional system of the state, including local governments, county governments, government offices, the number of appropriate administrative experts is low, so it takes a lot of energy from the lives of the leaders to train and know first-line professionals behind them. And I would like to say to Mr Ikotity that there is no saying here in my case, and I clearly remember our then pole. I honestly tell you, Mr President, at that time I had no idea that we were going to present a bill of this kind of content and subject matter to the House four months later, so I did not know that this might have been the case. The main reason for this is that I do not attend the meetings of the State Reform Committee, and I have replaced Minister Lazarus once in the last six months at the State Reform Committee, and the subject was completely different. So when I said that there were trainings that were, by the way, monopolistic, I didn't say that this was the government's intention, but that was historically the case. This is a small country, a small culture, obviously this Hungarian higher education would not be able to hold two vet training courses, as, let's say, forester training is concentrated in one place in Sopron, and that is right, because we would not be able to support two or three vet training courses or two or three forester trainings on the market. I would certainly not bring this thing here on a platform with the current bill, and I do not intend to support this bill. I think that this is a valid debate that we are having here, that can be discussed, what you are saying here, that I think it is important and that professional aspects have been considered by the opposition, but this is the result of a completely different development, historically entirely different, that there are lawyers at many universities and that many universities have a Faculty of State and Law, but at the same time the result of a completely different development is that there are institutions in monopoly situations. In addition, if you recall, I mentioned not only veterinary training, but also artistic training, that there are art courses that are also monopolistic. They do not form a film director in Hungary only in a higher education institution, and we could still list them. In addition to the fact that training in rural higher education institutions was then differentiated and, for example, there is already an acting training in Kaposvár, we could list a number of artistic areas, and you and I, which are traditionally trained in only one higher education institution in the country. I think there's nothing wrong with that, because once again, it's a small country, a small culture, a small market from a higher education point of view. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-143	Thank you very much. The two-minute speeches will end with Mr István Ikotity. I would like to tell Mr László Kiss and Mrs Dóra Dúró that after the next round of speeches, I have the opportunity to speak for two minutes under the house rules. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor, please.
u2015-06-09-144	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The May Other in Politics is always what we highlight most, and we always say, over and over again, the need for predictability in all areas, including higher education. When and how many times we've called this up on the government, they've been repeating it over and over again as a mantra that what's in the higher education strategy will be what's not in it. Any kind of strategic thinking is being swept aside by the kind of situation that has just occurred here, and you're saying that four months ago, you didn't know about a transformation of this magnitude. Does that mean you're not informed about this as a representative here? Or does that mean they didn't even know what they were gonna do four months ago? Then this is, excuse me, but it's not steering, it's all of a sudden where the wind blows, we're doing what we're thinking or what we're thinking. Some sort of consistency, some direction, some strategy, please. That's exactly what creates uncertainty in all areas, that's why a young person doesn't know what his career is, what it is that could mean for him a career. That is precisely why young people go abroad because they do not see the idea of what you want from this country. Thank you.
u2015-06-09-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State L. Simon László, please.
u2015-06-09-146	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Just to make it clear, and I stood up again because I have experienced during the recent Polemics between us that you are usually abstaining from demagogy, but you have now succeeded in being perfectly demagogic, because I do not believe that a Member of Parliament should explain that there is a differentiated work going on in a government. So it's not my job to happen to develop all the concepts. So if, let's say, there is a concept production going on in the Ministry of Agriculture, I will be informed when the bill arrives for the meeting of the Administrative State Secretary, and if the Prime Minister's Office is a large ministry and there are a number of working groups working side by side, and I personally do not participate in this work, I told you that I am not a member of the Committee on State Reform, so I did not participate in the practical development of this bill. [[Dóra Dúró: So you're not in charge here?]] This is completely natural in a government work, which is why there are ministries, which is why there are State Secretarys in charge of special fields, which is why there are several State Secretarys within the Prime Minister's Office, more tasks. [[Dóra Dúró: Then what are you doing here? Where's the authority?]] So I don't really understand what you're asking us to do. I have to say, honourable Member, that the development of this bill has, of course, been preceded by a number of issues raised in the Committee on State Reform, which have been discussed, so obviously there is also a thoughtful work behind this bill.
u2015-06-09-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Gergely Bárándy, from the group of the MSZP, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, However, as regards what has now been said in this debate, I must also note that if the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, who I believe is the Deputy Minister, does not know what the real reasons for submitting this law were, it is strange. [[L. Simon László: I didn't say that.]] That's what he said. The Secretary of State said that he could not answer precisely that because he did not participate in this work. [[L. Simon László: I didn't say that. I didn't say that. Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-06-09-149	Secretary of State, you can take the floor at any time.
u2015-06-09-150	Mr. Secretary, you'll answer me if it's better for you. [[19.30]] By the way, I believe you, Mr. Secretary. I believe you. I believe you because you made it clear where the idea came from. As if we didn't know, of course, but he says that the State Reform Committee proposes that this be the case. [[L. Simon László: I didn't say that.]] You didn't say that either, Mr. Secretary. Then we all understand you wrong. That's weird. That's what you said, Mr. Secretary. I'm saying it in a probative way. [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] The same State Reform Committee that is chaired by András Patyi, who is also the Rector of the National University of Public Service, in one person. It has other functions, of course, but it is an interesting story in this regard that the State Reform Committee proposes, or at least in cooperation with the Prime Minister's Office, a transformation that is actually sensitive to the President of that Committee, at least to the institution it manages. I don't think it's healthy to the slightest extent. Nor do I consider what my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó said about whether they have no more men, or whether András Patyi is such a jolly gooder, who is now also the chairman of the electoral committee, the rector position of the University of Public Service, the position of the President of the State Reform Committee, who will propose changes to his position of another kind. So, this is something that, in itself, would be unacceptable, even if we agreed with the rest of this legislation, as we do not otherwise. I was beginning to get the picture here, listening to your speech, that, in your view, today, all talentless people are managing the state, because they graduated from a university, at least in general, the leaders who didn't study high administrative law or state science, but only graduated from law school. Obviously, that's not true. I believe that legal universities are able to fulfil this function, and practice proves that. You also select state ministers, deputy state secretaries, heads of department, to the best of my knowledge, who have graduated from law school. [[Dóra Dúró: Viktor Orbán.]] Quite a lot. I understand they're even satisfied with them, putting them in different positions. Even positions that have nothing to do with law or public administration. That is not what this is about, fellow Members. And it's not even about wanting to create any kind of harmony. Because, Mr. Secretary, what legislation do you intend to bring to harmony? What you have mentioned, the legislation has not yet been discussed by the Parliament, it has not yet had a general debate. Are you trying to make it work? Well, then they would have filed these two in at least one law! Why wasn't it filed in a law? This is what my colleague Hiller was talking about. Because, by the way, in a unique way, university autonomy is thrown away by an institution that belongs to the Prime Minister's Office and has nothing to do with the wallet that is also responsible for education. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's not get carried away here. You, as my colleague before me said, specifically from Jobbik's ranks, want to create a Janichar training school, a university, a training center where, as far as possible, you can provide training in as many disciplines as possible that suits you, which meets your goal and needs; no, not from a scientific point of view, from a political point of view. I think that's the point, that's the big problem. It's amazing how they build their clientele, practically from the legislation that affects the lives of school children to the completion of the university. Amazing! In fact, beyond that. Just today, the opposition has managed to prevent the adoption of an amendment to the judiciary which would have allowed the appointment of judges who spent several years in the Ministry of Justice, say, codification, without any judicial activity, obviously accustomed to the system of giving the order there. Ladies and gentlemen, What is new in this proposal compared to, say, the former Administration College? One is that it is under the direct control of the Prime Minister's Office. That's, I think, a big difference. The fact that university autonomy will be trained and privileged in this area on the basis of university training that will be thrown into a dumpster or a sham. Of course, let's stop here and see what kind of area it is. 'Cause what you guys are saying, they're always talking about public administration, the importance of administrative training. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not just what is in the law, but also the term "state sciences." The term "state sciences" is much more than administrative training. Administrative training was basically carried out at the College of Public Administration. State science training is closely linked to legal training. This is what Mrs Dóra Dúró spoke about, quoting the deans of universities and legal universities. It is not, therefore, my fellow Members, that you wish to transfer the competence of the College of State Administration to the National University of Public Service, and to give it a privilege, but to give much more priority to the training of state science. And here we are really getting to what my fellow Member Hiller was talking about: will it not be possible to teach certain arts and authors at law universities? Are we gonna get to the point where we're gonna start arguing about constitutional law in terms of whether it's part of state science or part of law? They're both part of it. You can't teach state science without teaching constitutional law. You can't teach law school without teaching constitutional law. These two are closely linked. I believe that certain areas of training can be separated from legal and state science education in terms of public administration, but that state science can be taken out of law school, I don't believe that. I don't believe it! Well, at least this much clarification should be made in this proposal, that they are not talking about state sciences, but only about public administration. Although I also add that the theoretical part of the administration, let us say, if you read the works of András Tamás, is difficult to understand, but excellent works, it is difficult to separate you from, say, constitutional law or even other legal areas. The theory of administrative law, the theory of public administration, is equally related to constitutional law and other legal disciplines and areas of law, as is the case with public administration in the strict sense. It's a sin to separate them, Mr. Secretary. It's a crime to separate him! And they're talking about there being vet training in one place, and there's also forestry training in one place. Mr. Secretary, tell me, is it against the law to be anywhere else? 'Cause I don't think so. Here, legislation will prohibit such training from taking place elsewhere. Otherwise, it is not prohibited by any legislation to be based on a veterinary faculty elsewhere. If you want to do this and meet the conditions, you can establish it the same way you can establish, let's say, forestry training, which is also one in the country. I'd like to ask you what's next. That certain jobs can only be filled with this degree? In other words, will only people who are trained in Fidesz's cadre training be in charge of certain administrative positions? [[Dóra Dúró: That's right.]] For example, I would be very interested to know whether you have such a plan, Mr. Secretary of State, or whether you will consider the lawyers to be worthy of these positions. Or maybe not just lawyers, but other universities, because in public administration, I think we need economists as much as we need people with a degree in philosophy. And allow me to say a few more words about the operation of the N.I.C.E. [[19.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I am taking advantage of this situation here, that there is not necessarily a need for judicial certainty, a certainty of judgment, and I can tell you something that I can only support on the basis of personal experience. The fact that I hear nothing from other teaching colleagues who teach at the University of Public Service but that - and I know that this is a serious word, it is serious, but it is still true, I hear nothing but - political loyalty is required. Secretary of State, that's what they say unanimously, who teach at that university, and at least I'm talking to them, and it's not just people on the left, Mr. Secretary of State. Some are disturbed by this, some are not, but that there is political loyalty to you at the level of expectations, I can say here in the Hungarian Parliament, and I am truly sorry for that. And you know, when science keeps me there, and I personally witnessed this, too, that one of the founders of prison law in Hungary gets that phone and tells us with a sad face who we were standing around that I just received feedback from one of the scientific journals that my study on the new Code of Correction cannot unfortunately be published - by the way, this paper is government-related, I must say, a newspaper supervised by one of the ministries - because it is too critical. Secretary of State, where the hell are we? That science articles can't be published because they're critical of government policy? [[L. Simon László: Come on!]] That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary. I was at the scene where this happened! [[L. Simon László: I can't believe it!]] I wouldn't have believed it, either, if someone else had said it, maybe you wouldn't have believed me. [[L. Simon László: I don't think so!]] That's right. Don't believe it, Mr. Secretary. Don't believe it. [[L. Simon László: I can't believe it! Tell me the author.]] I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry, Mr. Secretary, you know, that's when I can tell you that you live in an ivory tower that you don't see what's real. [[L. Simon László: Sure!]] When you are already trying to adapt to you, editors of scientific journals, when they try to adapt to you department heads, because they created such a system and created such a mood [[L. Simon László: Don't get too excited.]] [[L. Simon László: Don't get too excited.]] And there are consequences if someone doesn't do that, it's amazing. (L. Simon László: Don't get too excited.) And that's what's going on today in the field of science, Mr. Secretary of State, it's terrible as there are signs. [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] Then, Mr. Secretary of State, it should also be mentioned that, indeed, which university still has its funding, in the normal way? Each university has a number of problems, cannot hire an instructor, because there is simply no money for it, it cannot continue its research because there is no money for it - except for the judge of Giev, the National University of Public Service, where there is money for everything where everything is possible. And finally, what was the last straw for me in this respect with regard to the University of Public Service, and I will tell you frankly, I wrote a letter to the Rector with a question as to how it is that, when the department of mentors stood up at the University of Public Service, only mentors who are connected to the right were appointed, both to one thread and to one thread! Or effectively held a government position... [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Listing?! L. Simon László: Listed, of course!]] ... either held a government position, or they are specifically and clearly linked to you. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Secretary, I don't think it's okay, it's not okay. I don't list, you list, and you select loyal people from your list into these bodies. [[Forebod Novak: Where is Gábor Kubatov?!]] That is the case, Mr. Secretary of State, that is the sad situation in the world of science today. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] And when such a proposal is put forward, you will only strengthen this process. Shame and shame, and unacceptable! Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Rózsa Hoffmann is next to be heard again. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-09-152	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm under the impression that we're missing the point. [[Dóra Dúró: No! The First of Novak: That's right!]] The point is there, somewhere, to see if our state is working well, whether citizens are satisfied with the way the offices operate, the administration, the deadlines, the complexity of the legislation, and I think everyone in their own environment can give many examples that they are not, dissatisfied, and behind that there is the fact that public servants who do their work, while exerting their powers and often working beyond working hours, are somehow not coordinated. Therefore, in order for the State to function well and function smoothly, it was necessary to establish the State Reform Committee and it is necessary to establish a training system that changes that bad practice in the same way and in the same direction. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró said here that tradition will be crushed and values destroyed. I'm not saying... I had a lot of lawyers in my family, so maybe I know a little more about law school than ordinary citizens; I know it's very high-quality, but it's moved away from practice. The meaning, the essence of this university, I see in the fact that a single administration - which was once called the government administration - should finally be established, where all municipalities and all offices operate in the country on the basis of uniform principles and common practice, and this can be done from a single scientific centre. Yes, the practitioners of state sciences should train the practical public servants who carry out the laws at the desks that they create at a higher level. That's one thing I wanted to say, that we need to change that, otherwise we wouldn't need a reform. No matter who I talk to, everyone is always dissatisfied, even though government windows have been created; there are huge deadlines, not to mention the tone and practical knowledge of some officials. As I said, my own experience confirms that there have been a lot of mistakes made by law enforcement people in their otherwise legal work that should not have been made - but I do not want to continue on this subject. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] The other is that I, too, have caught some demagogic statements here, for example, that I was saying that I was a Janicsar instructor and that I was a party university. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] There was a party university, it was the college of MSZMP, which ceased with the change of system, but there were conditions imposed... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now he's resuscitated! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Please, I was raised to be troubled that if they yelled at my words, that's why I didn't tell them; I didn't yell at anyone else's words either. Well, the party university is such a condition that only a party member should be the instructor, that only party members could be educated, and that party training was given. [[L. Simon László: Foxi-Maxi!]] I don't think the University of Public Service has such a condition here, and they're not looking at the pay grade for the candidates. But being loyal to the state at hand is fundamental. Of course, I say this in vain to MSZP Members, I know, because I find that to date they are asking for a word in international forums where possible, and that the work of the Hungarian government is being abused, often with unjust accusations; of course, they do not have this concept of loyalty. [[László Kiss: Sure!]] But I can't imagine a public servant, a military officer or a police officer or a customs officer or a national security worker being loyal to the power at hand. Therefore, it is necessary that such a university, whose nature is quite different from that of a classic university, where the free cultivation of sciences took place, requires a degree of loyalty. I don't know what happened at the university, what Congressman Barándy referred to, I don't know if there may have been overdoings, maybe not, maybe you overestimate it, maybe you're overdramatizing the situation, and I can't comment on that, but there's nothing in the statute of the NEC itself that would assume that there is a school or a university of parties. But as for law enforcement or military training, what if in the military, let's say, they started a democratic debate about attacking or not attacking? There is a system of command control, and in the army it has always been, and according to a whole different logic, such training works. Now, of course, the public service is somehow included in this; it cannot be the subject of a debate on how to manage a local government, how to operate a village notary - to mention the smaller areas of the public service - while, of course, artistic education, the cultivation of classic sciences, must follow the logic of science. [[19.50]] Therefore, there is such central control, which is subject to the current Prime Minister's Office, I think and we think it is logical and necessary. And if there are excesses, then the right organisations are in the right place to talk about it and not allow it to happen. I think that today's debate goes a little beyond the text of the law, because it is involved in any negative experience of the university's operation, it is not where it belongs, and a bad experience does not give anyone the right to put this amendment under different glasses and, let's say, other consideration than what it actually represents. It is no coincidence that in ancient states, whether Egypt or Mesopotamia, the teaching of literacy began with scribe training. The reason why the first schools were set up in Mesopotamia is because of the increased functioning of the state and the need for literacy. And not according to the logic of science, but not contradicting it, but unitedly trained the scribes in Mesopotamia and Egypt, and then in medieval states, universities were established to operate the state apparatus, where not the seven free arts, but the necessity of the practice and the state dictated what to learn. So bringing here the academic autonomy created for the training of those who satisfy the public service or graduates can only be very careful, because this is a completely different activity than in the classic universities. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-09-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Once again, a proper speech will be followed by Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-09-154	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, First of all, I would like to reject Secretary of State L. Simon's statement that we are a small country, a small culture. I think you can say that there's a lot of money and a little football, but that's the way I consider our culture to be classified. [[L. Simon László: Come on! Really! Really! Oh, come on.]] That it's not elegant on the part of a secretary of state. I'd like to reject that. In a similar way, I must reject the argument that was extremely infantile, which brought here forestry training, veterinary training and artistic training. There are, however, fundamental differences in these aspects. [[Mr L. Simon László: Congressman Ikotity brought it up.]] and administrative training, if, for example, only the number of veterinarians in Hungary and how many people work in the public administration or in the legal profession. So in that sense, he can't stand up. It's like saying, Mr. Secretary, wow, we have one head, then we cut off one hand, because we have one of those, we cut it off, we cut it off, it's only gonna be one, it's gonna be okay. It's not gonna be okay. It is not possible to compare forester training, veterinary training with administrative and state science training, i.e. legal training. One of the main arguments of the government side is that training will be unified here and the public administration will be more high-quality, and the state will be better. Just remember, there's not currently anarchy in this area. What you have to see is that what doesn't happen in Debrecen at law school is that what they think is being taught. We are talking here about trainings in both the field of state science and in the field of public administration, which are accredited courses, which issue diplomas, and with these degrees are able to place young people in an extremely high number of former students. Therefore, there is no professional justification, no professional argument to justify the integration of these high-quality courses with good job opportunities exclusively under the auspices of the National University of Public Service. In addition, this amazing centralization will shut down the channels for students or prospective students who could go to the University of Miskolc, for example, and could resolve the fact that they attend such trainings, but can no longer afford to participate in a course in Budapest. But the same is true of Szeged, Debrecen. So there will be other social consequences of this step beyond technical inexplicability. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann said that the state at hand must expect some loyalty from these people. I would just remind the congresswoman that Miklós Völgyesi was a judge and taught at university in 2006, when he was at the head of the Civic Law Committee that uncovered and investigated what had happened on 23 October 2006 and in the autumn. If he had been loyal to the then power of Ferenc Gyurcsány, then he would not have revealed these abuses. So I think that it is good for fundamental values that, if these academics are faithful, but that they serve the power of state without criticism is in no way to be supported. [[L. Simon László: That's not what the Rose said!]] Congresswoman said that law school has moved away from practice. I can give you a very good counter-example. She was also present at the meeting of the Cultural Committee in Győr, where Rector Földesi also reported that the practice had already been introduced in legal training, so students have the opportunity to work in practice in the court during their student status on the basis of an agreement between the University and the Győr Tribunal, so that as a quasi-part of university training, lawyers have access to practical training. It is not justified, for example, to remove this argument in Győr, and this argument does not stand, nor in any other university, but this example shows very well that this argument does not support the fact that only one university has training in state science and administrative matters. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-06-09-155	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First up, Mr László Kiss, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, a significant part of this debate comes from the poor use of concepts both by law and by some parties. I would like to express, however, that public science and public administration science are not the same thing. Therefore, it would be good that if the law really wanted to implement its reform based on a common approach to public administration, it would not use the term state science, which should not be used in this case. I recommend the consideration of clarifying these terms later on, because it is possible that if you do not want what my fellow Member Hiller has been talking about, you may be able to improve the bill. However, I would also like to say that the single administration that Mrs Hoffmann is talking about does not actually exist, there is no such thing, and I do not understand how this conclusion can be reached. We are talking about a number of positions in public administration. For example, in public education freaks, teachers are the majority in positions - and rightly so - and there are many other administrative areas where there are people with professional qualifications, obviously in administrative areas. It follows, therefore, that the present system does not require the unity that does not exist, and which is inconclusive, or even not good, if it is formed, and in this sense it is a mistake to narrow this area down to lawyers only, since in the administration of the profession there are basically not lawyers, but experts in the particular profession, who are taking administrative examinations and later administrative examinations in order to perform their jobs. I would therefore like to point out that what Mrs Hoffmann has been talking about, which is the case in this country, has been in operation for a very long time, and it is these two exams, basic exams and exams that bring together the necessary administrative requirements, and otherwise, the professional competences required for professional work are done differently. If you like it, then, for example, in the field of therapeutic education, there is obviously not a lawyer in the central administration, but a medical educator. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-09-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go. [[Dr. Rose Hoffmann: Not anymore.]] Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has checked in once again. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll give you a quick heads-up. I just didn't want to squeeze myself in for two minutes. There are so many points and questions to the Secretary of State, and this has been left out of my previous speech about the reason why students who have completed administrative training would also receive the title of doctorate. [[20.00]] This, of course, can be interpreted for me in such a way that they wish to use it as a kind of decoy, that when they think about choosing the law school or this training of the National University of Public Service, then, let us say, there should be no disadvantage in this regard, because it is extremely important for many students to receive such a title for some reason. But tell me one thing, Mr. Secretary of State: when students from higher education and university do not receive the doctoral title in other faculties, what is the reason why they receive it in the administrative department, otherwise only at this National University of Public Service, so not in all others? What works there today, they don't get it, they get it on this one. I say, I understand that if you want to attract students with this; I do not consider this a legitimate legislative goal, this is another question. But at a time when, in the world today, in most countries, it is specifically about lawyers, and some where doctors don't get their PhDs, but it only comes with the science degree, why do we want to expand it? Barely the trend, the trend is contrary to this in the world. Many people in Hungary also object to why this is so, why lawyers and doctors are privileged in this regard. One more answer could be that this is a very long, decade-old, centuries-old tradition in Hungary. This tradition can be maintained, it can be abolished; but to extend the scope of those who get a doctoral degree without a scientific degree in a way that is contrary to these trends, I do not understand why. I hope that Mr Secretary of State will be able to waste a few sentences in this reply, because I do not see the reason for this, and I cannot justify it with anyone else. In the area of public administration - and this is already leading us to the debate of the other bill, which will also happen here in the House's walls soon - they do not intend to create the possibility of getting a scientific degree in certain forms, but if they have completed, say, three years in one higher education institution, then they will have to do another full five years in order to obtain a scientific degree later. But that's another story. I value the administration and the state sciences very much, and I appreciate it enough to get a scientific degree from it. So anyone who has such ambition and needs can go further in the training system and acquire the PhD level. But I don't see any reason why, I'm going to tell you once again that after completing the administrative department, someone should automatically get a doctorate. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-09-160	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to respond to all the points that have been raised in the debate, and I think that we will also continue this debate during the detailed debate, and because I have spoken in the meantime, which is why I have been able to respond to, and partly to some critical or sensitive questions, I think that my fellow Member, Mr Rózsa Hoffmann, has answered, in fact, on behalf of the government side. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sad that Congressman Barándy is talking about Fidesz-cader training in connection with the National University of Public Service; I think that he has insulted a lot of people. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was only planning on you.]] He insulted young people who go there, who apply for admissions, and his parents were offended. I think there's a lot of decent people on the left. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's right!]] Get your kid in there or he'll sign up. There are trainings - I am glad that you acknowledge this, Member - which, as we are discussing here, are good or bad, see military and police training that can only be carried out here. It never occurred to me that honest left-wing people don't want their country as much as I do. That's why I never thought about it, and I don't list you here, for example, so that honest left-wing people can't be excellent soldiers serving their country. [[Dóra Dúró:]] Or excellent policemen serving our country. So when you say that this university is a Fidesz-cadre teacher, you've insulted all of them, and it's unworthy and baseless. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You are misinterpreting what I have said.]] Then you say that political loyalty is required at this university. I don't know, but in any case, I could account for a number of institutions where political loyalty was a requirement or even a requirement, not at all for the government side. I am only telling you that there is a higher education institution in Hungary where political action is regarded as artistic activity, political action against the government as artistic act, artistic act, artistic activity. Find out what kind of training there is in this country, and see what kind of attitudes prevail in certain institutions, arms, departments, and so on. Therefore, I can tell you, Congressman, that such things are said in the Hungarian Parliament, that only right-hand educators are elected mentors, for example, and other... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's a fact!]] But, honourable Member, you must know... [[Dóra Dúró: Coincidence.]] I'll wait until Congresswoman finishes. You therefore know which instructor's political affiliation, who you vote for. I, who I definitely know... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: These are not teachers, they are politicians! The president's ringing the bell.]] But let me finish. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Here's the list! Deputy Secretary of State. The president's ringing again.]] Who, for example, I firmly know which political party he is a member of and which political community he belongs to, but at the same time I consider him an excellent university teacher, István Hiller, because he accepts his political views; he is sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament. Or even our fellow Member, László Pósán, who is sitting here in the Fidesz fraction. They're involved, they're political, they're party members, they're on posters, they're involved in political action. But, by the way, I'll tell you honestly, most of my former professors still don't know if they voted left or right. And by the way, I have to say, who I knew for some reason, because, for example, Mr. Pusztai, the excellent linguist, who I applied to at university, and who was my mentor at the university, was the Deputy Minister of Pusztai teacher in the last period of socialism; an excellent linguist, and I learned a lot from him. But the only reason I knew about him was where he was voting or how he was thinking because he was once a political player. But this is our teacher-student relationship, I can tell you that our friendship has never been clouded. We're asking you, Your Honour, we're not listing you. And I can ask you... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy's intervention The president's ringing.]] Let me get this straight. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Isn't he a fidesz, not a secretary of state today?! The president's ringing the bell.]] But let me finish.
u2015-06-09-161	Congressman Bárándy.
u2015-06-09-162	So I can encourage you not to list me. And by the way, if most of the people on the board who, let's just say, can't identify with your worldview, let's accept this with dignity, it's a very natural thing in a democracy. [[Mr Gergely Bárándy: Mr Zoltán Kovács State Secretary, Benő Banai State Secretary.]] For the doctoral address, I can say [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: György Matolcsy.]] honourable Member, I think this is a valid debate, this is a very important debate that I think we should debate, but not necessarily in this context. I'll tell you why. Because, moreover, you, who repeatedly mentioned it, and in your previous two-minute comment, Mr Kiss, have also mentioned that we should be clear about it, and let us just say that this is about state science training and not administrative training, you have just said why a doctoral degree should be given in administrative training, while, by the way, the bill is 10. It is also quite clear that we are talking about state science, in the course of stock sciences, and if we assume that the classic course in state science and law is split into two... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: But not...]] I understand that the Member's opinion and, where appropriate, the opinion of some experts cannot be divided, but let us assume that this is some sort of stage, process of scientific differentiation; then let us judge, fellow Members, let us not be so wise in advance, because some have already sent people to the stake because they claimed that the Earth is orbiting the sun. So be careful what you can't separate from what you can't. But in any case, if the logic is that the classic course of state and law is divided, then I think it is possible to remove the degree of doctoral degree from the course of state science if it is taken away from the law. [[20.10]] It's a valid debate, it's a valid question, I think. And it's also true what you said, although it's not true for medical training, but it's true for legal training. To go west of us; I remember when Viktor Klima was the Austrian chancellor Viktor Klima, for example, when he spoke on TV - the Austrians have rank, everyone's academic degree and university degree - it was that magister Viktor Klima was there, and it was not there that doctor or doctor iuris Viktor Klima was there. I think it's normal. We, when we went to college, we went to the same university as you, if I remember correctly, went to ELTE. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No.]] No, he didn't go to ELTE. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I went to the Pázmány.]] He went to The Sting. Sorry. In any case, when we went to ELTE as a philanthropist, we suggested that, while we received a Magisterian degree or a Master of Arts, after five years of study in the Faculty of Humanities, after four and a half years of law school studies, the law and state science faculty received a PhD in whether this was fair or not. This is an old debate, it is not a new debate, and it is worth discussing. I'm just gonna say this again: not here, not in this context, and that's not how it's supposed to be arranged, because you can't leave out a wider scientific world. I can accept that in the future, those who have obtained a degree in law will not receive a doctorate, and then, obviously, you have the right to propose that those who have received a diploma in state science should not receive a doctorate. I note that there has also been an example in the history of Hungarian higher education and science that people, who have worked in a field of science, have received their doctoral title in hindsight. It wasn't that long ago, after the change of system, when the pharmacists got their PhD. Perhaps you remember, Congressman. This happened a few years or decades ago. They got it backwards, say, in the '60s and '70s, they graduated from pharmaceuticals, like doctors. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Congresswoman, you're so active, but let me finish. So the point is that this is a valid debate. I think that the idea of a Member should be considered, but at this moment we cannot settle this. So now, in this case, that the separation of legal and state science training is the government's intention, I think it is acceptable that graduates of state science receive a PhD. I would just like to say a few things to Mrs Dóra Dúró, because she is very good at operating here with half-truths, and operating with half-truths is always the most dangerous. I was, of course, talking about when I tried to polemise with Congressman Ikotity that this is a small country, and I was talking about the fact that the cultural market itself and our higher education market are small, honourable Member. I think Hungarian culture is huge, and I was talking about our sizes, not their values; I wasn't talking about our quality, Congresswoman, and you know it. You know that, but here you play demagogically with words and half-truths. You know perfectly well that I didn't downgrade our culture, I didn't downgrade our higher education, I was talking about the size of our country. And if you're thinking in a market and you're saying that it's a German language market, obviously on an 80-million-dollar German market, [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] To think, for example, of the Austrian and Swiss German languages, it is quite different to discuss, say, the situation of publishing, to Polemize, to consider the pluralism of publishing on a professional basis than to talk about the Hungarian market. But, let's say, this is a profession, honourable Member. [[Mr. Novak intervenes. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The training of foresters and veterinary training, Congresswoman, if you had listened to me, Mr Ikotity spoke about it, which is why he argued that I knew, in particular, that this law would be submitted to Parliament at the time that I spoke out about monopolisation. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] And he's an example of vet training. I said, I have just said, Madam Congresswoman, that it is quite different, but there is an example that certain areas of science are only trained at one university, but otherwise, I have not justified or supported our current proposal by training a forester or by training a veterinarian. Because, by the way, Congressman Bárándy was right about the fact that it is impossible to compare the two, because at present there is no fundamental obstacle to any university starting veterinary training under the Higher Education Act, if it has a professional staff, if it can be accredited, and if there is a market demand, I have to say this again, so many people want to study and apply to veterinarians. Therefore, I did not justify this bill with the training of a veterinarian, since it has a different logic and a different reason. Even when we were discussing the establishment of the university and the amendment of the law in February, the existence of the university, our reasons were different, and we made it clear why we wanted to monopolise the university, for example, in the area of national security, such as in the field of military law, for example in the area of law enforcement. We have said that in the field of diplomatic training, and I have also debated this with you, my fellow Member Ikotity, in Parliament, about the reasons and the reasons behind the fact that we also want to launch a diplomat training here. Let me also protect my fellow Member, Mr Hoffmann. He did not speak of the need to be loyal to power without any principle. Madam President, it was quite clear that the leadership of a state institution is loyal to the current state leadership. It's perfectly normal. Bringing the example of Miklós Volgyesi here is pointless, because it is surgery with half-truths again. Miklós Volgyesi is a judge. The judicial authority, in case you don't know, Congresswoman, is independent of government. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] and independent of legislative power. So let's just say she could at least have a notion of separation of powers. A judge operating independently of power to speak and stand up for a case in accordance with his conscience and the legal order; and we are very grateful to him, to this day, that he has been able to point so firmly and effectively at the violations of the Fidesz ceremony, so I would not confuse that with what my fellow Member, Mr Rózsa Hoffmann, said, so that he can be expected to be loyal to the leadership of a state institution. It's two different things. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, in addition to the fact that there were unworthy moments in today's debate, and there were personalities in it... [[Mr. Novak intervenes. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] And I'm glad that Congressman Novak always yells something stupid, and that's something to laugh about. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] It would be good if you were to enroll in the National University of Public Service, because at least you would see from the inside how the National University of Public Service works. But now, aside from all that, I thank my fellow Members for their contributions. I've learned from many contributions, I've learned. We smiled well at my fellow Member Hiller's exposé, but I think that it is very important, that it should be considered for us, too, which I am grateful for, and thank you very much for the activity of my fellow Members and for taking today's debate seriously and preparing for it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the promotion of the development and deployment of electronic communications services and infrastructure, and on legislative amendments on the accessibility of the legislative framework until closure. The submission is T/5051. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[20.20]]
u2015-06-09-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As today is Prime Minister's Day in Parliament, we should say so, because, if I count it correctly, this is our fourth presentation, although the Prime Minister's Office is only the third, but we have had a presentation, which we have noted with Minister Lazarus and several of my fellow State Secretarys, and we must be very active in Parliament today, so allow me to share with my fellow Members the rapporteur's exposé of the bill before us. As you know, my fellow Members, the government has tabled a bill to encourage the development and construction of electronic communications services and infrastructure, and to make the legislative framework accessible. One of the objectives of the European Union's Digital Agenda is to ensure that the fast broadband link is available to the entire population of the European Union by 2020, i.e. to ensure access to internet with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabit/seconds. The Hungarian government, recognising the importance of broadband development, has brought forward the deadline for achieving this objective in 2018 with the Digital National Development Programme. As you know, my fellow Members, this is a question that has been raised in countless debates, and we have talked about this several times. The government has a clear intention to provide everyone with access to the Internet with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabits/seconds by 2018. The aim of the bill before you is, therefore, my fellow Members, to remove legal barriers to the establishment of network infrastructure in order to fully cover the country with a broadband network, thereby encouraging the availability of broadband electronic communications services in the country. The government's above recognition has been driven by the fact that the development of broadband networks has become an equally important factor in economic development today, such as the construction of motorways, the provision of energy or water supply. Being online is part of our lives. More and more services are being built to quickly access the data. These include cloud services, which require appropriate network infrastructure to operate. Anyone unable to keep up with these needs will fall behind and lose their competitiveness. This can, of course, be understood by individuals, companies, companies, states and countries. Here we have a great international competition, and therefore we must do everything we can to ensure that access to the Internet world is possible for all Hungarian citizens as well. In order to achieve the goals of the Digital Nation, it is necessary to establish a regulation that can address the most common problems of development, the delay in licensing procedures, thus encouraging market participants to make improvements. Thus, the amendment of the law before you is also essential for an adequate legislative environment to be available behind the EU's proposals to support network development, which will be launched in the summer of 2015. Based on the identification of basically regulatory barriers to the construction of networks, the following main issues have been identified. 1. Networking shall be preceded by the acquisition of the contribution of the owner of the alien property to the construction work or the permit to use land. However, networking is often delayed due to problems with ownership contributions and failure to agree on the parties. 2. Physical infrastructure is a very costly part of networking and its exclusive holding is a very competitive advantage. The deployment of electronic communications networks would be greatly facilitated if service providers could build their networks on the trails of existing different network utilities, in particular electricity lines. At present, this depends solely on the success of the agreement between service providers. We can all report places, cases where this failed, the attempt to negotiate. We also know that there are providers that are therefore in a monopoly position in each area, because others have not been given the opportunity to appear on the market with their services. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot stress enough what improvements infocommunication services can achieve not only in individual quality of life - see online communities, home work, wide range of quality content services - but also in the operation of businesses and public administration. Here we can think of business services based on the Internet, customer allocation, distance work. But I could also set an example of the online placement of government services, the operation of customer gates, which I think will make life significantly easier for any citizen who has a customer gate. Early implementation of the Digital Agenda reinforces these positive economic, social and sociological impacts. The investments needed to achieve national coverage, the direct and indirect effects of the spread of broadband internet use, have a positive impact not only on GDP but also on employment. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the positive effects can be exploited in Hungary. The bill clarifies and complements the existing legislation on the placement of communications structures. In this context, the amendment also proposes a partial adoption of the directive on measures to address the problems encountered by builders and to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. The Directive should be fully transposed into domestic legislation by 1 January 2016. The amendments concern mainly the Electronic Communications Act. One of the most important parts of the proposal is that all public utility networks - water, gas, electricity, road, rail, and the others - must provide access to their physical infrastructure on fair terms to build a broadband network. Refusal of access to physical infrastructure can only be done for reasons defined by law, for example if the granting of access would prejudice the security of supply of the given public utility network. If service providers cannot agree on conditions of use, they may contact the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which shall decide on access, consideration or other conditions. If it is necessary to build a network on a foreign property - a very common case, as you know, my fellow Members - networking is a condition for the owner of a foreign property to contribute to the construction work or for obtaining a permit to use land. The bill sets out the grounds for refusal of ownership consent, thus laying the conditions and frameworks for granting and rejecting it on an objective basis. The proposal clarifies that private property can only be used in final and final cases for the purpose of setting up electronic communications networks. The communication network shall be resolved primarily in public areas or using an existing communications network or other public utility infrastructure. If this is not possible, the communication works may be placed on the property of the local government or, in the final case, on private property. Dear House, In short, the bill before you aims to implement both EU and domestic obligations, promoting and encouraging the national deployment of broadband infrastructure to achieve the goal of the Digital Nation programme. The government's aim is to ensure that national economic and social benefits can be achieved by establishing high-speed networks providing national coverage, with this amendment of the law and the planned additional measures. I think it is important to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that from the beginning of the drafting of the bill, the players in the communications market have also been involved, so that, in addition to professional expectations, they have tried to take the market needs into account. Therefore, I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members that T/5051. Please support bill No 1 in the course of the parliamentary debate. Of course, we also look forward to your amendments. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-09-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the speeches by its representatives and, in particular, the speeches by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Dénes Galambos. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill amends the regulation of electronic communications in line with the objectives set out in the national infocommunication strategy and the Digital Nation programme. The main points and logic of the regulation are highlighted in the European Union directive. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: European Directive No 1 aims to reduce the cost of network deployment and improve sectoral coordination and exploit cross-sectoral synergies. Therefore, the obligation to transpose a directive is fulfilled by means of legislation which takes account of the above principles. The Union's objective is to create a digital economy that promises sustainable economic and social benefits. The deployment of networks will be significantly facilitated if you can build on the trails and infrastructure of existing network utilities, as the State Secretary referred to in his expozee. Building works in this context make it unnecessary for social and environmental costs and overall lack of competitiveness to hinder this work and improve competitiveness. High-quality digital infrastructure supports virtually all sectors of the modern and innovative economy and is also of paramount importance for social and territorial cohesion. [[20.30]] All citizens, as well as the private and public sectors, must have the opportunity to become part of the digital economy. The objective is to reduce the costs of broadband deployment in the EU and to reduce the administrative burden. This could result in the fuller digitisation of the public sector, the dissemination of e-administration and, as Mr State Secretary pointed out, the use of the benefits that already exist at the customer gate, and, for the next EU development period, the vast majority of applications, almost 100 percent, can be used by electronic means. This is why ensuring broadband access to these networks is an emphasis and priority. In addition, the aim, of course, is for citizens through e-administration - and let me refer to the information published in yesterday's press release: in the area of e-administration, the surveys that are now being carried out by the various regional government windows are the items that citizens would like to take out from the system and which they would like to use through e-administration. I think that all of this supports the need to promote and facilitate these broadband availability by legal means. The first of the legislation covered by the bill is LXXVIII 1997. Act No.1, amendment of the Law on the Adaptation and Protection of the Built Environment. This amendment regulates the settlement settlement contract, which provides a flexible framework for the cooperation of the public and private entities concerned in the necessary modification of the settlement arrangements for the investments to be carried out in the settlement. The better functioning of the legal institution and the speeding up of the investments needed to ensure broadband internet connections are expected, and the contracting procedure is limited in a manner that can be planned by the parties and within time limits. The current legislation does not set deadlines, so with this change, not only the decision on the investment but also the contract for its implementation will be settled within a reasonable time. The other legislation, which is affected by the bill, is Act C of 2003, which is the Law on Electronic Communications. The aim of the amendment is to simplify licensing rules for so-called NGA networks, ensuring appropriate transmission speeds, and to reduce the current obstacle rules, in line with the objectives of the Digital National Development Programme. The authorisation procedure for the provision of Internet services is subject to electronic communications regulation. According to the current legislation, the contribution of the owner of the alien property to the construction work or the acquisition of a permit for land use prevents networking and requires the legal situation to be resolved. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority may restrict the owner of the property concerned by its decision establishing the right of use or other rights of use in its use. According to the National Media and Communications Authority Regulation 2013/14, the builder is required to demonstrate his building rights by consent, decision, final court decision or decision. In practice, this regulation results in prolonged processes and should therefore be amended. Article XIII of the Fundamental Law According to Article 4 of the Act, everyone has the right to property, and the right to use the property and other sub-licenses of ownership is protected accordingly. It is only possible to limit this after examination of the proportionality of the necessity, i.e. if the weight of the restriction is in proportion to the public interest or does not infringe fundamental rights. According to the principle of equality of forms of ownership, public ownership cannot be distinguished in either a positive or a negative way. In many cases, the legislation raises the principles developed by the Court of Justice to the level of law, which typically set out the limits of the law-making activities of the Authority and guarantees of compliance with the pre-law conditions in decisions taking into account the interests of the owners and ensuring the proper exercise of their rights. On the basis of the practice, the electronic communications service provider is more responsible as it must do everything in its power to ensure that the agreement is concluded on a consensual basis. One of the basic conditions for this is that you have all the information you need. Amendments to both of the aforementioned laws which continue to allow the restriction of ownership only in accordance with the proportionality requirement and the introduction of procedural obligations on owners, the elimination of complications related to the acquisition of contributions and the simplification of procedures. I would ask you to support the adoption of the bill on the basis of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-09-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Árpád Velez. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-09-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The aim of the bill, i.e. the development of broadband Internet networks, must be supported in any way. It is worth mentioning that the bill is closely linked to T/4741. Law No 1 on the basis of which the network operator developing the broadband Internet network is exempted from the obligation to pay public utility taxes for five years after the development has been put into use. It should be noted that the Orbán government has spent the last five years not on infrastructure development, but on obstruction, such as utility tax, telephone tax, revenue-related communications tax, Internet tax, etc. The government has written a very nice curve - I would also like to point out this - since last year's Internet tax demonstration, the government was going in the opposite direction. Nevertheless, the MSZP agrees with the aim of the bill, which is supported by the fact that Hungary really needs to build high-speed communications networks as widely as possible. Thank you.
u2015-06-09-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novák. You don't have to run, I'll wait for you, Congressman, to take your place. Put your microphone on. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-09-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems that a little infrastructure development would also be needed in the Chamber, because we are short of power, when we have to attend so many hours of laptop sweeping sessions. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik XXI. As a party of the century, it has always supported the development of electronic communications services and infrastructure, especially if, as is the proposal, it can speed up networking, thereby improving the availability of the faster internet, not least, it can have a price reduction effect, and we also trust that, perhaps we can trust, because it could be a little easier to develop the infrastructure. However, we have some concern, and let me start with this, perhaps, because the second one is the second one. Article 22/A, as amended Paragraph (2) of the Act makes me a little concerned, since it is about the transfer of business secrets, which, although required to be dealt with in accordance with data protection rules, we are aware of what this may mean in reality. Most of the proposal is therefore good and good, but it is only infrastructure, which is important, of course, but there is also serious problems with operation, maintenance and development. We have questions, of course. How much money does the government have to spend on this? Will the Internet finally be free, as Jobbik has long suggested, in parallel with the reconstruction of the infrastructure? Following the deployment, since small operators are rarely populated but are not worth operating in the most deprived areas, does the government plan to support operations or reduce consumer charges? We also expect answers to these questions because Jobbik has fought many times in recent years to introduce the free internet. Our collection of signatures has just been completed in recent weeks, whose aggregation is still ongoing, but we can already see that around 98-99 percent support for the fundamental rights of the free, basic internet among Hungarians, on which hundreds of thousands of people have expressed their views in voting both on the Internet and on the street stands. I think that, as the government has accepted the advertising tax initiated by Jobbik earlier, it should also accept that it would be possible to introduce the free internet from its revenue and that we would be glad that the government would finally take it. [[20.40]] I am a little concerned about the transfer of business secrets, which, although required to be dealt with in accordance with data protection rules, we are aware of what this may mean in reality. Most of the proposal is therefore good and good, but it is only infrastructure, which is important, of course, but there is also serious problems with operation, maintenance and development. We have questions, of course. How much money does the government have to spend on this? Will the Internet finally be free, as Jobbik has long suggested, in parallel with the reconstruction of the infrastructure? Following the deployment, since small operators are rarely populated but are not worth operating in the most deprived areas, does the government plan to support operations or reduce consumer charges? We also expect answers to these questions because Jobbik has fought many times in recent years to introduce the free internet. Our collection of signatures has just been completed in recent weeks, whose aggregation is still ongoing, but we can already see that around 98-99 percent support for the fundamental rights of the free, basic internet among Hungarians, on which hundreds of thousands of people have expressed their views in voting both on the Internet and on the street stands. I think that, as the government has accepted the advertising tax initiated by Jobbik earlier, it should also accept that it would be possible to introduce the free internet from its revenue and that we would be glad that the government would finally take it.(20.40) But since we have not yet seen openness to this, I am forced to ask these questions again, which, of course, underpins even this small step that we are seeing from the government, which is therefore fundamentally supported by Jobbik. We believe that the free internet could boost telework, remote control, electronic administration, and reduce car traffic as well as the unnecessary line-up. The free basic internet could be a continuation of the reduction in overhead costs alone, and also by lowering the price of major Internet packages. For example, mobile operators themselves would implement the free internet with a small amount of public support, in our view, because it is also in their interest that many - and this is realistic - subscribe to a larger service when using a limited package. In fact, along this business policy, one of the Hungarian mobile companies already provides half-gigabyte internet access to certain voice-based subscriptions free of charge. And, of course, there are international examples, such as free WiFi in Los Angeles, and even the free WiFi in the main squares of the best-run settlements, because we have launched the Internet-friendly settlements movement, precisely to draw attention to the benefits of this. This proposal by Jobbik should also be considered because the third lowest proportion of regular broadband mobile users in the European Union is the third. Unfortunately, I cannot provide very recent data, as we have not seen detailed data on this in the latest annual report on 2014 by NMHH, but previously in the same report, for example, and at that time we have seen that, compared to gross average earnings, domestic mobile internet charges are more than 3 times that of Slovenia and the Czech Republic and 23 times that of Denmark. So we're not talking about a price difference of 10-20-30 percent, we're talking about a price surplus of 2,200 percent, if we compare it to the average wage. I therefore think that the government announcement that we have heard so many times is very misleading, that by 2018 there will be broadband internet everywhere, because it will only be there where they can pay outstandingly high charges in international comparison. We have said this several times, for example, in the debate on the advertising tax marked as a source of free internet, where L. Simon László, I am very pleased to hear our criticism, it is a very rare moment, but I have to say that he responded sympatheticly, he had a soundy wording. [[L. Simon László: Don't get your hopes up.]] Let me quote you for that. In response to our criticisms, he said that, indeed, Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the internet cheaper than we do in Hungary, and will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change in this area, he turned to the competent minister, and we see that, unfortunately, no serious steps have been taken since then. So news is that instead of using the Internet tax, they want to reduce net tax and reduce VAT, but they have not yet talked about how they are trying to do this, when the VAT directive of the European Union does not allow Hungary to set a discount rate on internet charges, and unfortunately, I have not been given an answer to my criticism on the occasion of this. We fear, therefore, that this will remain just one announcement, and then it can be pointed out to the European Union, because we know that it is regularly interfering with our internal affairs, so we are afraid that this will not happen either. Of course, we are also pleased to see the move, if it was only at word level, that the Internet tax is no longer being considered today, as Zsolt Nyitrai said in 2008 in the opposition - he was very, very different from the opposition at the time, of course - and I quote him, the specialist politician of Fidesz. The Internet is a genre of freedom, not of these prevailing trends in the world, to tax the Internet, but rather to make it more free, more accessible to all our countrymen. Zsolt Nyitrai said that when the MSZP wanted to introduce the Internet tax, then Fidesz came up with the same idea, but perhaps they saw that they couldn't help the Jobbik government to this extent, and therefore they abandoned their plan of suicide. Indeed, it is the Internet where, for example, balanced information can otherwise be required by law, and throughout the media it can be trampled on by assisting the Media Council of Fidesz members only. This is why this democracy does not work, for example, because it is not possible to obtain credible information. On the Internet alone, on the one hand, we saw the plan of the Internet Tax, on the other hand, not only the plan, but the introduction of the real internet censorship was guaranteed here by law, and László Kövér went beyond that, as a state in the state, here, in the building of the Hungarian Parliament and in the building of the Office Building, made the most read right-wing news portal, Kuruc.info unavailable to Members and employees on the official network. I think it is wrong for a state to try to play censor here in the state, or to hold the word to Members, or, say, make the most read right-wing news portal impossible. As Zsolt Nyitrai said, the Internet is a genre of freedom, so this would really require a different approach. The present proposal is therefore fundamentally eligible, even if Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is not applicable. A few criticisms have also been formulated within the scope of this article. I hope that our arguments in favour of the free internet will be considered, whether from advertising tax revenue or from other sources, but they will finally give us the opportunity to lower the Internet usage charges, because this is the key to everything. There won't be any broadband access anywhere if you can't afford it. So we would be very pleased if the government could finally consider this proposal in parallel. And finally, let us talk a little bit about the other aspect, because it is understandable, as I said, XXI. As a party of the century, we support these developments, but it is not possible to run head-on against the wall, and sometimes you have to look at what people are saying about them, those who are now subject to restrictive provisions. For example, the amendment also introduces a 45-day time limit for the establishment of an agreement with the owner's contribution and for the negotiation of property owned by a third party, and if such consultation fails, it may then be replaced in the official procedure by a decision of the authority. But that's a problem in some cases. Dear Parliament, Which one doesn't fit the list, and why? Cradle, kindergarten, school, church, radio tower that emits electromagnetic radiation. Are you sure the National Media and Infocommunications Authority made a good and orderly decision when you refused a multinational company's building permit to build a tax tower in the centre of Dunavarsány? These two questions may have been a little long, but this is in fact just a clever title of the written question that Dr. Gábor Staudt, my fellow group member, presented to János Lázár after a few months ago he was approached by Dunavarsányi citizens, so he is a better fellow Member with their next problem. By the way, I think this is the case, the difference may be that this is about Telenor's antenna tower. The inhabitants of the suburban residential area of Dunavarsány faced the problem of sheltered institutions, including kindergartens, kindergartens, schools, gymnasiums, churches, in the immediate vicinity of Telenor Hungary Zrt. It installed a 40-metre-long tower base station, against which the residents could not express either their will or their fear in time, due to the silent policy of the authorities. First, the town notary concluded that the construction of the base station did not comply with either the local construction regulations or the national settlement and construction requirements, and then, in view of the changes in legislation, the NMHH carried out the repeated procedure, which finally granted the building permit. Now, if two decisions previously rejected the building permit of the multinational company, on the grounds that neither the HÉSZ, the local construction regulations, nor the OTEK, so that the national settlement and construction requirements were met, then how could Telenor Magyarország Zrt. for later the same plot of construction permit? Why didn't the National Media and Infocommunications Authority consult with the municipality, ask for its opinion in order to give the city and its residents the right decision and not just the company they refer to? If the municipality had been consulted, it would, of course, have been able to offer more suitable land outside residential areas, since the city did not want to stand in the way of development, but neither the builder nor the office requested the opinion of the local government. I think that this story also shows that the NMHH does not take into account health and environmental requirements, and refuses to ask people for their opinion when installing possible transmitter towers, which I do not think is acceptable. [[20.50]] It is typical, however, that John Lazarus answered that question. This template simply answers my fellow Member that NMHH is an independent regulatory body independent of the government, which is also legally true, but it is clearly a political influence, while the government washes its hands in every media violation that it is not its jurisdiction, although we actually know that it operates under manual control, and only the delegates of Fidesz have been included in the most important media monitoring body, while all parliamentary parties have previously been delegated to this body. And, well, the NMHH was led by a Fidesz party man, and he's standing right now, so we can't accept this one-sided approach. We would like to see more balanced, more prudent administrative procedures, since, of course, the aim is to be supported, but it does not matter what price that will be achieved. First of all, it must be in the interests of people's health and society, and then only support for economic companies can come, so that they can build the Internet more cost-effectively across the country. I think that people are cooperative in achieving this goal, so I don't understand why in many cases they don't agree with them, because we see that NMHH is just doing its own thing. Therefore, while we basically support the proposal, with some concern in the context of Article 2 (2). With regard to access to certain business secrets, we would like the government to consider, in principle, not only making broadband internet available throughout Hungary, but also cutting down its price, since it is also very high in international comparison in Hungary, which will cause a serious competitive disadvantage. And we are glad that L. Simon László and I are in agreement on this, but we would like the entire government to consider this and a budget to reflect the fact that they are actually trying to lower the internet charges. We do not see that while service providers are currently receiving different discounts, what they give in return to Hungarian people, such as by reducing internet charges. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-06-09-172	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We have a proposal for an amendment of the law that may be welcome, but the instruments used reveal the unconceptuality behind it and the whittling of the rules. Mr.Orbán said that he could list the mistakes of his government until sunrise. That's certainly true. This amendment seeks to repair the damage caused by one of the important missteps, the special tax on telecommunications companies, late, partially and with objectionable solutions. Why am I saying that the telecommunications special tax was a mistake? After all, those who followed the work of the LMP know that we would like the multi-enterprises to finally take their share of the public burden. Firstly, because the special taxes imposed on the sector always end up on the back of people, consumers. However Fidesz insisted, all the special taxes were passed on to the families. Maybe some people didn't realize that the government was actually hurting them, so it could bring political benefits to Fidesz-KDNP. But the economic and social effects were the same as if people were being directly victimized by the government. Secondly, the imposition and subsequent extension of the special tax destroys legal certainty, the predictability expected from the State. It creates an environment where fair players are risky and difficult to cope with. It's easy for those who are already subject to laws, who are informed by inside information of the government's intentions, or who are compensated by the government for their own greasy assignments. Thirdly, the mechanism of the telecoms special tax was also very damaging. Since its introduction, the development of telecommunications networks has virtually stopped. In light of what we've done so far, it's no wonder. It's a miracle the government didn't think of that back then. At a recent economic conference, Minister Mihály Varga acknowledged the government's commitment to the European Union and confirmed in the government's decision on the development programme for the Digital Nation: by 2018, it will provide access to the Internet with a minimum speed of 30 megabits throughout the country. However, this requires a high pace of development by telecommunications companies, which is hampered by the tax burden on the sector. At present, every line at another meter creates a new tax burden for companies, and therefore the improvements are practically frozen. However, Hungary is far below the average of developed countries in the retail internet service. Few people use the Internet, and the IT sector provides jobs to fewer people in proportion. The existing public utility tax hits not the large service providers, but the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Some companies have more taxes than their income on a small settlement network section. For this reason, developments also pause in areas where they can have the greatest positive impact. According to the data of the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, there are settlements where more than 8 thousand HUF per month is payable to the service provider as a tax. This is more than a monthly fee from a subscriber. In dozens of settlements, the tax is between thousand and 8 thousand forints. In addition, there are hundreds of other settlements where the service providers do not have the total income, but their total profits can be taken away by the tax every month, and as subscribers they have hundreds of HUF. This is a huge mistake. According to a study by the World Bank, the 10 percent increase in internet penetration causes a 1 percent increase in GDP, i.e. the more people online, the richer a country. A tailor who always reaches for the scissors first and then for the measuring tape comes to mind. And maybe you haven't even heard of a custom sample yet. Finally, he wonders that his clothes don't suit anyone. This is the idea management that we've been raising our word against for the fifth year. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the law that we are discussing now seeks to make up for the above errors, at least in part. It would simplify, so to speak, the authorisation of telecommunications access and the installation of infrastructure. Electronic communications works can be built in a rather simplified procedure, which means that they may be limited to private property. This could damage serious environmental and health interests. All in all, I must say that we agree with the aim, but in this form, the May Other Politics is of great concern, and it will not be able to support the government's presentation in this form. Thank you.
u2015-06-09-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-09-174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the bill will not cause much debate. This can be seen from the fact that we could not hear any further speeches other than the speaker's round of speeches. Basically, all my fellow Members agreed with the intentions and aims of the bill, but it is the skepticism of my fellow Member Ikotity that nuances this somewhat. Congressman Novak was the only one who discussed how to get the Internet with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabits/seconds to all households. I put it exactly in the author's exposé, which is why I would like to repeat it, so I did not say that we are introducing the Internet into everyone's apartment, but I said that I literally quote myself that it is our goal, and that is where the quote comes from: until 2020 the fast broadband connection should be available to the entire population of the European Union, i.e. everyone should have access to the internet with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabit/seconds. This is not the same as bringing him into his house, which means that everyone must have the opportunity to bring him into his house, and I continued by recognising the importance of broadband development, the Hungarian Government has brought the deadline for achieving this objective forward to 2018. [[21.00]] That's the first step. Then you can talk about the reasons why Internet services are so expensive in Hungary, and what is the responsibility of the state in this area. Let's just say that VAT is not the most important problem here. So I think it's obvious to everyone. However, the bill before us is not what Congressman Novak has been talking about. This doesn't have to be the bill. This bill seeks to overcome administrative and technical physical obstacles that lie ahead of infrastructure developments. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] By the way, if Congressman Novak had been paying attention, I also made it clear that the order is that it is possible to place it in a state-owned area, only because there was a specific example of a tax tower, a municipal owned property and, in the final case, an infrastructure element, a unit on a private property. And to limit the time limit for action and the time limit for agreement between the parties to 45 days, I think it is very right. I mean, it can't be infinite, making the debate uncoordinated, otherwise they'll never agree in life. And at some point, you have to cut this Gordian knot, and you have to tell the authorities that it's good, you can't agree, so it's in the community's best interest, so that's how we're gonna do it, and that's what's gonna happen. Let's just say, if you like, the arbitrary nature of certain people, sabotage them, can't prevent the infrastructure from developing. Extremely extreme examples could be given from here, nearby. Think of the trolleybus in District V, what it depends on is that they cannot normally build, develop and use infrastructure for the benefit of the whole community. So, on the whole, I can say, Congressman Novak, that as the World Heritage Act will come and we will be discussing the issue of heritage protection on the next agenda, there is no power in this House, because this is a prominent monument, where all the trees are, all the benches and chairs, and for reasons of fire protection, are not allowed by the heritage authority. [[Mr. Novak from the box intervenes.]] , does not allow the introduction of 220 by the heritage authority. At the time of the renovation of the House, modern low voltage systems were not yet available in the sense that they are already available today. In a next renovation, it'll be worth considering. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for being so active in the debate. They seem to support the bill that I thank you for. If you have amendments, you are also welcome. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-175	Thank you, Secretary of State L. Simon László. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/5053. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-09-176	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is LXXVII of 2011 on World Heritage. contains an amendment to the Act. The amendments are basically administrative simplifications, technical amendments, but it is worth talking a little more about what this law contains and why it needs to be amended. Since the establishment of UNESCO, it has established a number of conventions, as my fellow Members know, in order to recognise and preserve the world's cultural assets. Among these, the Convention on the Protection of the World's Cultural and Natural Heritage, adopted at the General Conference of the United Nations Organisation for Education, Science and Culture in Paris in 1972, commonly known as the World Heritage Convention, aims to protect the built and natural environment. Under the Convention, world heritage is a cultural or natural unique value that the UNESCO World Heritage Committee has included in its World Heritage Programme. This program is one of the most legitimized programs in the world. It is a prestige issue to take part in, it is a prestige issue to name heritage elements, and they are of great importance, especially in the field of tourism. According to the Convention, cultural heritage can constitute architectural, monumental painting or sculpture works, archaeological elements, building ensembles, locations which meet the criteria of authenticity, historical authenticity and at least one of the following six criteria: masterpiece of human creative spirit, or significant influence on the development of architecture, technology, monuments, urban planning and landscape design within a defined period or cultural area. This is also the Buda Castle District and the Danube side view. The third aspect is a unique embodiment of a living or already extinct civilization. The fourth aspect is an outstanding example of an architectural style, ensemble, technology or landscape reflecting one or more ages of human history. We also have one, in Hungary, I could highlight Pannonhalma. The fifth aspect is an outstanding example of traditional human establishment or reservation representing one or more cultures. In Hungary, the old village of Horlókő or Hortobágy, or the cultural landscape of Fertő. It is important to know, ladies and gentlemen, that the cultural heritage of the world is not the same as that of humanity's intellectual cultural heritage, which was also created by UNESCO as a partner of the world heritage in 2003. However, among the cultural heritage sites are the so-called cultural landscapes, historical landscapes, which have evolved through the interaction between man and nature, i.e. they were man-made, but in collaboration with the natural effects. In addition, the so-called World Heritage Site exists. In accordance with the Convention, natural world heritage may constitute aesthetic or scientifically extraordinary physical and biological formations or groups of formations, geological and physiological formations of extraordinary value for science or preservation, clearly defined areas and natural landscapes for the housing and/or place of production of animal and plant species threatened with extinction, which comply with the criteria of integrity, integrity, integrity and integrity and at least one of the following four criteria.1. Natural phenomenon or area of extraordinary natural beauty and aesthetic importance. 2. An outstanding example in the representation of the great period of earth's history. 3. An outstanding example of the ongoing ecological and biological processes. 4. It contains the most characteristic and important natural habitats of biodiversity for the maintenance of in situ, including endangered species with universal values of excellence in science and preservation. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment in Hungary, we count eight world heritage sites. It is only for the sake of repetition that we list these, since it is important to draw attention to this in the public eye through Parliament. In Budapest, the Danube banks and the Buda Castle District, the Andrássy Avenue cultural heritage, the old village of Hollókő and its surroundings are also cultural world heritage, the Aggtelek karst and Slovak karst caves are natural heritage, the Benedictine Archabbey of Pannonhalm and its natural environment are cultural, the Hortobágy National Park and the purely cultural cemetery of Pécs Óchristény are cultural and the cultural landscape of the Tokaj-hegyalja historical wine region also has a cultural heritage title. I think it's also a very nice list that we're proud of. The World Heritage Act, as you know, was adopted in 2011, and entered into force in the previous government cycle and on 1 January 2012. Following this, we adopted the implementing regulations on the World Heritage Management Plan, the World Heritage Complex Impact Assessment Documentation and the Government Decree on World Heritage Expected Sites in 2011, then the 2012 Nefmi Regulation on the World Heritage janitorship, and then the Government Decree on the UNESCO Hungarian National Committee in 2012. [[21.10]] Since then, we have amended the law several times, which were mostly minor amendments; now, in 2015, we are proposing a new amendment to this House. The truth is that these amendments have led to the experience gained in implementing the World Heritage Act, in these three years, I would say that in two and a half years, since the law was in force, we have become richer with many experiences. The amendments concern the simplification and efficiency of the process of drawing up legislation and the World Heritage Management Plan, aimed at rationalising the time limits, so these are already changes resulting from operational experience that do not affect the fundamental essence and spirit of the law. The amendment that is now in front of you is basically aimed at regulating world heritage sites, and this is important because our goal, our intention, is to give as many Hungarian sites as possible a world heritage title in the future. As you know, my fellow Members, at the moment, we have more than one place to look forward to. I would like to highlight a few elements, after all the points of the amendment. The amendment links the revision of the list of world heritage sites to the World Heritage List. In conclusion of the review, the Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage proposes to the Government a landmark location selected for the World Heritage Mark, which is decided by the Government. Only for the site selected by the government for World Heritage Marking shall the World Heritage Management Plan be drawn up. This is very important, so that we do not burden those who would otherwise like to acquire a world heritage title, so that we only have to draw up the necessary treatment plan if the government has already selected them from among the candidates. Therefore, only in the case of a location selected by the government for world heritage nomination should the World Heritage Management Plan be drawn up, which represents a significant savings for the budget, since the central financing of the management plan for all the sites of the future is not necessary. At the same time, the mandatory part of the World Heritage Label is the management plan, which should therefore be prepared for the selected site. It is also necessary to designate the world heritage guardianship for the site selected for the World Heritage Marking, as the organisation responsible for the nomination should be indicated in the registration documentation - this is due to international rules. In this case, the janitorship is responsible for contributing to the nomination. The resources necessary for the World Heritage Marking shall be provided in the central budget. In this regard, Article 12 of the Law provides that: §2 of the Act provides for the establishment of budgetary funds relating to the title of World Heritage. In addition, it is essential to further clarify the standards of protection required for the World Heritage Label, as the previous text included ex lege protection among the possible categories, which, however, does not provide sufficient guarantees to preserve the outstanding universal values of the World Heritage Site. In addition to previous specific legal references, the amendment therefore includes a reference to acts declaring preventive protection. In view of the above reasons and the foregoing, the amendment of the World Heritage Bill serves the following purposes: deregulation of unnecessary legislation, elimination of duplications and overlaps, revision of expensive rules that slow down proceedings. The second is the removal of the obligation to create a KET and establish a janitorship in the case of expected sites. As I have already mentioned, there is no reason for the rules governing the world heritage area to apply to areas for which there is no guarantee that they will be promoted to the World Heritage Committee or the title of World Heritage. Such sites shall be protected with individual protection. Third, the protection of other areas of expectation is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The enforcement of the protection rules laid down under the law guarantees, which is the joint responsibility of owners and managers. They should be aware that if these rules are not taken into account and their rights are not exercised in such a way as to maintain the status of the World Heritage Site, it may prevent the decision to name the World Heritage Site. This represents a fundamental change of view in domestic World Heritage Law, which prioritises ownership responsibility and strengthens the more efficient use of limited Community resources. We would like to review the list of sites every five years from 2015 onwards in an emerging system. At the time of the review, the Minister will submit to the Government the proposed sites of the World Heritage Label, in this context it is necessary to clarify the process of the proposal, what the process is, what the process requires ministerial approval, and the rest, and so on. The amendment sets the deadline for reporting from world heritage sites to the government and Parliament for a uniform period of four years. As Minister of State-owned Property Review in World Heritage Areas, he also involved the Minister for Nature Protection if the site is only a World Heritage Prize in a natural category or if the property element is exclusively protected by nature. Finally, the amendment cancels the legal institution of the world heritage expert, as no expert is registered in this category. In view of the fact that the World Heritage Label does not in itself create protection but is based on existing cultural heritage or natural protection, it is therefore appropriate to include an expert of the nature of the protection or a body designated in the Government Decree. Of course, we are also planning to amend the implementing regulation. However, I do not want to talk about the amendment of the implementing regulation here, although my fellow Members sometimes ask me what amendments this will then justify in the implementing regulation. If necessary, I will come back to it later in the debate. The bill before you, ladies and gentlemen, has been added to the amendment of another law. In line with the proposal, it is necessary to amend our view that the limit values for noise and vibration loads should be set at 27/2008. KvVM-EüM Joint Regulation setting the load limits and setting a higher limit of 110 per cent as a special rule for those events. In line with the proposal, we amend certain rules on environmental noise and vibration protection... I'm a little involved in this because, in truth, we're amending the law, and then we're going to amend this regulation, so first we're going to amend the law, and then we're going to amend the regulations... [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: We understand what this is about.]] What? [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: We understand what this is about.]] Would you allow me, Congresswoman, to go through with this?
u2015-06-09-177	Go on, go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-09-178	Really, I'm glad you understand what I haven't told you, but let me finish. I can't believe they won't let you talk. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] We therefore need to amend this law, and we also need to amend certain regulations, because we do not want cultural events to be impossible to hold, concerts, major events, festivals, and we would like to see that compliance with the limit values alone is sufficient to enable them to hold events. Since these are mostly priority tourist sites, these are protected sites, we believe that the inclusion of this amendment may be justified. So I would ask my fellow Members to support the amendment of the World Heritage Act along with these additions. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-09-179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Törő, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-09-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to protect our cultural heritage, the government has adopted a new bill for the preservation of the common heritage of mankind, the 2011 LXXVII. He submitted to Parliament an amendment to the law, which, as the name itself shows, includes the universal and most outstanding values of the natural environment, history, history and art of mankind. [[21.20]] World heritage is the common treasure of all mankind, and it is our duty to preserve it. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, they themselves witness the irreversible destruction of which ancient Oriental monuments fell and fell victim. These world heritage sites can no longer be seen by future generations, which is why we have a particular responsibility to protect and show the world in their entirety. Dear Parliament, I am proud to tell you that the Hungarian government is also leading the world in protecting our eight heritage sites in Hungary. Not only has he joined the World Heritage Convention adopted by UNESCO on the protection of the world's cultural and natural heritage, but he has also made a separate law among the first in the world, which defines the protection of our country's outstanding natural and cultural values in the domestic legal system. On 14 June 2011, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the XXVII of 2011 on the World Heritage without a vote. Law to establish comprehensive rules for world heritage sites, sets out the principles of the management of domestic world heritage areas, the budgetary and professional policy framework for protection. Since the entry into force of the World Heritage Act, the Hungarian government has spent significant budgetary resources, nearly 600 million forints to protect and manage our world heritage sites, setting an example for the world. The Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office shall perform the domestic and international tasks related to the World Heritage. Under the leadership of Deputy Minister L. Simon László, this year he dedicated another 141 million forints specifically for world heritage purposes, on the one hand, to the world heritage janitorship at world heritage sites and, on the other hand, to the implementation of the World Heritage Act. The eight world heritage janitors received a total of HUF 160 million in 2013 and 2014, which will be added to HUF 80 million in 2015. From this source they carry out janitorial tasks, perform urgent renovations at the sites, and make the world heritage known by organising events and publishing publications. In the period 2014-2020, EU funds can also be gained from sites, which demonstrates our country's commitment to safeguarding and presenting our values. The Hungarian government is determined to protect the values of world heritage and establish the legitimate use of the property of the Hungarian state. In 2014, a review of the use and exploitation of state-owned property in the World Heritage Area was carried out, which allowed the Hungarian State to take over the Citadel once again, eliminating the chaotic conditions and unlawful use of the historic property of Budapest, which is part of the World Heritage Site. World heritage management plans and government decrees are expected to be completed in 2015 to demonstrate the government's long-term determination to preserve and protect world heritage areas. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me also tell you about the future of Hungarian world heritage values. In 2015, the investigation of world heritage sites was completed, according to which the MvM decree was published just a week ago, on 2 June 2015 declaring the list of world heritage sites. Based on this, our country has, in addition to the eight World Heritage Sites, a total of ten sites worth winning the World Heritage Label. We hope that the Roman limes will be the first to win the World Heritage Label, which shows that our country was a part of Europe in the past, the protective bulwark of the Roman Empire. In the land of our country there are such outstanding Roman monuments as the Seuso treasure, which, of course, I boast is that it is located in my constituency, in the vicinity of Polgárdi and Szabadbattyan, or the Hadrian Palace, which, according to the government's intentions, is soon to be seen again and its remains on the island of Shipyard, as well as Brigetio and other great Roman cities in Pannonia. L. László Simon, Deputy Minister and his Secretary of State are determined to present the limes to UNESCO in January of next year. Ladies and gentlemen, Our responsibility for our heritage values in Hungary is not only to make a law, but also to take stock of our experiences, to review the implementation of the law so far and to modify it where necessary. The main aim of this bill is to simplify the procedures, taking into account the experience so far, so as to avoid unnecessary costs and burdens, so that the citizens of Hungary can be proud of the title of the World Heritage Label, and that locals should not consider it an unnecessary restriction. Through the amendment of the law, the protection of world heritage sites is highlighted, and the use of promissory sites is limited to a minimum. Dear House, The value-added use of World Heritage Areas is a common concern for all of us, which is promoted by the government with a high priority and full awareness of its responsibilities. I trust that the Parliament will support this intention and endorse the amendment of the law. The World Heritage Label is a bridge that connects us to the countries of the world. Let's walk on this bridge with the proper responsibilities, which is what I'm asking you to do. I propose that the bill be passed. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-09-181	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. I now give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-09-182	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Let me first of all share my doubts with you and take into account the directions that are definitely eligible in the proposal, because they both exist, perhaps I say with a nice number. The first such question is definitely about the World Heritage Site; in any case, the III. As a representative of the district I can say that I very much welcome the fact that the proposal for the limes area of the Roman Empire has been published in the Gazette and that it will be a priority to address this. We have talked about this a lot in this House, and I don't want to talk about it for a long time, but I think it is important that Mr. Roman monuments related to the district, whether the issue of the aforementioned Hadrian's Palace, or the general case of the renovation of the Óbuda Island, or a good number of monuments in the district, linked to limes and linked to the ruins of Aquincum, should be done. I myself very much welcome the fact that this is a priority among the prodigal sites, and I certainly welcome the fact that if this investment is to be made, because I think that we are talking about cultural values, the protection of which is very, very important. At the same time, I believe that it is absolutely true that what is stated in the original legislation is that the protection of the world heritage and the preservation of the land and the preservation of the land are in the public interest. It's a matter of the utmost importance. It is important to state that this is a public interest, because I feel some danger that, although it is clearly true that it is not only the State's duty to preserve this public interest, to work for the preservation of these sites, but also for practically everyone, for our community and for the local authorities, for individuals and for the state, but I still think that, since it is in the public interest, it is the State's responsibility to ensure that the legal obligations are fulfilled in any way, that the site retains its original values, has a unified vision, is embedded in a historical environment, and so on, what is required by the law. This is, therefore, a duty of the State which I think will continue after this regulation, and I therefore believe that we can support this proposal if it does not jeopardise these tasks. [[21.30]] There are things in the proposal that I think can be clarified with an amendment proposal or with some amendments, and there are things that I think can be supported in any way. Let me highlight an element of this regulation that is thought-provoking, perhaps it could be said that it should be considered that this is not what is included in the proposal. With regard to the proposed protection zone for the World Heritage Sites, you say that this protection zone should be designated in justified cases. I think it would be right to think that this should not be designated in justified cases, but in any event, so that there is definitely a protection zone for the long-term areas, because it is important that this protection zone is precisely one of the means to protect these areas from the effects they need to be protected from. At the same time, I think that the direction that is set out in the law is not from the devil, i.e. that different regulations should be made for the places of the world heritage than for the sites of the world. This, I think, is a completely rational direction, because it is perfectly logical to have the government's argument that we are talking about two different things. I'm not sure at all that what's supposed to be a landmark will eventually be a world heritage site. And it is also absolutely true, as stated in the law, that the power of the law alone is insufficient to ensure the integrity of world heritage sites, so many people need to do a lot. With regard to the detailed justification, I can say that there are a number of elements of the law that we can support. We support the direction of two-way regulation, other regulations for the World Heritage Site and other World Heritage Sites, but we do not support the fact that the World Heritage Site is practically completely softened, so we would like to make sure that the protection zone rules also survive in the long-term location. In any case, the administrative facilitations listed by the Secretary of State - I would not repeat them myself - I think they are worthy of consideration, so I believe that these can be realistic proposals, and these are the facilitations that the Socialist Party could support. However, I suggest that the directions set out in point 1 be considered for this reason. With regard to the world heritage expert, I do not think that it is from the devil that this proposal is about. In fact, we could talk about why, of course, there is no such expert, whether we have done everything we can to ensure that there is, but what I can say is that I believe that these tasks can also be solved by the solution inherent in the regulation, so in this sense I believe that this regulation is certainly justified. With regard to the appointment of the janitorship, I think that this is a direction that we absolutely support, because it is vital to solve this task in this way, and it is right that this janitorship should be appointed. In fact, I think that the five-year rules on the list and the renewal of it can in any case also be supported, so this is also a system that we can imagine as a functioning system. However, we believe it is important that sites in the world's heritage can, in any case, preserve the content that made them a place of expectation, do not occur that sites fall out of the world's heritage because the softening of the rules gives them the opportunity to virtually damage these sites and thus cease to be suitable for forming part of the world's heritage. It is interesting that it is indeed, as if a little bit of this proposal had been written in my constituency, because the other part, the issue of noise pollution, is also affected by Article III. district. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. The Sziget Festival, one of the most important popular music festivals of the country, is connected to the district on Óbuda Island, and here is the III. In many cases, the population of the district is pró and versus also clashes with each other about whether this festival is good or not. Some people are very fond of the festival, because it is an extremely important country-building opportunity here. the district and the country, if they keep this, and others claim that this is associated with such noise and environmental damage, which is almost unbearable to many. The truth is very difficult to find here, but I do think it is important that regulations on noise pollution do not soften up significantly. I understand that the bill says that, if these rules are observed, there should not be any indication that there is a breach of law, but I think it is very important to say that it is, however, the operation of a city where residents can rely on interests that are important for their living there, and therefore noise pollution can be extremely significant. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State that, when we talk about softening up these rules, we should see the responsibility here for what can definitely be meant by softening up this regulation. Overall, I can say that I am a little bit ambiguous about the bill before us, and there are quite a number of elements in it that I definitely support. I don't think the direction is from the devil, so if you like it, then the direction of regulation is certainly acceptable to me. We can support the proposal if there is a distribution of doubts about how the rules on prognosis places will be too soft and if they seriously consider the protection guarantees that can be incorporated into the prognosis areas. This is what we are waiting for, and there is still time for that, obviously, in the debate, in light of this, we will develop our voting behaviour. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-09-183	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-09-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you know or remember, during last year's election campaigns, the government announced on huge billboards that Hungary is doing better, and that what more money will be given, and they also made billboard plans individually, and you tend to believe that if you see such a billboard or any advertisement too often, that if the government says so, you will certainly do better, so Hungary will certainly do better. And then we have this draft law before us, not long after the election campaign, and here we have to see that the Hungarian government on issues such as protection of value, such as protecting our cultural heritage, is cheap, penniless, and has an extremely petty attitude, because the many points of the amendment itself are all about what makes the central state spending less. It takes less account of the damage that the government may do to protect our cultural heritage. The other, which is a very important aspect of the changes, is serving private interests. In many cases, the government has changed laws in an absolute personal way, for the sake of some fidesz friends, and I believe that their intentions and expectations to the government are indeed hidden in this law. This is what the government is talking about, instead of realising that, unfortunately, the Hungarian culture of protection of value is very weak, it would try to strengthen, with clear restrictions, the opportunities that could potentially harm these extremely important cultural heritages, and would strictly enforce these restrictions, so that it not only formulates, but also pays attention to their enforcement, and also provides central budgetary resources, with these support to help these sites, these memories, to stay in the best condition. [[21.40]] So instead of doing this, the government is in a defensive position, and in order to save as much as possible on such unnecessary expenses, as is stated here, a lot of things soften the proposal. It may be extremely funny for you to hear what I'm saying here, and the damage you do in general in terms of heritage protection, but then let's quickly run through the past one or two years of events that the government has done in Hungary today in this sense as damage. Here's today, for example. We voted on archaeological sites to give archaeologists eight days and no more important investments to search for areas where appropriate. So we're in a highway construction, and it occurs that we could have found King Atilla's tomb, and we have eight days with a jack and a lift for our archaeologists to explore and document these areas, because they can't obstruct or hinder major public investment in archaeological exploration. That is what you have accepted today to mention only very recently. Or, for example, what they do in relation to monument classifications. All previous monument categories are being kicked out, everything is being reclassified, because they said that a change of function may be justified due to economic sustainability. And I can't help but recall that story again, we hear that a similar change of function will be required in connection with the fate of Vajdahunyad Castle, because economic sustainability dictates that a fidesz buddy should have some sort of catering unit there, say, a casino, like Andy Vajna. And these, I'm telling you, are just the events of the past year or two, Mr. Secretary of State. And then we have this world heritage list before us, which you're reviewing or reviewing, and then you're gonna decide on the World Heritage List, which is marked or not. And you're going to have to assume that you're actually going to be one of the places that you're going to highlight, which you're going to mark, or which one you're not. The works of Ödön Lechner, say you say it's not worth marking as a world heritage? Or, I don't know, the network of landscape houses in Hungary? Or would it be even more interesting - I don't know which one to mention - the ipolytarnoc precinct? The cave systems of the thermal karst in Buda? And so on. Or here the tree bell towers in northern Hungary, which, we know, in Ukraine, in Transcarpathia, the Ukrainian authorities also treat as their own cultural treasure, and I would also like to mark it as a world heritage. But the Hungarian government may withdraw from this, and we may not mark this very important memory. So instead of taking special care of these memories, instead of strengthening the kind of legal order that preserves the conditions and improves them rather than makes them worse, we will have to prepare a management plan only in certain cases, and even these management plans will be passed if the world heritage title has been won in the given area, otherwise they will say that other protection rules are sufficient. We know it's not, and I'll come back a little later to see how wrong it is. And so far, it has been mandatory for the National Assembly to report annually on what happened in the World Heritage Area, now it will be only every four years. It's important, isn't it? Don't let me interrupt you on the phone, Mr. Secretary, but at this point, please, why did you actually have to soften up this part of it? Why does a government only have to report to Parliament every four years? Can't you take the trouble? We are talking about so much law, do these accounts regret us? And just how much money it is, let me quote a few points. With regard to the expected sites, he writes that, therefore, there will be an unjustified additional burden on the budget - I do not know if the management plan needs to be completed; in the future, it is only appropriate to require that certain plans be drawn up for those places where there is a chance that the resources invested will be used in a single way. So all you see in this is money. Or I'll go on: limited Community resources need to be spent more efficiently and more efficiently. Does this mean that our community resources, rather than better performing in Hungary, are doing worse and are only limited? He says they want to make significant savings by making a treatment plan only in such cases. So this whole law is about how to be petty, how to save money on these very important goals. Therefore, we will certainly not be able to support it. At the same time, the question arises: why, there is money for the City Park, there is money for the large radiator museum, which, we know, will be our Ethnographic Museum, there is money for it, can be spent billions on it? But do you regret one or two million of our world heritage sites? What, then, happened to areas already classified as world heritage sites? Let us remember how Tokaj-Hegyalya could have been damaged if that particular straw-burning power plant had been created Szerencsen. Or, for example, see what is happening in downtown Budapest! In areas belonging to the World Heritage Area, the protection zone, old monument buildings are being demolished and preserved only as a kind of cliché architecture, so that only its façade is similar, but it is no longer of the original material, it remains in some way towards the street front. By the way, we're talking inside a completely different building. Yeah, that's what happens all the time in downtown Budapest. I invite Mr. Secretary of State to go and see what is going on in the former district of Antal Rogán, because, yes, this is the way in which building permits and building obligations are issued which, we know, depend on your government office. But if I can come to world heritage for a sentence. You spent 4.5 billion forints on a Courbet painting, but you do not think that for example Munkácsy's Christ trilogy could be classified as a world heritage and should be spent on it. Again, there's the bargaining, the pettyness, the owner, how much money you could give for a painting like this. Obviously, it should not be allowed to be drawn from this in any way or to benefit too much, but what is a national treasure, a national treasure, cannot be allowed to be taken out of Hungary at one time. Now, as my time is very advanced, let me turn to this other proposal, which is also included in the law, namely that in the case of certain festivals, in certain events, you do not think that you will unnecessarily disturb the neighbours by organising such an event, and that the noise emission limit will be drastically increased. Now, let me tell you a festival like this, which happened right here in downtown Budapest on the weekend in Trianon. So instead of having a Trianon memorial organized by the downtown government, it's a festival again - now for many times; we're happy, aren't we? It must be imagined that on a Sunday, so on the Lord's day, I quote, the band Intim Torna Ilegal spoke of cultural events, did the secretary of state, so an orchestra of that name, with a terrible volume, spilled the chinnadrat from himself into late nights. In neighboring buildings, it hits, it can be felt that the walls vibrate, move practically, and even jog in the plates and glasses. Is that so funny, Mr. Secretary? You know, I've been there for a long time, and I have to tell you, it's not very good. And I don't think it's a category of unnecessary disturbance that you can't stay in your own apartment overnight, because you, a fidesz festival, are affecting the life of the neighborhood in this way. [[21.50]] But I would add that you often start on Friday afternoons, so it was already on weekdays and even on Thursdays, and people in the surrounding offices couldn't work because the music was so powerful. You think that's so funny? Tell me what's ridiculous about it. You want to change the law this way. I'm talking about what the social impact will be. After that, at any event that you call an event of great importance, which moves a significant mass, virtually any disturbance and disturbance can occur, because you consider it to be of paramount importance. But let me ask you again: let's assume that there are two major events. Then what do you think the interference between the two events will cause on the basis of this amendment of the law? [[L. Simon László: Interference.]] Let me just remind you of one little Induri-Pinduri moment. On the 15th of March, Viktor Orbán spoke in the Museum Garden. The event started at 11 o'clock, and at 12 o'clock, when Viktor Orbán started his speech, a bell rang because you know the National Museum is very close to the church of Calvin Square. This little sound effect bothered our Prime Minister so much that he ran off to the church with immediate effect that it was possible that the bell was ringing in the church, and what a terrible sound this is, which is so disturbing to him. Yeah, well, since 1456, it's been loose for 500 years in every Christian church at noon. The Prime Minister had to experience this. But if such a small sound effect can be so disturbing, you can imagine, can't you, that an event that I just mentioned has a social impact? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-185	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-09-186	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It was just a few days ago that we could finally be pleased that the amendment of the law adopted by a simple majority at the end of April by the Fidesz-KDNP Parliament - according to which the land belonging to the national parks was subject to the ownership rights of the National Land Fund Management Organisation - was declared by the Constitutional Court to be contrary to the Fundamental Law in several points by the head of state. In other words, the public good and the environment seemed to have won at least once. But the joy was early, and the government was not too late to retaliate. Another amendment of the law, which violates our common interests and values in principle, endangers not only our natural values but also our cultural values, their recognition as world heritage and the conditions for their preservation. Hungary joined the International Convention for the Protection of the World's Cultural and Natural Heritage in 1985. Given that it is an exceptional honor for each country to have its values classified as such, which, in addition to pride and recognition, of course means a great deal for tourism, since it can bring significant revenue, in 2011 the Parliament created the World Heritage Act for the effective implementation of the Convention in order to establish the provisions necessary to preserve outstanding universal values. Between 2011-12 he also adopted the Government Decree on the World Heritage Management Plan, the World Heritage Complex Impact Assessment Documentation and World Heritage Expected Sites, and the Nefmi Regulation on the World Heritage janitorship. But the Orbán government, who knows why, is now not only sweeping the opposition's proposals under the rug, but also backing out of its own decisions, including the protection of values worthy of world heritage. While trying to build country image for an unimaginable amount of money, it eliminates its respected natural and cultural resources. Although the already approved and recognised world heritage values are not yet reached, it makes it difficult for the expected values to receive this qualification. The proposal is more than gestureal. On the one hand, it may not be a coincidence that the government now wishes to receive a report on the state of world heritage areas and the fulfilment of the tasks arising from the convention, not every year, but every four years. This means that in this cycle they no longer want to face the damage caused by decisions to obtain short-term benefits. On the other hand, he believes that the Hungarian legislation on world heritage has proved to be unduly strict, as it has provided for the application of the World Heritage Rules to the status of world heritage in the future. However, these standards provide a kind of guarantee that their condition will not deteriorate during the rating process. For example, the landscape network in Hungary, the Mezőhegyes State Ménesbirtok, the caves of the thermal karst system in Buda, the medieval castle in Esztergom, the Visegrád royal headquarters and hunting grounds, the Tihany Peninsula, the Tapolca Basin witness mountains and Lake Hévíz, the wooden churches of the northeastern Carpathian Basin, the fortress system in Komárom-Komarno, the confluence of the Danube and the Vág rivers, the ipolytarnóc fossils or the independent premodern architecture of Ödön Lechner. It is true that none of this is a football field, but it is a value to the world of the natural values of the Carpathian Basin, which reminiscent of an important stage in the history of our country. A value that could serve the common good. But maybe that's the problem, because Fidesz doesn't think much of the common good, it's only in their own, private and self-interest. That's why they're breaking all the rules that can limit their self-interest in any way. But let us see what this proposal is about in detail. For example, in the case of natural values, the protection zone required to preserve them will be removed from the law. There's no question it's part of the farmhouse so the new landlords don't come across any obstacles. Only in justified cases would you like to see a protection zone, but you no longer need to delimit and declare it according to the different EOV and WGS-84 coordinates, so that it is not transparent. The draft also suggests that, from now on, the Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage will prepare a World Heritage Management Plan for the World Heritage Areas and the World Heritage Areas proposed for the World Heritage List, initiate its revision and, if necessary, its amendment, not according to professional considerations. In addition, until now, the Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has been responsible for providing - possibly from a professional point of view - for the nomination of the sites for the World Heritage List. Now you can only do this on the basis of a government decision. The only positive aspect of this draft is that the State will now declare funding from the central budget the costs of marking the site to be listed in the World Heritage List, provided that it does not miss this as many other legal tasks. If someone thought that these cases were limited to a few areas and that they were not likely to really affect him, it would be wrong, because the amendment of the law on the protection of the heritage also rewrites parts of the environmental law. The Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment 110. The following paragraph shall be added to Article 6 of the Act: . It shall not constitute an unjustified disturbance in possession or a threat to the unnecessary disturbance or exercise of rights of others, in particular neighbours, where an event or event of major importance from the point of view of national economy, tourism, culture or sport, does not exceed the noise emission limit provided for in the legislation or in the relevant permit for it. What does this mean in practice? It means it's a blank check. In the event of events that are supported by the government, the authority that they manage and the directors that are dear to them can do whatever they want, set any limit they want. [[22.00]] The detailed rules are undeveloped, or at least not known. According to this, their events can be as noisy as they want, even with international and domestic standards, without time and space restrictions. Even in the 4th National Environment Programme, submitted by the government a few weeks ago, it is also stated that people who have been exposed to significant noise over a long period of time may experience circulatory diseases in addition to hearing problems. The noisy environment makes concentration difficult, affects sleep quality, thus leading to a decrease in performance and a deterioration in quality of life. The situation in Budapest and many cities is already beyond limit. The noise maps only identify the problem, but the government does nothing about the solution, but it's just about to put another shovel on it. It is not entirely understandable what this government proposal, as a separate motion to amend the environmental law, is doing in the World Heritage Act. Maybe they're just trying to play our guard? To sum up, this bill is unacceptable for the May Other Politics. It is unacceptable that, in the case of world heritage land, the responsibility for protection and preservation under the aegis of saving is left by the government, instead of itself, under the joint responsibility of owners and managers, that they should be aware that, if they do not take account of these rules and exercise their rights in such a way as to ensure that the site is in a state suitable for world heritage registration, it may prevent the decision to name the land of the world heritage. It is also unacceptable that the amendment, for the same reason, links the revision of the list of world heritage sites with the World Heritage List, which could lead to the downgrading of certain sites, without taking into account national and universal values. From a professional point of view, and listening to our good feeling, it is also unacceptable that the World Heritage Management Plan should be drawn up only for the site selected by the government for the World Heritage Marking, saying that this is a significant savings for the budget. And we also object to our rights to a healthy environment being undermined even within the framework of the amendment of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP strongly opposes this proposal and cannot support it in any way. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-187	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members within a 15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-06-09-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that the theme of world heritage sites has reappeared here in this House. I have raised it several times, and I am very sorry that, reading this proposal, I have faced the fact that it does not address the problem that I have had, and perhaps we have already talked to Mr State Secretary about it, and I wanted the issue of Lake Fertő to be resolved by this legislation. It happened that in 2006 a near-SZDSZ entrepreneur privatized most of the lake Fertő with the help of the then government, and it was mainly reeds, a thousand hectares of reeds, and Trianon left about this much. What the water management is still dealing with is the hundreds of hectares, a small administrative error, that allowed it to remain in the management of the Hungarian state at all. Since then, this entrepreneur has been shown not to do the nurturing, taking the relevant EU money, taking these money in hundreds of millions of dollars. Practically all the bodies I've been talking to, whether water, environmental authority, government office, mayors, state secretary, ministries, in writing, verbally, through a press conference, so everyone has given me the truth and, above all, to those who have suffered this sad privatisation, because on the ground, there have been a number of traditional families living and working on reed roofings, which have lived and worked until they have been destroyed. The sad thing is that since 2010, I and all the people in the area have been deceived by solving this problem, because it is on the part of the world's heritage. It happened that two years ago, if I remember correctly, a piece of legislation has been passed that would allow a kind of renationalization of world heritage areas, in a nasty word. When they noticed that this could be used in general on Lake Fertő, they withdrew and became such a lex café in the Buda Hills, and unfortunately they could only apply it to that area, while the logic of the original draft legislation would have allowed, for example, Lake Fertő to be reclaimed by the Hungarian state. We're talking about a perpetual right of free nurturing. Whichever lawyer I've shown so far, everyone laughed at crying that in a democracy such a thing could happen in the middle of Europe. Of course, the ownership itself remained with the state, but it's nothing to do with it, and the state has nothing to do with it. I was hoping when I saw the title of this proposal, that they might have come to their senses, and that they would deal with this problem, which their ancestors had so badly screwed up, obviously not by accident, there was a serious privatization fraud. Then, according to my information, the reason why this case has not been solved is because the person was no longer a close entrepreneur, but helped your campaign. That's the kind of information that got to me, and maybe that's what's protecting this gentleman from being held accountable. But it would be time, Mr. Secretary, to settle the fate of the lake, which, by the way, is heading towards slow destruction, because, in the absence of a snack, recharge is taking place gradually, and the water quality of the lake is catastrophic; once again, we are talking about the world heritage. So I would very much like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, even though I have been talking to the other secretary of state at the purses, I have argued in this matter, at least you should have an impact on the fact that if they can say so much good and good about the parts of the world heritage, they should do so in practice. It really wouldn't cost much to bring justice and finally to the use of the lake to include elements that I think would help long-term sustainable rural development. I am thinking that, of course, this lake cannot be treated for one purpose, it would be very good, the people living in the place, tourism, nature conservation, settlements and everyone would benefit from it, not just one entrepreneur, who, I repeat, has now found out that he has taken hundreds of millions of forints completely illegally. Air photos can prove that he did not do what the European Union money was intended for, i.e. he did not reap the reed. It would be good if the Secretary of State could give us an answer, and perhaps we could push this draft legislation with another amendment to settle this issue in a moment. I would not undertake a detailed analysis of the draft itself, as my fellow Member has done this very well in front of me, which is what I wanted to draw attention to. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-189	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss.
u2015-06-09-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If I can be brave enough to bother you with a little philosophy after ten o'clock in the evening, then I can say that Socrates' argument with the Sophists often consisted of Socrates saying that the concepts are identical to themselves. There's a consequence, so if something's not different, it's not. So I think what the Secretary of State is saying is that if a world heritage-provoked location is the world heritage-provoked location - and this is where Socrates comes in - then it is not a world heritage site; if I sum up this argument well. That is why I said that the position of the MSZP is that this so-called reasoning is not from the devil, this is the logical course of this legislation, even if I can say that I have concerns about the legislation. We will see whether you can change or not, but the tribe of this change, I think, is not an approach from the devil, if you like, I am talking about a 2500-year approach. That is why it would also help the focus of opposition communication, which I would say to my fellow Member Ikotity, if we were to talk a little bit about reality, so that we would not bring the urban noise threat here in the context of noise pollution, when the proposal is clearly not about that, but about what we were talking about here, about the noise pollution of some festivals. I share my doubts, too, and I ask Mr Secretary of State that, if this rule comes into force, they should pay attention to the need to apply it properly, because this can also cause considerable tension, while I myself do not dispute the right to consider festivals that are otherwise useful to the country. [[22.10]] So there are pros and cons here against each other arguments, and I do not say that there is only an organic truth in this, obviously if the government takes on such a responsibility, then that is also the case, but I would not involve urban noise, noise map, and I do not know what else in this debate, there is no point in talking about it this way, that is not what this proposal is about. [[L. Simon László: That's right!]] If you like it, I can say that my criticism applies to what many of you gently press on, that it is good, good, but what will happen to these promissory locations, and here we have a question in the debate, and it would be good if Mr. Secretary of State could say something in his closet that is reassuring that this story will be cheaper. I'm guessing the government has designated these ten locations, right, in this thing, you can see again that they've been assigned. It's some kind of source, obviously expense for everyone. It doesn't matter what we spend these resources on. If I understand correctly - and in this I would ask for a confirmation or a rebuttal - it is here that the resources that are available for this are not spent in accordance with the previous legislation if these plans do not need to be made, but will go to someone else. So, in fact, my question is, in other words, whether it means withdrawal from the sector or not, for example, it would reassure me, I take it that it does not mean withdrawal, but if it would confirm that. In this sense, this is certainly an argument for saving money, and my vote would in any case be determined by whether this in itself constitutes a withdrawal or not a withdrawal from the sector. The other, which concerns it, is also described in this legislation, or is more precisely described in the explanatory memorandum, and in the debate, it has also occurred that this legislation alone is not a guarantee of anything. So even though the legislation sets out objectives that I think everyone here shares, it may well be that our existing world heritage sites are in no condition in which they should be, and it can easily happen that because of anyone's intention, these designated sites are also in worse condition. It is very important to say that it is not good that the regulations that we make help this process. We would definitely like this to be blocked, I think, once again there is no debate among those present. There's a debate that this law is now helping or blocking it, in fact. That is why the MSZP faction says, and I say here too, that it would be worth considering the points in the regulation, which, if any, are important to remain in accordance with the original section or order of the law. For example, the institution of the protected area, which we think might be a good way to ensure that, as a guarantee element, if it remained in the regulation, it could provide adequate protection. But the dog is buried there - and virtually anything can be avoided in this legislation - that what has government will be decided, and everyone is right in that it is not only a government but also a community determination to preserve our world heritage, then it is likely that it will succeed. If there is no such sincere determination, it will not succeed, apart from our intentions. I would therefore like to say that we would consider it important if you could answer these questions, Mr Secretary of State, which, for example, would definitely determine my vote, whether this is the direction that, say, I think or other directions can be discovered. And with regard to other proposals, I think that we should really be clear and really focus on the question to be decided. I think that there were quite a number of these in the debate, which were very good points, and it would be good if we could get information about this in the closing word. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-09-191	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs for two minutes.
u2015-06-09-192	I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr László Kiss, so perhaps I will shed some light on his problem by saying that the list of candidates is an MvM regulation, a ministerial decree, but what money will be spent on, so that from this list, which will be designated as a World Heritage Site, on which Hungary will be candition, will be a government decree. So, yes, the government wants to save a very significant amount of money here, and the fact that, in fact, this list of expectations now consists of only ten points, not one hundred points, or not two, is virtually all the same, because it has virtually no legal consequences. There is only one consequence that it will be extremely embarrassing to write the letter to UNESCO, that we apologize, that we would not want to put one or another on the list; that is why, let's say, I would not sign that letter. I don't know if the Secretary of State would sign it. And the other is that the Secretary of State has just found my suggestion so ridiculous that certain festivals are already taking place in Budapest's downtown location, let's say, under what scandalous circumstances in the Liberty Square, without you granting an exemption for crossing certain noise limits, under what scandalous conditions certain festivals are already taking place. I ask you very nicely, Mr Secretary of State, to be a partner in making a joint proposal for an amendment that, yes, any noise limit can be crossed without limit if the festival takes place in the Pancho Arena or Pancho Stadium, just opposite the House of Viktor Orbán, okay? Then any noise limit can be easily crossed there, and I will make a note of this amendment myself, and I would ask you to join him. Thank you very much. [[L. Simon László: God forbid! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-193	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-06-09-194	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your participation in the debate, and I would just like to respond to a few things. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Törő, who must go along with his speech as a keynote speaker, and thank my fellow Member, Mr Kiss, very much for his speech. His speech convinced me of two things. On the one hand, he convinced me that he had read the law, but more importantly, he understood the bill. In addition, my colleague László Kiss has the attention of the Member in his district behind his speech. Not so long ago - as I promised - we met personally and reviewed the situation of the Óbuda Shipyard Island, which is important because the Hadrian's Palace on the Shipyard Island in our Limes programme receives special attention from the government. Now, I promise you, as we have prepared the development plans, that at some point, if you have time and I have time, I will be happy to present to you the development plans that the government has not yet discussed, but it is worth looking at, because they are very beautiful. I think that there are only a few things worth responding to, because the debate simply seems like it wasn't about the bill, and we had fellow Members who simply didn't understand what was written in this bill. So I simply don't have the common basis for debate, so I don't want to respond to certain things. Congressman Kiss got it right. The aim is to create a management plan only for those sites that have a real chance of having a world heritage title in the future or at least reach UNESCO. Making a treatment plan is not easy. We spend a lot of money, a lot of public money on them, but in fact, the treatment plan only works for those that already have the title. That is why we had to distinguish between a world heritage site and a landmark location and distinguish between the ambition of a location and the reality supported by the government. So let's say, I think that limes, the borders of the Roman Empire, the Hungarian section of the Duna limes can be a very good cultural product, and we have a good chance of starting with UNESCO, and perhaps we will have a chance, since we have, in the best possible state, a very significant Roman monument - and I could now refer to the brigetio excavations led by Professor Borhy beyond the Hadrian Palace, where new values have emerged, to say, a world sensation from the last six months, when a Roman bill has come to the surface with a text in Latin, which has been unknown and unpublished, which has also moved the scientific opinion of the European or world on Roman times. So here are things with which we have a good chance of moving towards the international organization, which we can position in such a way that it is an area with a real world heritage title, either a coherent area, or even a larger area that attracts tourists and attracts audiences. [[22.20]] As, let us say, in many other parts of the world, the world heritage title is a tourist attraction, that is what we need to achieve, and that is the goal of attracting as many tourists as possible, and that is why what my fellow Member Kiss said is true, that the fact that he has a world heritage title alone does not guarantee that he is okay, otherwise he will be taken care of. The best example of this was the Várbazár, which was in a nasty condition, and as part of the view of Buda it still had a world heritage title, yet it took two decades to get it right. That is why I said it in the debate and made it clear that the world heritage title alone does not constitute immunity. The World Heritage Label is an address given by UNESCO. The protection is guaranteed by Hungarian rules on heritage conservation, ad absurdum It may also be that something will be a world heritage site without a monument, for example, natural value can be a value with a world heritage title, or, let's say, it may have a world heritage title in the sense that it is not a nature conservation area, so it does not enjoy natural protection. For example, when we think of the Tokaj cultural landscape, the Tokaj wine region, it is the cultural value of the whole which earned the world heritage title, so in the sense that protected natural value is not the attraction, as in the culture region of Fertő, where we talk about nature conservation, but everything that man has created through the cultivation of grapes in that wonderful area, is a place worthy of the present world heritage. To reassure Mr Kiss: yes, our intention is not to spend public money on something that is unnecessary, but rather to spend the money to develop our real chances of winning the World Heritage Label. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Which one of these is unnecessary? The president's ringing the bell.]] Congresswoman, let me finish. It's not a conversational genre for parliament! I didn't talk about it when you said your nonsense. It took a great deal of abstinence to listen to all the evidence that he simply did not understand the legislation before us. We are talking - to understand - that if, for example, tomorrow, the local government of a rural settlement says that they want their own beautiful environment to be protected by a world heritage title, then they will go out with a tender, they will find the government, and the rest, if there is no chance at all to reach UNESCO, do not spend public money to write a management plan completely unnecessary. So, thanks to God, it's about saving public money and using public money for other purposes, for other world heritage purposes. There is plenty of time to spend on the world heritage currently protected areas, because there are many places to develop [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: There are no stadiums in many places yet!]] We've got something to touch. Please note that it is not up to us to decide what will be given the World Heritage Label, so it is not up to us, it is up to UNESCO. Our will depends on what location we consider worthy of the announcement, which we think is a good chance to represent in the great competition that is, by the way, the struggle to win the World Heritage Label. With regard to the buffer zone, I can say, ladies and gentlemen, what I have just said about protection: the fact that there is a buffer zone in the world heritage area does not mean that the buildings in it are protected. It's very important to make that clear to ourselves. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Specifically, that's not true... the president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-06-09-195	Ms. Messenger, please...
u2015-06-09-196	Congresswoman, don't tell me it's not exactly true, because it's actually true, so let's not talk nonsense. There's a world heritage area, and we say, say, here on the Danube, that two streets still belong to the buffer zone. In that buffer zone, there are buildings that are protected and there are buildings that are not protected. I just explained to you - you just don't want to understand - that the world heritage title is an address, not immunity. Protection is included in Hungarian legislation on the protection of heritage. Whether you like it or not, whether you think it's true or not, that's true. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] So I'm sorry that you just can't understand that. So to be specific, there are historic buildings in the World Heritage Buffer Zone, there are empty plots, there are brand new buildings, so it doesn't have anything to do with it. The essence of the buffer zone is that the world heritage area, as its name includes, is in some way limited to areas that no longer have a world heritage title. However, we really need to strive to ensure that if there are protected buildings and monuments in the buffer zone, they will be treated as carefully as possible. By the way, all the monuments must be the same. But let us note quickly that the majority of monument buildings are not in the hands of the state, but in the hands of local governments, churches, private owners, and they have the same responsibility and duty to protect, care and renovate their own property. My fellow Member Ikotity mentioned the point where I was a little confused in my introduction, my expo, the 1995 LIII on the general rules for protecting the environment. amendment of law. Thank you for what my fellow Member Kiss said because he understood that it is pointless to bring all kinds of public health issues here. This is about addressing one particular problem, and before my fellow Members are very excited, my fellow Member Ikotity, especially what a terrible thing is happening here, I have to say to you that it has been supported by everyone from the Hungarian light music profession to the cette, from the punk musicians to the rock musicians, from the festival organizers to the alternative rock representative, to the members of the largest national rock bands. In fact, they asked us to have a change of legislation in this area, because we have a serious problem to face. It's not like we don't want to live up to the limit. The point is that if at an event - say, at a rock band's concert - the noise limits set by law are respected, then there is no other means to prevent the event from being held. This is why we have stated that it does not constitute an unjustified disturbance in possession or a threat to the unnecessary disturbance or exercise of rights of others, in particular neighbours, if it does not exceed the noise emission limit set out in the legislation or in the authorisation for an event or event of major importance for national economy, tourism, cultural or sports purposes. It's very clear. To give you a concrete example: if you're watching the press, you should know that it just happened at Millenáris in the first instance, where Millenáris was condemned by the court on the basis of the report of three individuals. Although the noise limit was respected at Millenáris at every event, they never crossed the threshold set by law in Hungarian, yet they were condemned by the court on the grounds that this was trespassing, because someone did not like that there was an event next door. [[Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: Specific limits will be set...]] It's not unique, it's for every event. What we are trying to do is not to destroy big events in Hungary with individual actions. Ladies and gentlemen, This is quite clear, so there is no such thing as an unrealistic increase in noise limits. It says that if it complies with the noise limit, if it does not exceed it, it cannot be otherwise impossible. It is not so difficult to understand, Madam honourable Member. Finally, let me say that Congresswoman mentioned the World Heritage Protection of the Munkácsy image. That would be a little extreme. We wouldn't stand a chance. However, let me inform you, honourable Member, that I have just announced in the press today that the Prime Minister's Office and the Forster Centre, acting as a backseat institution of the Prime Minister's Office, have launched a national defence procedure for the painting Golgota, which means that, even in the event of temporary immunity, the image cannot be removed from the country without the permission of the State. So, to understand: if a private owner has a protected artifact, it is his property, but without the permission of the State he cannot carry it abroad permanently, only for the purpose of exhibition, but also for that purpose he must have a public licence, every change of place must be reported to the State and, if he sells it, the State has the right to buy a pre-emption. [[22.30]] So in the case of the Munkácsy image, precisely because the seller and the potential buyer, the National Bank, could not agree with each other, we launched the defence procedure because we do not want a Russian person to buy it and take it from this country, and the Hungarian people could not see it again in Debrecen together with the other two pieces of the Munkácsy Trilogy. The state has this tool in its hands, it is a legitimate and good tool, and with this good tool we also live with. However, you cannot expect from us, representative, that if every market valuer values the image less than the seller asks for it, and it is in the legislation that an artifact can be purchased taking into account the bid of the three official valuers, then we should buy a picture at a price 50 percent higher than what official estimates say. That would be an unfaithful treatment, Madam honourable Member. So I can reassure you that the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to keep the Munkácsy image in Hungary and in the interests of Hungary. Finally, let me respond briefly to the suggestion of my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar. I think that the question he raises is an important question. At the same time, it has nothing to do with world heritage. [[Defiance.]] So that's another problem. I think that, if this problem is not addressed by the organisation responsible for transferring agricultural subsidies, then legal action must be taken here, honourable Member. That's what I can advise you to do. [[Zoltán Magyar: I did this.]] That's right, then. Because it's very clear - let's see. During the past period, which is now closed in the European Union, for the management of reeds, for the harvest of reeds - and here is the important term for farming, which, of course, includes, as in the field of land, if necessary, for a period of time - so SAPS, which is why area aid, can be applied. In fact, if I remember correctly, I'm not quite sure, as if the agri-environmental support had been involved. Otherwise, I fully understand the situation of the Member. As a living man on the shore of Lake Venice, I have repeatedly suggested that the area payment should not be accepted after those areas, where, by the way, the reed has not been harvested for many years. I could give you an example, so you are right, Congressman, this is an abuse of the aid system. So I suggest that if that's true, as you say... I don't know the specific problem, by the way, but now I'm curious, and I'm gonna look into it. The main reason why I will look into it is because I am also wondering if this support scheme will remain in the EU's future, whether area aid or additional aid, such as agri-environmental aid, can be used after reed management. If this remains and there is still no real reed farming, so speculation is happening on the rented state property with the state land, to give a parallel example if someone rents a reaper and doesn't make it for years, but still takes on the area payment, in this case, I believe that there is a specific infringement that needs to be dealt with. And, where appropriate, the reed should be given to another person who has a decent farm. Especially, in agreement with what he said, because we can even get into a strange situation, seeing the situation of Lake Venice, Lake Balaton and Lake Fertő, that, while we are a reed great power, we were, and in Hungarian folk architecture, the reed played a particularly important role in the use of roofing material, as a building material, that we will eventually be forced to import. That would be very unfavorable. I therefore agree with Mr President's judgment without knowing the specific matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate, and I hope that on some issues I have been able to resolve your concerns and convince you that this is a well-thought-out, well-prepared bill specifically for the protection of heritage, agreed with professional organisations and even with international organisations. I'm asking you to support it with your vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-09-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group: the way the meat factory in Kápuvár was executed is shameful and unacceptable.
u2015-06-09-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! It's not the first time I've spoken on this matter, I'm not bombing different ministries with the first written question. Because the process that has been going on in the Hungarian meat industry for 15 years now is simply not a coincidence. The way Zalaegerszeg, Gyula, Kaposvár, Kapuvár, or even Pope, is the result of a clearly visible and well-built operation. We have already seen this privatisation operation and this market acquisition operation in almost every segment of the food industry. From the sugar industry to the various processing units, we have seen that this process has taken place, the meat industry has perhaps been the only exception that has been waiting for us to join the European Union. However, as I mentioned, this process has also arrived here. As can be seen, for example, in the case of Kapuvár, and there is now a court ruling in this regard, it is simply not the unfortunate combination of coincidences that led to the closure of the plant, but, among other things, the NAV has launched lockdowns for which it would not have had the right or the proper suspicion that the NAV measures were based. The fact that the Kapuvar meat factory was previously run by businessmen linked to Balliberal circles is a well-known fact. If you were in the way because you were not professionally or humanly suitable partners, then there are countless ways for a government to remove them, especially by two thirds, so that this does not involve the closure of the plant, and it does not involve that countless former workers have not received their severance payments to date, and there are still debts to suppliers. So in this way, if it was a political reckoning, which I would like to admit in the light of such evidence, then I think it is very, very wrong. It is also incomprehensible to me that, while, in the case of other plants, Gyula and Papa, for example, let me highlight that the municipality or a local political force had an interest in continuing to operate, because it had such importance in place, created jobs, and it was a traditional plant, with brands, manufactured products that were also known throughout the country, and in many cases even abroad, so where there was such a will, they could certainly save these plants, or at least hold them on a ventilator for a while, but in any case they protected workers and the plant from closure. Unfortunately, this did not happen in the case of Kapuvar. The liquidation process has now been taking place since 2012. There is only one moment I cannot tell you where the liquidation commissioners would have made a vague appearance in their actions, in their thoughts, that this plant should be restarted or saved. Some of the interested parties who had been informed that it was even a factory that could be bought and resumed were completely consumed from the potential business. It was clear that the intention in you was to keep this plant from starting again. The big interest groups who are now clearly winners of the market processes after the destruction of the Hungarian meat industry, their buyers showed up and marked the equipment, machines that were one or two years old and met their technology, bought them for a fraction of the market price, the other equipment that they considered useless, and the plant were left on their necks for the Kaputians. It was also very interesting that Dr. Péter Zsobrák, for example, appeared, with a business background still unknown to this day, with serious capital, and he took over the plant in the first place from this balliberal circle. While we have not seen him before in the meat industry, and he is known to have a very good relationship with several fidesz oligarchs and meat characters. After they took over the plant, it practically stopped. In this way, the question arises as to what contracts were concluded, whether this was checked by the State, while declaring as a priority plant what maintenance and re-operation obligations the new owner had entered into. And if they didn't check it, then whose responsibility it is. [[22.40]] There is also the responsibility of the then Commissioner for Accountancy, Gyula Budai, later Secretary of State, who has repeatedly told my question in Parliament that there is no need to worry, the plant will be fine, the accountability will be done, and we will see a bright, well-run plant again. As you can see, and time has proven that nothing has happened either. It would be nice to get answers to these questions, not because of me, but because of the people of Kapuvar. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-09-199	Thank you, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity, Member of the European Parliament, Mr LMP:
u2015-06-09-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As one of my elderly family members once said, I would like to talk about the tax of fools, gambling, when I once accompanied this elderly family member to the post office, for he called this his passion for gambling. It's also interesting to talk about because the Gambling Company. I would like to briefly summarise and highlight a significant change in one of the most successful games that happened about twenty or a few years ago, and what changes this has brought to people's lives in general throughout Hungarian society. In 1957, the game called the 5th Lottery was launched, the first tickets, tickets were started in February, and the first draw took place in March. At that time, the winnings were evenly divided between the four winning classes, which means that the twos, the threes, the fours and the fives were divided by 25%. The significant change - I'm obviously skipping a lot of steps about what could be won and how the ticket changed - happened in 1991, even when a jackpot, a so-called total accumulation, was introduced during the 10th week of the game. This meant that if a draw does not have a full hit, the total share of the prize pool increases the prize pool of the winner of the next draw, i.e. it accumulates. By the way, the prize pool has also moved significantly compared to the 25 percent mentioned above: the five-hit 30 percent, the four 17 and the three 18 and the two 35 percent of the prize pool. What's the problem with that? I think that the total accumulation, the jackpot, I think it cannot be called moral, especially from a state company. In fact, the players in the game are not betting on each other to win the amount they add up, but on a company, in fact, the state, and it is much more impersonal. In addition to moralizing fundamental principles here, why this is problematic, I would like to draw attention to what is very often seen from week to week when this jackpot is growing very much, and that is that many, many people are taking part of their small income and, in their gambling addiction, they are playing a significant part of this amount, and it is often about people who are poor, people who are really under the influence of advertising, and they are doing this in the hope that their lives will change, and that is why they are taking their little money into this game. On the one hand, it is a cheating hope, and it is very bad that the state is putting it before people, all the more so, because if they were to win this amount, which is huge, so inaccessible, there are many billions in many cases, which are even a quantity that is physically difficult to move, even in terms of the largest denominations, the number of ordinary people is greater than that amount, and there are a lot of case studies, a lot of studies around the world that have shown that those who have such a significant change in their lives, not just for the better, but for the worse. For this reason, we also propose that the state, since it is a state-owned company, should review this unethical business policy, take into account its effects, its social effects, and consider reinventing a system where it does not accumulate, but every week the amount paid will be won among the winners; and if there are no five matches, other prize classes will win the same amount, because it is very important, and I did not say it at the beginning. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-09-201	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. I'm closing the meeting. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 10:46 p.m.]]
