u2015-05-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and colleagues. The 31st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dezső Believer will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title: "A country without consequences" You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-05-26-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the last few days, news has come that it is possible that the former second member of the MSZP, Gábor Simon, will get away with it, and can even walk home with a hundred million forints. However, the most notable is not the legal qualification in itself, because it is indeed the matter of independent justice, but that your home paper, the Daily Economy, said that the reason why Gábor Simon could get away with it is because he failed to find out the origin of the property. Compared to this, when the case snapped, the news was that the Austrian member organisation of the international anti-money laundering network had notified me. The question arises immediately: what is the problem with domestic regulation, as LMP found it problematic already in 2013 that only foreign seniors in Hungary have an obligation to examine the origin of the property by law enforcement agencies and authorities. One word, like a hundred: from now on, the origin of the property has not been found out in a long year, even though they have made the whole Simon case a campaign subject, now it is not just the cause of the socialists, it is the Fidesz that burns, and from now on the Simon case is the scandal of the Fidesz. Dear Parliament, I would also like to point out that, before this rather shameful news came to light, two days earlier, Fidesz-KDNP voted off the inclusion of the LMP proposal on the subject of the mandatory regular assetisation of politicians. If there were to be a regular compulsory propertyisation investigation against politicians, no one would dare say today that the origin of Gábor Simon's sudden increase in wealth has not been established. But there's actually nothing surprising about this story. Back in 2011, it was in vain that state money could not go to offshore companies, the biggest winners of the settlement bond business were offshore companies. You also voted against our proposal that monopoly state firms should not spend on marketing and ban shameful, humiliating government propaganda. In the allocation of EU funds, you are otherwise performing worse than the socialists. To date, EUR 412 million of aid has been suspended; the LMP has brought the Öveges scandal to light, as well as the reverse cases relating to the Roma municipality. Dear Parliament, The situation is that you campaigned with accountability in 2009-2010. Gyula Budai 206's case is subject to a single indictment; the Key Price case has been pending since 2003. There is the Dataplex case of Kóka; the traffic value of Dataplex suddenly increased, since they were given fat orders from János Kóka's wallet. What happened? There is an extended investigation on one side, and on the other side, the Fidesz government put a diplomatic passport in János Kóka's pocket. That's what your accountability was worth. In the matter of the government quarter, HUF 8, usque spent 12 billion on nothing, no charges are filed, the government's accounting website is missing the report. You said that you justified the recapitalisation of Lajos Simicska and his associates in the last term by wanting to support national large companies. Not that you have the right to appoint anyone as a big company, a big capitalist. At the same time, even before the 2010 change of government, Közpép flew in a bond with Strabag and Swietelsky, and the thing is that Strabag was also the winner of the change of government, as it could account for HUF 20 billion in revenue growth between 2010 and 12, while the Közpég also turned to the 2010 change of government with tens of billions of state orders. There is the Margit Bridge case, where public jet and Strabag also flew together, where - that they didn't - the costs doubled, and yet the verdik came out of the investigating authority that the crime couldn't be found. The question is, also, after a rather ludicrous interview on the Privatkopó last November about how Strabag's networks had previously rubbed against the MSZP-SZDSZ government and the Fidesz opposition, for some reason this case died in the press, they did not see it important to launch an investigation. And we can talk about the current cases, we can talk about the fact that there are no developments in the NAV and the traff cases. We can talk about how Lőrinc Mészáros's revenue in 2013 became five hundred and five times the result of the 2006 tax, how Lőrinc Mészáros became six hundred and forty-five times the result of the 2014 tax. But let's not make fun of each other. The fact is that Hungary seems to be a country without consequences where hands wash, and the changing, morning-afternoon elites are quite simply [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This country is robbing this country in a brazen way, and this country is ruining it, which is what the Hungarian people are poor in. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-05-26-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, As regards the subject of the speech before the agenda you have indicated, since you sent it to Parliament today, we were only able to inquire orally at the Central Detective's Attorney General's Office, and obviously the Central Detective's Attorney General's Office does not provide any information about the ongoing investigation. However, they could say that this was already made public that Gábor Simon is currently under investigation for fiscal fraud, which was extended by the Central Detective Attorney General's Office until 14 June. So the investigation hasn't been concluded, it's been a year and a half. The Investigator's Attorney General's Office has also stated that the case had to be dealt with internationally because of international or foreign ties, and this is a time-consuming activity, which is why the investigation is pending. What you said in general, going beyond the Simon Gábor case, I find it a little incomprehensible, since it is not clear that you have addressed what the government or the judiciary has to say. In Hungary, the judiciary is independent, the prosecution is independent, the courts are independent. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The police?]] If you find that, in cases between 2002 and 2010, the judiciary has not taken decisions quickly enough or insufficiently, it cannot be held accountable to the government. [[13.10]] I note that in a rule of law, justice cannot be called to account for the decisions it has taken. If I understand you correctly, you're asking the government why it doesn't affect the functioning of the justice system. This would be contrary to your statements so far, as you have accused the government of wanting to influence justice. Unfortunately, these cases show, unfortunately, that the justice system, thank you very much, independent [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where did you get the money?]] and the judiciary does not ask for proposals and expectations from government parties or opposition parties; justice is working as best it can. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where did this money come from?]] In cases where you have submitted a bill in which you have, of course, you know that these amendments have already been submitted after the crimes committed or suspected to have been committed or have been committed, so that they no longer have an impact on these proceedings. However, I would like to say that the government and the governing parties are interested in accountability. We believe that both the suspicious cases between 2002 and 2010 or even the current criminal proceedings are being closely monitored by the political authorities, and that the parties of government are also closely monitoring. We expect justice to be impartial, independent and effective. Of course, we are not satisfied with the procedures of the judicial system so far, but this may not be the fault of the judicial system. The investigative tools available to the judiciary, the legal instruments, are limited in a constitutional rule of law, and they, according to the rules of the constitutional rule of law, try to find only the reality with adequate counterpointing, counterbalance and counterbalance on the defence side; therefore, the investigation is not an inquisition, where the suspect has no right to defend himself. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The origin of the money should be found.]] For example, according to some urban legends, in the specific case you mentioned, the suspect is defending himself by not testifying, by not telling the investigating authority where this money was from parked abroad. If the investigating authority can't find out about this, then it really won't be able to produce the results that many expect. However, this is a rule of law procedure and this rule of law procedure is respected by the Government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. János Latorcai, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Vice-President, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-05-26-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, the Christian world has celebrated Pentecost, the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. On the 50th day after the resurrection of Jesus Christ, the apostles were filled by the Holy Spirit and began preaching the gospel in various languages, addressing all the peoples of the world. That's the calling word we heard during our King St. Stephen's. During the 1100 years since then, many have forgotten their Christian roots, but those who once left, as Father Csaba Böjte so beautifully put it, in one of the most beautiful shrines of the Carpathian Basin, in the saddle of Szisomlyo, and have put faith in their Hungarians, their Christianity, and their commitment to each other, certainly understood the true message of the holiday. This has given the Hungarians the strength and hope for centuries. In 1567, when the Transylvanian prince János Zsigmond wanted to force the people of the pure Catholic Csík, Gyergyó and Kaszon to embrace the unitarian religion, the Szekler armies gathered at Csíksomlyon dedicated themselves to the grace of God, and, begging for the help of the Virgin Mary, they went to battle on the Sabbath of Pentecost and won a bright victory. The winners made a vow to commemorate this historic event, that each year on the Sabbath of Pentecost they would go to Csíksomlyo. This ancient tradition is preserved and continues to this day by hundreds of thousands of people of the Szeklers and Hungarian pilgrims. Over the past centuries, for the Hungarians of the world, the Szíksomlyo shrine has become one of the most important centers of the message of faith and survival, protector and perpetrator of all that determines national self-consciousness. A place where everyone can be renewed in their faith, national consciousness, bond of belonging. It is the duality of tradition and renewal that gives us the power of Csíksomlyó. This year we celebrate the 500-year-old statue of the Virgin Mary, and now she is consecrated at Pentecost in the church of St. Augustine. At the center of the wonderful work, the crucified, ruthlessly tortured Christ-body displays the torments of the broken, bordered Hungarians, while at the top of the composition the Holy Spirit, appearing in the form of a dove, tells us that he will not let Hungarians perish if we have strong faith and will, if we have will to do and join together, as the power of the rosary joining each verse radiates. Together with the creators and supporters, I believe that at the Holy Mass of Pentecost on Sunday, the works consecrated in St. Augustine's church will become the pilgrimage place of our national prayer. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, problems that appear to be often unsolvable in the world have accumulated, a value crisis and a moral crisis dominate our day. The horrors of war, the migratory pressure on Europe, seem to be an unsolvable problem. We can take action against this by holding hands with each other and not letting it go if we think in a nation and in a family, and admit to ourselves the idea that a few years ago was formulated in the sermon of a speaker of the Mass in Szisomlyo:, Pentecost says that our people, too, are chosen people, that we have a place under the sun. I believe it was the Holy Spirit. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary Miklós Soltész will respond on behalf of the government.
u2015-05-26-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Thank you very much for your personal participation in all those who have been able to pilgrimage to Csíksomlyo, and thank you to those hundreds of thousands of Hungarian brothers from various parts of Transcarpathia and from all parts of the world, from Moldavia to the csangs who have set foot in Csíksomlyo. It was uplifting for those who could be there, and I think it was uplifting for all those who could see this beautiful holiday from the reports. The main message of this year's Színsomlyo farewell was delivered by Archbishop György Yakubinyi, which was the preservation and loyalty of faith, homeland, nation, mother tongue. He asked for it, called for it, and urged the people who were there, Szeklers, csángos, Hungarians from anywhere in the world who were there. I think it is worthy to thank the Franciscan Fathers for the dignified execution of the hundreds of thousands of people being moved and helped in Csíksomlyó. They did a great deal of work in preparation, as the Trinity altar was renewed, the helmet tower of the church was renewed, they continued the renovations in the coming years, but hundreds of thousands of people were so worthy to conduct such a celebration, I think it is unique many times, in many places. [[13.20]] It is no coincidence that most reports in Romania presented the present farewell either in an objective or positive way. There was one, and here I would like to quote Pro TV's correspondent:. Megjegyző pilgrimage in Csíksomlyó. It's true that they write 150,000 people, but I don't think it's worth arguing with. He reports about the event without any intrusion or single raised voice, recognizing that this festival took place in such a culturally and in such a communal manner. And those who were there, who could see the report, could also experience the presence of searchers, those who go there because of the unity of the nation - that is also important - some who seek faith, and of course there are believers. Again, in this regard, it must be said that this place is a national place, because although it is a Catholic pilgrimage, a Catholic holiday, there are Protestant brothers, Reformates, Evangelists, and many of the unitarian brothers, which even more shows the Transylvanian and Szeklerian cooperation of recent years. And I think that to the important message that Archbishop György Yakubinyi highlighted, we must add to our public message: whether in Transylvania or in Szeklerland or in Partium or in the Carpathian Basin, the possibility of remaining depends on many things. It goes beyond the will of the people there, the will of the governments there, and, of course, depends on the Hungarian government's willingness to help. Last week, the Hungarian government decided to further increase the support of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin through the churches, through educational and educational institutions, or even to help establish a family. In conclusion, let me highlight a very important message, which may not have been the headset of the Hungarian media, although it was very important here in Hungary or in Greece. There has been a meeting involving a federal union of European nationalities. Ninety nationalities are included in this Federation, and many important messages have been expressed at both conferences and at the two meetings. One of them was what we ourselves claim to be that the state should not talk to minorities, but to minorities. Another important message, which I think is most important for the leaders of neighbouring countries: note the message that the 90 members, indigenous minority, have expressed and accepted to follow the best practices of cultural and territorial autonomy in Europe, such as the Swedish-speaking community in Finland, the examples of South Tyrol in Italy and the German-Danish border area and further positive solutions. If this could be a message from the side of peace and from the side of nationalism, then it was also important this year. Thank you very much for the suggestion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-8	Thank you very much. Member István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:, Do we see a substantial change in health? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A few days after the health protest, the 2016 budget was submitted. This health chapter should answer all the questions raised in connection with the demonstrations; the unworthy state in which the Hungarian health system is situated. However, the 2016 budget does not answer these questions, and the patient suffers not only from certain areas of health care, from ambulances to general practitioners. The patient who suffers from being nursed by an overworked and underpaid nurse. It's humiliating to see the workers who keep the signs at their selfies on the biggest social portal with the salary they're getting, with that undeservingly low salary. And the patient is also affected by the fact that you want to legitimize the gratuity money, I'm guessing, in terms of wage claims. Because it will be the patient who will not only have the opportunity, but will have almost the duty to give thanks, not for healing, but also to get the chance to do so at all. And, of course, it will be the patient who will be plagued by the exodus of doctors and workers. Minister of State Czomba has made a very feeble attempt these days to prove that the government is fighting effectively against migration, attracting young people home, and then, after throwing the number of 40,000, he was forced to realize the reality: a fraction of this number was the one who was even interested in coming home. And the patient is also affected by a huge set of hospital debts, as hospitals are in a position to now lack basic medical tools and medicines, and you are trying to bring out the mathematical solution of paying 90 out of 60 billion and remaining 30; which is not going to work, my fellow Members, my fellow members of the Government. And the patient is also affected by the fact that today everyone in Hungary is healing where they are born. If there is no chance of being close to good GP care, a high-quality and high-quality hospital, it will certainly be his problem, and he will try to heal or heal without a chance. And, of course, it's the patient who will be hit by waiting lists that will grow again. After a moment's pause, which you have been very successful in communicating, the waiting lists are growing. I know you're looking at me inquisitively, Mr. Secretary, but you can look into it, these are the data you're going to have to look for and see that these waiting lists are not just large surgeries that you're going to have to wait for years, but sometimes very simple diagnostic procedures that you're going to have to wait months to find out if you're sick at all. Ladies and gentlemen, GPs who meet the patient for the first time have just received an empty set of proposals for a bill, the most interesting element of which is whether the person who attends non-binding screening tests can advance the waiting list. And if you can't, because you don't have the money, the means of transport, the means at all, will you wait forever? Ladies and gentlemen, The purely health part of the budget submitted shows a fall to 1660 billion compared to 1704 billion so far. Drop! Hospitals get $45 billion less, and Minister Varga, not denying this fact, said that this is what we have now for health care, that is what we need to be satisfied with. You said in your programme promised and published at the beginning of the year that the Hungarian health budget will be increased in proportion to GDP. You are vitiating a GDP rise next year, and health money is falling. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the Health Government, you are not keeping what you have promised. Not only is this money growing, but it is decreasing, and the paramedics are suffering from it, there is no way to discover where the cost of oncological tests you have thrown in as a mosaic is, and so on. This budget should combine your mosaicd ideas as some kind of cement and show a picture of Hungarian health care. This picture is devastating! We therefore believe that, as a national matter, we are launching a debate day on health care, in which we will have a chance to change the government's vision of this very important area. Thank you very much for the opportunity, Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2015-05-26-10	Thank you, Congressman. I would ask my fellow Members not to turn their backs on the camera. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-05-26-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps Mr President should have spoken much more combatantly when we were talking about hospital privatisation here in Parliament, let us say. Or should have been when their former coalition partner tried to solve health problems by installing hospital safes. It might have been worth mentioning the dignity and appreciation of healthcare workers when the Hungarian Socialist Party took away their 13th month allowance, but even more so when all the socialists here and all the members of the SZDSZ who were still here said yes to the visitation fee and hospital daily allowance. [[13.30]] Because these are real, taken measures from your era, which show just the opposite of what you were talking about. Maybe I'm not the only one questioning your credibility and your party's credibility when we see that when you're in opposition, you can promise nice things, but when you're on the government, somehow you're doing the opposite in the field of health. They say things here in Parliament, they talk about things about the government that are not real, and in many cases the facts that are contrary to it are real. To tell you just one thing, for example, spending on health care systems in 2010 amounted to HUF 750 billion. In next year's budget, which you have read, this 750 billion will grow to HUF 982 billion, to nearly HUF 1000 billion. And I can tell you a lot of other items in the next year's budget, as well as only the area of medical, protective or preventive care, where there is an increase of 30 billion, which has additional resources in the next year's budget. But if I look at this year's budget compared to last year, it's also a six-percent increase in resources in the health sector. And what you said about gratuity money, you know, that's what a social consultation took place on an external proposal, where the government found that it was rejecting this proposal, because it does not intend to make any amendments to the legislation on gratuity money. That was the government's position, not what you said earlier. But if you are looking for new approaches, new results and see what the government has done to protect non-smokers, it was this government that was able to act effectively and greatly reduce smoking, whether in various enclosed places or in the circulation of tobacco products. Therefore, young people are now less dangerous than they were five years ago. Either in terms of reducing the consumption of harmful foods, the public health product tax is either popularly called a chip tax, or the reform of the regulation against trans fatty acid, or the regulation of public catering, which gives more healthy food to children, preventive measures outside a narrowly-based health area, and even approach-forming or lifestyle improvement measures. It is very important that over the last five years, 95 000 health workers have also managed to improve their wage situation. Although these are only first steps, we do not want to see them closed, but what we knew, exactly as you said, that GDP has finally started to climb up, after the economic downturn of the MSZP-SZDSZ period, the economy has finally started to grow again, so there was an extra HUF 76 billion that we could give to health care workers, so we gave them an average wage increase of 23-24 percent. But it was also important to slow down the exodus of doctors. After all, what accelerated during the socialist period slowed down during the Fidesz-KDNP administration, since the emigration of doctors has decreased since 2012. This was an important part of the government's efforts to steer this in a positive direction, with 2,500 young people now participating in the residency programme and receiving an additional scholarship. You know very well that there has never been a sum of HUF 60 billion to consolidate hospital debt. This has been a debt piled in front of hospitals for many years. In these weeks, negotiations will be concluded and agreements will be finalised on how hospitals will be freed from these debts. In the financing of the basic supply, you know that the government has provided the general practitioners with 10 billion HUF extra resources already twice. As far as the waiting list reduction programme is concerned, I was curious, and I looked up when Congressman said so, as he knows very well, at the beginning of last year it was an additional HUF 1.5 billion source, in the middle of last year, in the summer it was an extra HUF 1 billion and in December and January there was an additional HUF 6.5 billion to reduce waiting lists. This reduces the number of waiting lists by about 18 to 20,000. Last January's measure also reduced the length of the waiting lists by 3,000 people, and since then only another such measures have come. So I can say, honourable Member, that the government has continued to provide all the resources it has had in the area of health. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, leader of Jobbik's group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: a historical chance to redefine European integration. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-05-26-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Both in Europe and in Hungary, there has been a big storm, big debates, whether it is immigration or the death penalty, and I think it is right that this has happened. Those who oppose a debate on immigration, I ask you not only to look at the current situation in Hungary, it is also alarming, however, but also the underlying trend where this whole process is going, because it is terrifying in itself. I think that anyone who does not see this trend is either blind or naive or stupid, or simply does not address this issue in sufficient depth. Perhaps I could advise them, in some pedagogical way, to ask for a reception station next to their house and then study the sociology of immigration from a close range. As regards the death penalty, I ask the representatives of Fidesz to give in to the Prime Minister's request. We have a parliamentary debate day initiative on the death penalty, which you still have not signed, even though the Prime Minister himself wanted a debate on this. We have thus created this possibility, so I would like to ask that this debate be conducted here in Parliament within a cultural framework. It is therefore important that these debates take place either on the death penalty or on immigration. The situation is better than in the previous cycle when, for example, we have hung an axis with the European Union on the issue of media law or the Fundamental Law. These are more important questions, people are more interested. But at the same time, I must say that these are not the issues in which we should really confront the European Union. This is not Hungary's real or most serious problem, but rather the economic crisis behind emigration and emigration, the destruction of the Hungarian economy. In this connection, we should initiate a debate with the European Union. Of course, the macroeconomic indicators may be good, and I do not want to debate this, but we should also take into account the fact that the macroeconomic indicators for the Hungarian people do not appear as for you, but at microlevel. And at microlevel, they find that the Hungarian economy cannot provide them with a vision that they or their loved ones have to leave their country because they cannot live in this country. This reality, the destruction of the Hungarian economy, is the reality of the last 25 years. Our accession to the EU, our membership of the EU, has played a major role in the past 25 years and in this destruction. Let us say this, and let us face it; let us not be afraid of this debate. After all, when you think about it, foreign capital came to Hungary in many cases because it needed this market, shut down, destroyed and bought Hungarian competitors, its competitors, so that it could invade the Hungarian market with its own products. Or the other reason why foreign capital came here was the spell of cheap labor. But either way, whether it is the intention of acquiring the market or the spell of cheap labour, both things point in the same direction, namely the destruction of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian national economy. Our factories, factories and economies have been destroyed, and here we are now talking about over half a million people fleeing Hungary. And once again, how we joined the EU and how we joined the EU has played a role in this. What's that got to do with anything? Why am I telling you this, anyway, not for the first time in this Parliament? That's because I feel like we've been given a historic opportunity. David Cameron, the leader of one of the largest Member States in the European Union, announced just a few days ago that he would initiate an amendment to the Accession Treaty. The British already have 30 points on what their own idea of this is. I think this gate has opened, it is not such a small gate, we must also enter this gate, we should not be alarmed by this debate, and we must also ask for our opportunity to amend the Treaty of Accession at certain points. This is what we should discuss first, first, between ourselves and then with the European Union. Because this is the crucial question of how we can change our membership of the European Union by changing the Treaty of Accession. I think that whatever unorthodox economic policy, there may be any macro numbers, the Hungarian economy will not recover until the Hungarian food industry, the Hungarian manufacturing industry, is restored. That's the key question. Let me give you a few phrases that I think will be important for the future: food self-determination and market protection. I recommend these terms to your attention, because I think that is what we need, that is what we should demand in the arenas of the European Union, so that Hungary can produce at least what it is capable of so that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, can protect its own market from competition in foreign capital and foreign products. This is where we should open a front with the European Union, and not primarily with regard to immigration or the death penalty. So I'm asking you to memorize the term "food self-determination," because I'm saying it now, and you may still be smiling or having doubts about it. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: You've heard it from us for years.]] But it's gonna be a few years, and you're gonna tell me, and then I'm gonna smile when you've seen the dynamic of Jobbik saying something for years, and then the Fidesz government is gonna start saying it a few years or a few months later. So, please, let us continue the debate on the amendment of the Treaty of Accession, because this is the crucial issue for Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Levente Magyar will respond to what has been said. [[13.40]]
u2015-05-26-15	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech, because in that you have highlighted a number of issues that have indeed been at the heart of the interest of Hungarian society in the last few weeks and will certainly be at the heart of the coming weeks and months. First and foremost, the issue of immigration, which has emerged as an acute problem throughout Europe in recent years, is a matter on which we need to find a common European solution, while also taking into account the specific situation of the Member States. This is particularly a cardinal issue for Hungary, because we are hit by immigration, livelihood and economic immigration on a multiple scale than the EU average. At our southern borders, migratory pressure has risen to unprecedented historical heights in recent months. Every month, there is almost an exponential increase in the number of asylum seekers entering Hungary at the Hungarian-Serbian border. Hungary has to place these thousands, place them in decent conditions, take care of them, and at the moment cannot turn them back from the border under European legislation. Here, of course, we must make a very important distinction, in the sense that the person who arrives to Hungary as a political refugee, whose life, existence, is in real danger because of war conflicts, persecution, Hungary, as has been before, continues to wait with open arms in accordance with international conventions and to ensure that there is security in our country. At the same time, against the tens of thousands who enter Hungary in the hope of a better life, we must be able to find a solution that guarantees that Hungary's budget, Hungarian society, will not be threatened by an expense greater than its ability to carry a load in this respect. The current European legislation is not suitable for guaranteeing these requirements, which is why we have initiated Europe's return to its strategy, and partly due to the problems of multiculturalism, the failure of multiculturalism in certain aspects, the recognition by the Hungarian government that the current European migration and immigration policy is practically a dead end, we demand that it be rethinked and, of course, Hungary takes a leading role in this. What the Member said about our membership of the European Union and about the revision of the membership terms and the membership agreement may no longer be debated - as I have taken out of his words, Mr President - about Hungary's place in the European Union. Our entire history has predestined us. The world outside the European Union is currently a region of unpredictable, fragile, vulnerable and exposed to all kinds of geopolitical matches in Europe. Hungary does not wish to belong in this line. So the debate, I think, is that Hungary's economic, social and welfare guarantee can be the European Union alone, and this may no longer be the subject of discussion between us. At the same time, honourable Member, our membership of the European Union only sets the limits of our room for manoeuvre, so the Hungarian interests and the need to improve Hungarian life naturally continue, and we will do everything we can to ensure that these interests are properly supported and enforced within the defined framework. Mr President, what you said about food security, the Government fully agrees that the Hungarian food industry needs to be rebuilt, and the preparations have been taken, and we are also exploring the segment of the world's markets that we have not dealt with in the last 25 years. This applies primarily to large markets in the east, where there is a demand for food that Hungary could not satisfy even if it produced at every square inch. So there is a virtually infinite food market in the world, which if we can successfully identify and successfully conclude long-term contracts, it can lead to a rise in Hungarian food exports to multiples in the coming years. Honourable Congressman, Food self-determination is not only an economic, revenue issue, but also a vital national security issue. What we see in the world is that there is less food, more and more water resources. In both respects, Hungary is among the world's leading countries, both its water reserves and its food industry characteristics and soils. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In terms of quality, I think this is an important direction for Hungary in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is the European Union able to afford party funding in a Member State? Mr Gergely Gulyás, representative of Fidesz, also spoke before the agenda. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2015-05-26-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I was simply impressed by the professionalism with which the police did their job and protected me, a decent tax-paying citizen. It was in my mind that Ferenc Gyurcsány expressed his appreciation for the police action of 23 October 2006, in which the police under government orders, since the change of regime, have not experienced violence, without identification numbers, using unscheduled weapons, with reference to a few hundred truly violent protestors, beating up law-abiding citizens who exercise their constitutional fundamental rights. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! That's not true. A voice from the benches of Jobbik: Guard! The president's ringing the bell.]] Shooting out their eyes and causing many unworkable traumas to this day. The series of violent actions quoting dictatorship was the culmination of governance [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes several times. There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] which has indebted and bankrupted the country, with which Ferenc Gyurcsány has since left his party, which he has repelled into the Middle Party status, both morally and financially, permanently. Hungary has been part of the West for a thousand years, and that is not only why we set a common goal of joining the European Community, but also because we share Europe's traditional values, and also so that an extreme policy such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, which ignores human rights, can no longer be enforced in Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You will! Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] This hope did not come true, but we did not expect that nine years after the violence committed by the police of the Gyurcsány government and seven years after the bankruptcy of the state by the Gyurcsány government, when it was only thanks to the credit given by the European Union that pensions and civil servants' wages could be paid, the European Commission intends to conclude a contract with Altus Zrt., a 100 percent owned by Ferenc Gyurcsány, for an amount of HUF 1.5 billion, to examine the use of EU development funds in Hungary. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches: Shame! Shame!]] It is also alarming that the European Commission, in any Member State, enters into a contract with a company wholly owned by the President of any party, and it is absolutely nonsense that this should be the subject of monitoring developments based on state decisions everywhere. And it is tragically tragic to do so with a company that is owned by the president of a small far-left party, who ignores human rights under its governance, which is causing economic bankruptcy. [[László Varju: Expert!]] In addition to state party support, the Democratic Coalition receives a donation from Ferenc Gyurcsány. This amount exceeded HUF 16 million last year. We also know from the former Prime Minister's declaration that apart from the annual dividend income of HUF 100 million from Altus Zrt., who wants to sign with the European Commission, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Less!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány has not had any income in recent years from which the payment could have been made. From this it is clear and clear that tens and hundreds of millions of people from conflicting and irresponsible treaties with the European Commission can go straight to the Democratic Coalition's party box. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. László Varju intervenes. György Balla: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the specific case, we are not just talking about a political and party financing scandal, we are talking about the letter of legislation, its spirit, and equal opportunities between parties. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes several times.]] The Parliament must do everything it can to prevent such a situation from arising. The Union institutions exercise the delegated powers together with us, as stated in the current constitutional text adopted by all of us before accession to the EU. Can a party, directly owned by a party president, receive a billion-dollar payment from EU institutions in order to exercise part of the powers of its own State in conjunction with the Union? [[13.50]] It is difficult to answer whether the inability is greater or the conflict of interest in the specific case. In recent years, my fellow Members have done a great deal to put the Hungarian government and the country out of business in the European Union. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] In this, the Democratic Coalition and the Congresswoman, who can't control herself, have taken the lead in particular. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] I would like to ask everyone to do everything we can to ensure that the European Union does not abuse itself by getting involved in a party financing issue that is prohibited in Hungary in connection with the Democratic Coalition. Thank you for your attention. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the independent.]]
u2015-05-26-18	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the accounting?]] On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The Retirement answers, I'm going crazy! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, please be more patient, if I may. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-26-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, Indeed, Hungary has few less popular politicians than Ferenc Gyurcsány, and few people have a lower confidence index in Hungary than Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You could compete with Orbán!]] If the European Union entrusts it with examining the regularity of the various grants, the confidence index of the European Union as a whole is drawn down by the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány will be able to review the regularity of EU funds and control the regular procedures here. I think there are few families in Hungary today, who would entrust the control of their own family cash register to Ferenc Gyurcsány, few would invite him in to give advice on how to manage well, because his own prime minister and party chairmanship proved the opposite, that he could be expected in any way in economic or regular farming. What results can Ferenc Gyurcsány have behind him - of course, by quoting in a quotation mark the word. It is a Prime Minister who has been replaced by his own party from the party presidency and has been replaced from the Prime Minister's office. He may have formally resigned himself, but he ruled himself and his party in a political position in which he had no choice but to leave the position of party president and prime minister. But this exit from the party's presidency brought a long agony to itself within the Hungarian Socialist Party, and finally it came to so many results that it ripped a part of the Socialist Party, ripping the MSZP in half for a long time. It is clear, then, that he did not spare even his own party when we look at the disadvantages of his activities. [[László Varju intervenes.]] You have sold the country; you know to what extent the country's debt has increased compared to GDP during the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Hungary's debt to him was much greater than it was after. It also shows that he may have a different way of dealing with finances, but less with public finances. And what's even more talkative is that he's indebted to his party so much, his own MSZP, that it's also about to sell his property, and he had to get rid of a good part of his employees. GDP has fallen by 7 per cent, so unemployment [[László Varju intervenes.]] It's up by a quarter of a million. These were seen by the Prime Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the results of his management in quotes. We can certainly suggest to the leaders of the European Union, the European Commission, that they do not meet Ferenc Gyurcsány at which time of the day. It's not worth asking your opinion in the morning, in the night and in the evening, because you can't tell the truth in your own statement. We don't know if the meeting was planned at other times of the day or during this period. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] but to leave to the man to investigate irregularities, to the man to guard the orderly spending of EU funds, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and László Varju are constantly interfering. The president's ringing the bell. István Apáti: Guard!]] He admitted himself that he could not even speak the truth to the Hungarian public or to Brussels, and I think that it is a huge mistake and that he needs a very rapid self-correction by the leaders of the European Union. In the past, it was not typical for former party presidents to be entrusted with this kind of control over public funds by outsourcing to an external company. The European Union is very proud of the system of brakes and balances. He has often called for the enforcement of this system in Hungary over the last five years and for its legal force in relation to constitutionalisation. That is why it would be good for the European Union to take this into account, not a fallen party president, a former MSZP president, current DK President [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Slip up, Butcher Lawrence...!]] The President of a party with independent Members in Parliament would be asked to examine regularity and impartiality. It's hard to expect impartiality from a party leader. We do not ask Ferenc Gyurcsány to be impartial, feel free to be partying, to represent the interests of the Democratic Coalition, but they do not coincide with the values of the European Union or with the values of Hungary. If they were to coincide, the Hungarian voters might have voted more on it. But it is certainly not good that it is a party person who is called by the Union to control the resources in Brussels. It would be important for us to ensure that the payment of the EU's euros is as transparent as the payment of the budget forints. Therefore, what my fellow Member has said here in his speech is that the euros, or millions of euros or larger euros, that come to Ferenc Gyurcsány's company, may eventually land in parties as forints. It would be good to see clearly and clearly the way in which these amounts are made. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] but it would be best for the Union to review its decision and not entrust it to Ferenc Gyurcsány's company. Thank you very much. [[László Varju: Go, Péter Polt! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-05-26-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Márta Demeter, MSZP; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ikotity, István, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Zoltán Kész, independent. On Wednesday, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; József Tóbias, MSZP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. On Thursday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. He applied for a speech after the agenda on Friday: Márta Demeter, MSZP.No one applied for a speech after the agenda on Saturday.
u2015-05-26-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame on a proposal from the House Committee. On this basis, the House Committee initiates the T/4730 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to inform you that the resolution house rule is 37. In accordance with paragraphs 3 (a) to 4 of the Act, there is no possibility of doubling the timeframes for this bill. Dear Parliament, Now it's time to make a decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 in a 30-hour timeframe. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted a 30-hour time-frame hearing of the bill with 110 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, There was no consensus at last week's meeting of the House Committee, so the president initiated the T/4884 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a five-hour time frame. [[14.00]] The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. So now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the proposal within a five-hour time frame. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal with 110 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 1 abstention in a five-hour time frame. Dear Parliament, There was also no consensus at last week's meeting of the House Committee, so the president initiated the T/4741 amendment of certain laws relating to taxation. The Parliament shall discuss a proposal with a serial number in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. So now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the proposal within a five-hour time frame. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal with 113 votes in favour, 52 votes against and no abstentions in a five-hour time frame. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on proposals for derogations from house rules. The House Committee initiates the Parliament to depart from the House Rules on 8 June 2015 so that on behalf of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, the Ukrainian ethnic spokesperson Hartyányi Yaroslava may speak for a maximum period of five minutes on the occasion of the 4th of June, one year anniversary of the establishment of the provocative institution and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, before deciding on the agenda proposal, so that no further comments can be made. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/4892. You can also see it on the website by serial number. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 162 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rule, initiates the National Assembly to act as a member of the XXVII of 1998 on genetic engineering activities. T/4818. When negotiating a proposal with a serial number, it should depart from the rules so that the final vote can take place on Wednesday. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by T/4818/2. can be found on the website by serial number. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 161 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate will take place today as the last item on the agenda, the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. The deadline for submitting amendments is 15:00 today. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken tomorrow at 11.15 a.m. at the earliest. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The government initiated the Parliament to discuss in exceptional proceedings the T/4900 on the amendment of the laws relating to advertising tax. a proposal with a serial number. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate will take place tomorrow as the first item on the agenda, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/4900 is accepted. the examination of a proposal with a serial number in an exceptional procedure according to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 113 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted until the third hour after the decision, i.e. 17 hours and 8 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will also take place tomorrow as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/4813 on the publication of an administrative and technical implementing agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of the consequences of road traffic safety offences and in this context amending certain laws The general discussion of the legislative proposal with a serial number shall take place on Wednesday as the second-to-last item. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/4857 amending certain laws necessary for the implementation of the e-card and Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies The general debate on the legislative proposal No. 1 shall take place on Wednesday as the last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/4901. in order number: Kara Ákos, Fidesz, elected the Fidesz representative of Gábor Bányai to the Committee on Enterprise Development. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mr Gábor Bányai as Vice-President of the Committee with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and two abstentions. We wish you good strength and good health for your work. Dear Parliament, We are now moving to interpellation negotiations for 120 minutes. The time is 14 hours and 12 minutes. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Whoever lies is cheating, the liar is stealing. Or how many times do social workers get fooled by raising their wages? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-05-26-23	Mr President, Dear House, On 26 November 2014, Minister of State Bence Rétvári said that the government remains committed to introducing a social career. At every meeting and meeting we held with representatives of the staff in the field, we acknowledged that the wage situation of the staff had to be resolved. In the social sphere there are about 93,000 people working, 73,000 in professional and 20,000 in technical jobs. This includes people working in social institutions, such as nursing homes for the elderly, people with disabilities, caregivers in kindergartens, those employed in child protection. On the proposal of the Minister of Human Resources, the government already provided HUF 12 billion in 2014 for the introduction of the sectoral wage supplement, which is guaranteed in 2015. This amount would also be included in future wage increases. The wage increase for workers in the social sector could continue in the second half of 2015 following the preparation of the medium-term development concept for the sector. Repeating the Prime Minister's words, next year we will create a social sector career system in agreement with those working in the sector. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On 23 December 2014, Mr Secretary of State said: "These people really deserve more, the government is moving gradually. We hope that Hungary's growing economic performance will also provide us with a greater opportunity for the work of people caring for other people on Christmas Day, for their appreciation and for next year's wage increases. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On 11 March 2015, Károly Czibere declared to Kossuth Radio: "The government is committed to financially and morally appreciate the very hard work that workers in the social sector are doing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, It was necessary to quote these sentences from you for a long time because it is important to explain what you said while doing nothing. You tricked social workers. These days, submitted in 2016, there is no sign of a wage increase for social workers in the next year's budget, not even something called a career model. But not only did they lie about this in their earlier speeches; they also lied about the fact that this summer the employees in the sector will receive a surplus of HUF 15 billion. For all these reasons, Mr. Secretary, how many times have social workers been fooled by raising their wages? When will there be a real wage increase in the social sphere? The extra wage isn't a wage increase, Mr. Secretary. When will the labour law and wage levels of professionals working in the field of social and child protection finally improve? Please, Mr. Secretary, don't repeat yourself, I've already done that. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-26-24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-26-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, it is a rare situation to respond to your own words. But I would be very happy to do so, because I can tell you something new, as well, but before we talk about words and words before I answer that, we cannot go without saying anything about credibility, because we hear these demands from a Socialist Party, if you like, we hear these accusations. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes. Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] which is the Socialist Party, when it was on the government, not only did it move in this direction, but it is the only party since the change of regime, who has reduced the earnings of those working in the social sphere. After all, by taking your 13th month's wages, you have reduced your average annual income of every social worker by HUF 150,000. If you calculate this, Congresswoman, by multiplying it by the number of 95 thousand people working in the social sphere, you will see that a sum of 10 billion has been pulled out of these people's pockets since 2008-2009, and there has not been a single government since the change of regime that would have done this, which would have taken money from those working in the social sphere. [[Lajos Korózs: Last time we raised wages!]] There were many who tried to preserve the value of social wages. There were some who managed to lift it. I thought it was a little weird to hear you say that the sectoral wage supplement is not a wage increase. Indeed, the sectoral pay gap is an extra income for workers in the social sphere, it can indeed be extended and larger, but it has been some kind of progress. But it cannot be compared with the social policy that has reduced the wages of these people since the change of regime in 2008-2009. So much for the question of credibility. In recent years, we have tried to improve the situation of workers in the social sphere from a number of different directions, because the work they do is superhuman, they have a huge burden, it is physically very stressful and obviously very hard to work in this sphere, and it really requires a sense of vocation in order for someone, even a person with qualifications, to remain here. And we know that these wages are very low compared to the work these people do, so we thought that their request for wage development was fair. On the one hand, obviously, those who earned the least and had an income around the minimum wage, the increase in the minimum wage by HUF 30,000 and the introduction of family-type taxation was a step forward. And for everyone who works in the social sphere, and for those who have the sector's salary that you have just spoken abusively about, it has caused 93,000 people an increase in income from 6 thousand to 17 200 forints. Overall, the budget spent 12 billion HUF on this plus this year and last year. We guaranteed this in 2014 and 2015, and we will obviously continue to guarantee it. It's a sectoral surrogate that hasn't been in the social sphere. And as you well know, with the Government's decision of 20 May, additional funds have been allocated precisely to increase the wages of social workers, with HUF 7.6 billion in the amount we are spending on this budget. [[14.20]] This relieves internal wage tension, helping precisely those with about 65 thousand higher educational attainments who have a longer period of service and a higher level of education. It's more important to spend money on this and keep them on this field than many other things. This is why the government decided that from 1 July this year, as has already been said here in Parliament, these people will increase their income by an average gross amount of HUF 16,000 per month. We hope that this will be a continuing professional force, and we hope that those people with knowledge, professional knowledge and experience feel that we are trying to appreciate their work and, where possible, make their situation easier financially. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-26-26	Thank you very much. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2015-05-26-27	Mr President, I can't accept the answer. I would like to quote Mr. Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, what he said on the radio. In this sector, there are a lot of people who should not be allowed to work near people, let alone for social work. This is the consequence of a long-term downgrading of a profession. A man has never humiliated a profession like Secretary Charles Czibere, and you have done the same thing in those two minutes. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] In which you dealt with these four minutes! Dear Secretary of State, Do you know how much net income is in Hungary? 155,000 forints! Do you know how much in the social sphere? If you don't know, I'll help you. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] 'Cause you don't seem to know that, and no one from the Fidesz benches. 71,000 forints net! [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You reduced it!]] And you guys have been talking about raising wages for years? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why did the MSZP reduce it? We raised in 2014!]] I would remind you that in 2008 the Bajnai government last raised in the social sphere! You just took me away from these people and humiliated them! I can't accept it, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-28	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 44 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When does the government admit that it is unable to cope with sovereign debt? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-05-26-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the time when Fidesz won the election at the end of the first quarter of 2010, the level of public debt was 84 percent in Hungary. As one of the first measures, the Orbán government announced that it would forcely nationalise the assets of 3 million private pension funds, and by force the government gained HUF 3 000 billion; this could have been achieved, with only one step, so that the level of public debt would be reduced from 84 per cent inherited by socialist governments to 74 per cent. Compared to that, what are we looking at right now? The level of public debt is well above 74 per cent, and very, very far from the level defined in the convergence programme, the Széll Kálmán programme, from 65 to 70%, which the government has set as a goal. What can we see? The Orbán government's austerity measures came one by one. The economy received new taxes and tax increases one after another, and one after another there was news that the number of Hungarians fleeing abroad had increased by another 100,000, because people could not make a living from the income that the government had left behind. What have we seen recently? We have seen that the Hungarian economy has lost its competitiveness, the government has not been able to reduce its public debt as quickly as it has taken away its private pension fund assets. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and many austerity measures practically did not make sense. The restriction policy, which exceeded even Lajos Bokros' restrictions, did not lead to any result. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, if the government wants to rewrite the sovereign debt rule, whether it's trying to increase its ability to reduce public debt. Because it can be seen that this sovereign debt rule did not lead to a reduction in public debt year after year; the last time, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, admitted this. I ask you, Mr Secretary, can't you see that the restrictions were pointless? Can't you see that the world's highest VAT rate has led to the strengthening of the black economy, because between HUF 900 billion and HUF 1200 billion is the amount that is being cheated in this way and will not be included in the Hungarian budget? Can't the government see that with this tax policy, with which they can have excellent work, living workers, the bleeding out of Hungarian people makes Hungarian society poor? I'm asking and waiting for your honored answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-26-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad you didn't say your written interpellation. You have also admitted that it is unspeakable, because even in that interpellation, you have acknowledged that Fidesz is pursuing an economic policy that results in significant economic growth in the country, because you have already seen that economic growth as a result of Fidesz's economic policy will be so great that this debt formula will not be adequate and will slow down economic growth. You wrote this. Then, in the interpellation that he didn't finally tell us, he also writes that the budget for 2016 has an interest cost of 1200 billion for public finances. He was probably looking at the budget, and he did realize that it wasn't the case, it was just HUF 900 billion, and that the government's interest expenditure was reduced by HUF 170 billion compared to 2011. I'm glad you saw that. You also have to admit that when the Orbán government first laid down this certain debt reduction formula in the Fundamental Law, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in the Act on Economic Stability, on the other hand, and the Parliament adopted it, this was of historical importance, since the Parliament adopted for the first time in Hungary a parliament to limit the current government in not increasing the budget deficit, but reducing and not increasing the state's debt, but reducing it. This was certainly historic, even if, in the economic situation at that time, otherwise, economic growth and performance were much weaker and inflation was much higher, the formula at that time was in line with the economic conditions at that time. I believe that in terms of economic performance, the country's performance, by achieving one of the highest percentage of economic growth in the European Union, and in terms of inflation, it is time to set out a new economic formula for the new economic situation, which really does not reduce the maximum potential for economic growth. That is why the government has submitted the new rule in the bill establishing the budget, which leaves its current wording only in the case of economic growth of more than 3 per cent and inflation below 3 per cent. And what I cannot accept for Jobbik, the Member, is that the government has done nothing to reduce debt, but has brought only cuts. None of them are true. There was neither a restriction nor a finding that the level of public debt had not decreased. If, by the way, the Member does not believe the Government, I suggest that he read the report of the European Commission. The European Commission also clearly states that every year in Hungary the level of public debt is falling, and Hungary is well on track in this respect. I think the government has done everything in its power to do this. There is a significant reduction in public debt compared to the EU average. While Hungary had 76.9 percent GDP in 2014, the EU average is 10 percent higher, above 86 percent; and this was still reversed in 2010, Hungary's government debt was significantly above the EU average. I think that [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Jobbik must also accept if the government is pursuing a good economic policy [[The president's ringing again.]] and one of its results is a reduction in public debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[14.30]]
u2015-05-26-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-26-33	I can't accept that answer, Mr. Secretary. You regularly, together with the rest of the government, claim that GDP is increasing. Mr State Secretary, the Hungarian people are very tired of this. That's what you've been hearing from socialist governments and you for 25 years, that GDP is growing, that everything is fine. Meanwhile, the Hungarian industry disappeared, Hungarian agriculture went down, your governments and socialist governments stole the country apart, helping each other, taking turns. In this period, it cannot be said either that the fate of the people would have improved, Mr Secretary of State, because if we look at how much a Hungarian average person made in euro in 2010, we can see that the average wage in Hungary has now decreased in euro. You can talk about the growth shown in the weakening forint - the emigration of people, the poverty of people just shows that your economic policy has been a failure. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-34	Thank you. Since the Member did not accept the answer, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 31 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: å The government is fighting against the great estates by intensively supporting them? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-05-26-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Unfortunately, the last few weeks have shown that they have completely broken up with the national rural strategy that you have adopted and supported. We have not been able to accept this in the form of a parliamentary resolution, and your votes have prevented this, but in the same way the property management of the national parks... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2015-05-26-36	Honourable Congressman, I respectfully remind you that the difference between the immediate question and the interpellation is that the exact text of the interpellation should be read. [[Noise.]] I'm listening. Here.
u2015-05-26-37	Then I'll go back to the beginning. [[Dr. István Vitányi offers his glasses to the congressman. Defiance.]] It's okay. The government is said to be fighting against the great estates and speculators, while apparently Fidesz itself has created a large-scale ownership system. Last time, Lőrinc Mészáros, years earlier Simicska, Csányi, Leisztinger, Nyerges built agricultural business nets. They are the ones who, in addition to the various subsidies, have enjoyed and enjoy privileged access to state land. In addition to them, the interests of two Fidesz politicians, a minister and a member of the Agriculture Committee were added to the list of 100 most agricultural support companies. In the last seven years, Sándor Csányi's companies have received a total of HUF 33.4 billion in the last two years. For years, LMP has been repeating cases of small farmers who have not had access to 10 hectares of state land at the border of their own settlement. To them, despite the government telling them that instead of 600, there are now 7500 jobs in agriculture, obviously a large part of the countryside does not feel that way. Obviously, the essence of my interpellation is that, while the government is talking about their intention to significantly hinder the spread of the major estate, how can it be compared, for example, to the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros has acquired thousands of hectares of public land in recent years and is winning billions of dollars in public procurement in addition. Is he the small estate of the Fidesz? In Fejér county, he has won over 800 hectares of state land from local farmers, for 20 years into leases, and currently has over 3,000 hectares of land. This is not otherwise the case with Tibor Flag's agricultural chamber manager. Another symbolic case from a village: the other day we visited a local government in Tolna County, where only 15 hectares of land would be needed to make the Start Public Works Programme more effective, but they did not, because the Csányi Sándor companies received the hundreds of hectares in the region. The NFA responsible for managing state land has proved inadequate to carry out its tasks, the State Audit Office has repeatedly found irregularities in the operation of the land fund manager in recent years and has called for this to be corrected. Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, has been told by the court in a procedure relating to property policy that he lied and deceived the public. How much longer can he do that? Exactly when will the government's promise of 80:20 percent small economy and big economy come true? Will there be enough time for the Hungarian countryside to wait before it is completely depopulated? Please give specific answers, Minister, to the questions raised instead of to the general speeches. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-38	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Fazekas.
u2015-05-26-39	Dear Parliament, Mr. Speaker, Honourable Congressman, It really is a heartbreaking comment that we have heard from Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai. You make this warrior stand against the great estates a tear, but I think it's worth stopping for a moment. After all, you are constantly attacking the government's estate policy, constantly attacking the land for the farmers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What are you doing?]] You are asking for a specific example, Mr President, of how this programme works. Maybe I'll start with the end of your comment. I'll give you a specific example, Congressman, of Tourkeve. I'll give you an example of Tourkeve: your example, since you are the government's landowner's policy, as a resident farmer, by the way, a beneficiary, a winner, not even a small winner. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Róbert Sallai Benedek and his wife, as well as an enterprise in which he is a part owner, won 216 hectares of land under the programme for farmers. Congratulations, Congressman. Alsó-Berettyó Melléki Kft. 139 hectares, your wife, Anna Barbara Iványi 33,4 hectares, and this kft. He won another 44 hectares. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties.]] This means about 14 million forints of agricultural support per year. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties: Yikes! Ouch!]] I'm not going to add or multiply what it is in seven years, because obviously there are other areas, there could be other leases. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's a family economic size, the area payment, as it is included, it's after the ground. That is what you and your interests have gained, honourable Member. So it's not really clear to me what your problem is with the land for the farmers, because you can see that you're helping the local family farmers. The expired and the... [[To intervene:]] We'll get that answer. I've been listening to you, and I'm asking you to listen to me. [[Noise.]] The land that has expired or is due will be leased by the government. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise.]] The land that has expired or is due will be leased by the government. (Noise. - The president's ringing. It also rents land in settlements where Start work is requested, provided there is such an area. Where there is none, we have to wait until the land lease expires; through the Ministry of Interior, this supply to the land works otherwise. So much for the municipal issue. (Noise) The other thing is the matter of the estates. Dear Parliament, I'd like to share the results of an investigation with you. The owner, the owner of the public land, who occupied more than 500 hectares of land, was 53 of the land for farmers at the beginning of the programme. That means 85,000 hectares of land use. So a tenant had 1,600 hectares of land. There are now 1,500 tenants in the same area instead of 53, for example, the Member is likely to rent in this area. So there are 1,500, 53 large estates so far, we have used 250 thousand hectares, and the result is that today the ratio between large estates and small estates in Hungary has changed as follows. While in 2010 some 45 percent of the large estates were used for the border and the small ones were at 50 percent, this changed today, as the proportion of the small ones increased significantly, now 54 percent, and 200,000 hectares more, the large ones fell to 42 percent. And this will continue in the framework of the national rural strategy, following the principles of the national rural strategy, since the government's aim is to: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To reduce the proportion of large estates to 20 percent.
u2015-05-26-40	Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-41	I trust that this answer has been exhausting and thorough and therefore acceptable to the Member. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-05-26-42	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Sallai Benedek if he will accept the ministerial answer.
u2015-05-26-43	Thank you, Minister. What can we expect? Like a dog, like its owner. They told me about Bitay Márton Örs that he was lying, and that's pretty much what you were doing. [[Rushing from the pro-government benches. Incoming shouts: Alas, alas!]] I've got my area payment right in front of me. I didn't win one square meter, one square meter. I can show you all the applications. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The report is on!]] And as a result, it's obviously a misdirection. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: What report?]] Says you, but I'm not surprised you know these figures wrong, because you're the one who couldn't count the sheep in two counties, including your own county, and you've been talking in public. Then if you learn or count how many wild horses there are in Pentezug and you can count them, I'll believe any figure. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: If you shout, your house is on fire!]] In the meantime, it would be good to talk more about how it is possible that the money that has been traded has been lost and can't even count where it has gone. So pay attention to these numbers. In the meantime, I'm happy to be at your disposal with my area payment, which I gave you, so you can take a look at this. Thank you very much. I didn't accept the answer.
u2015-05-26-44	Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes to 39, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Márius Révész, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The family with the first title. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Orbán family!]] Congressman Márius Révész has the floor.
u2015-05-26-45	Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government's priority was to strengthen families and to have as many children as possible in Hungary in the previous cycle. To do this, we had to achieve that childbearing and work must be mutually reinforcing and not mutually exclusive. Mothers had to be helped, so that they could work alongside raising children if they wanted to. Children's benefits and benefits have increased unprecedentedly in recent years, and many family-friendly measures make it easier for families to make a living. From 2010 onwards, we raised the child again for three years, and after the twin children there is a separate benefit. In 2011, adoption law and family taxation have been in place. After the transformation of the tax system, nearly HUF 185 billion more income remained in 2013 than some 950,000 Hungarian families with children. In order to enable families with low incomes and more children to take advantage of family tax incentives, we have deducted tax benefits from social security contributions from 2014, making it easier to make a living for nearly 270 thousand families. For example, this meant a net income increase of HUF 16,000 per month for a minimum wage earning parent with three children. The maximum amount of gyed increased by almost 40 percent between 2010 and 14 years. From 2014 the ged extra lives, which improves the situation of families with small children, the parent can also work alongside the child, the care can be used for several children at the same time, the fathers can also use it, and the students in higher education can also have it. The job protection action helps mothers who wish to return to work with a reduction in their employer's contributions. In the case of mothers with multiple children, the non-contributory and reduced period has been increased to five years. A monthly tax allowance of HUF 5000 will be granted to first-wives; from July the family's home-building discount, the CSOK, this measure can help families with no children, but with at least one child and one child: from 500,000 to more than 3 million forints, parents, married or partners will receive state support for their existing children, as well as married couples who wish to have children for the next four years. This family support system is also very positive in European comparison. Dear Secretary of State, What are the results of the so far family support measures? How did women's employment develop in Hungary? Is there any indication of how the employment of mothers with small children has changed? How many mothers, who returned from children, have received the employer's contribution allowance? How many mothers have lived with the ged extra and the lawn for college students? How much has the cradle and family day care room increased since 2010? How much money is available for family home-building benefits, and how many families are expected to benefit each year, and what additional measures are planned? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-26-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2015-05-26-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for this question, which, I believe, gave a good overview of the family policy of the last five years. I do not want to repeat these measures again, but I would like to highlight their point. We give people jobs, and we want to keep the income from work as much as possible with families. Our goal is to enable people, family members, to work as much as possible to devote their income from work to their children's education. Thus, we take the burden of raising children as much as possible, taking them off the shoulders of families and parents. Before I address the specific answers, I would like to emphasise one thing. We don't tell anyone what to do. We don't tell you what decisions to make. Our current measures do not aim for a mother to go back to work with her child as soon as possible, because every life situation is different, every family has a different choice, and our goal is to support these individual decisions and to give freedom of choice to both mothers and fathers and families. Our goal is to establish a predictable, predictable, but flexible family support system, and we have done so over the past five years. If you think about giving back the third year's child at the same time, which had been taken away from us by the ill - standing ancestors, and at the same time extending the possibility of working for children, then you can see that we are really looking for flexibility. If you allow me to be a little personal at this point, I would say that I, for example, went back to work with my first child when he was 20 months old, then I realized how much better it was to be with the children, so I spent three years at home with the second, but I went back to work at the age of two from the third. If you are raising a child, I think you know that every mother knows that it is not so easy to make this decision, and that it is not always determined by her own ambitions, but sometimes forced to return to the labour market. So when we set up this flexible family support system, we are guided by these goals. But to answer your specific questions: female employment has not been at its peak in 20 years, in 2014, we reached 1 million 867 000. If you look at the employment rate of women aged between 25 and 49 who are under the age of three, they have increased by nearly one and a half times between the second quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of the following year, from 10,6 percent to 16.2 percent. So we have seen a significant increase here, too. The fact is that this is still below the European average, and our goal is not necessarily to increase female employment in this age group, especially among children under the age of three. The results of the job protection operation are also visible. The congressman also mentioned the changes. In March 2015, nearly 40,000 people, 39 803 people, were eligible for the benefit, which is 12 percent more than during the same period of the previous year. It is therefore clear that this measure is also popular. We should also encourage employers to employ mothers with small children. From 2015 onwards, this benefit will also be fully available for part-time parents. The ged extra has been used by nearly 50,000 people, and the cradle seats have been increased by 1.5 times in five years, and the goal is to reach 60,000. I haven't told you about the CHOK. There we plan to support 12,000 families with HUF 9.5 billion. So I feel that our government really has families first. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-26-48	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-26-49	Thank you very much. The main goal in Hungary is to increase the number of births in families, and a very small shift is visible, which is encouraging. But let me tell my fellow Members that the number of births has increased in vain, say, 3 thousand, 92 thousand, but we are at the very beginning of the road, because in order for Hungarian society to reproduce itself, about 120 thousand children should be born each year, perhaps even a little more. [[14.50]] So I would encourage the secretary of state to go on this path with the determination she has so far, to further improve female employment, to increase family support, because if we look at poverty statistics, we still see that families with many children are in a very large part of poverty. However, I think that the path on which we have started is encouraging, and the initiatives that Mrs Secretary of State has announced give rise to optimism. So thank you very much, I accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Years of reviews, uncertain benefits, falling benefits. What about the invalids? Supply without a pension? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2015-05-26-51	Thank you very much. Dear House, One of the prime measures of the government was the targeting and scapegoating of people with disabilities, including disabled people. By destroying the supply system, eliminating the disability and accident pensions, people have suffered serious damage, not only by taking and reducing care for the disabled, but also for people living from work and wages who could become affected at any moment. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that disability or accident disability is not a planned problem, but an insurance risk. In order to improve the system, they needed to review all potential stakeholders - i put the potential in a quotation mark - from whom they were not ashamed to take away their benefits. Reviews involving nearly 200,000 people have not yet been completed, even though the review deadline has already been extended twice. The so-called new, modified complex review system acts with such rigour against the right holders as if they were all crooks, but that is not the case. Many have been cut off, many have been cut off, and tens of thousands are still waiting. Most of the people who were thrown out of the system were left without care, and they had no support, no job. Rehabilitation, which is often said, does not work properly, and how it would help those who are only fit to work on paper. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The transformation has led to many absurd situations, and I would like to point out just a few of them, on which I would like to ask the Secretary of State. Up to three years of rehabilitation will soon be completed for the majority of patients receiving rehabilitation care. What about about 160,000 people who are no longer entitled to any money in the future, but who will not have a job? The second question is: they received nearly HUF 10 billion of EU funding for IT developments and infrastructure investments, but instead of the 60 days required, they will receive the decision in an average of 5-6 months, but hold on, I know of a case where a year or so or I have heard of a case where it took three years to reach a decision and deliver it. In English: why not ensure that the decision is given to the parties concerned within a given period of time? In addition, the government spent 44 billion forints on employment for people with disabilities, even though the rehabilitation contribution, as I read, generated some 62 billion forints of revenue. I ask the Secretary of State where the 18 billion forints have gone, which is the difference between the two. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-52	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-26-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to reject the sentence that you started by saying that, no matter how far these people would have been targeted by the government, they would have become scapegoats. We have repeatedly quoted the speech by your former boss, Minister Erika Szűcs, on 29 September 2008, when she said some of her speech on the direction of the regulation:. Not only the needs of the economy, but also the daily experiences of all of us confirm what is the real expectation of society in the case of more than 400 thousand disabled people of working age. This expectation is clear for those who are able to work, work and work; there should be more taxpayers, so that fewer taxes can provide a decent living for our fellow countrymen who are no longer helped by rehabilitation. It's our social agenda, not saving money. That's what your former boss said. You talked about this series of measures, but Fidesz-KDNP did. I am pleased that you are speaking in a more modest manner. Let us not forget that when you spoke about this plan earlier in the summer of 2012, even your party president, Attila Mesterházy, was called upon to distance himself from you as a member of the presidency on 5 July 2012. It confirms the reality of this process, the reality of the investigation - you may have read the number too, but you forgot to mention it - that 466 people who were obliged to give a declaration during the rehabilitation review did not request a review, but 9789 people did not comment, so in their case it was acknowledged that this kind of allowance should not be paid later. I also think it is important that in the last five years we have achieved great success with the introduction of a rehab card or with employers' incentives, because from 40,000 to 80,000 of those with disabilities who are working, who are employed. We can say that the proportion of these people has doubled in four years. The 2011 CXCI. The Act introduced a somewhat new approach, since instead of determining the percentage of health damage, it turned the basis for entitlement to benefits into a complex qualification based on medical, employment policy and social considerations, where there is indeed a great emphasis on rehabilitability to return to the labour market. This introduced new approach ensures that patients are graded on the same basis in the country, thus ensuring equal opportunities and minimising the possibility of subjectivity. The purpose of the rehabilitation procedure is to facilitate the return to the labour market for persons deemed rehabilitable on the basis of a complex rating. In order to achieve this goal, the person receiving rehabilitation benefits will also receive rehabilitation services in addition to cash benefits, while encouraging employers to employ people with disabilities. Rehabilitation care can be used by a person with a reduced working ability during the period of rehabilitation, which, as you said, can be up to three years. The customer may then apply again for the benefits of persons with disabilities, where it is justified to establish rehabilitation benefits in the event of loss of health after an invalidity benefit or a complex rating. Invalidity benefits are granted for an indefinite period of time, so that the State provides the rightholder as long as his or her health status justifies it. In order to speed up certifications, we have introduced additional salaries for medical experts from TÁMOP projects and infrastructure development, but most importantly, for all who are receiving disability benefits, this is, of course, an indefinite period for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-26-55	I'm sorry, but I can't accept the answer. Dear Secretary of State, I have already stated on several occasions that I agree with the aim. I used to agree, and I still agree that anyone who can work should work. I don't agree with the method, because these people are in an unworthy situation. Of course, the interpellation period is not suitable for quoting letters, but I am sorry if a system is changed in such a way that if a person is rehabilitated, and it consists of medical rehabilitation, an employer's, employment rehabilitation and, at the end of it, a training, re-training, and if they do everything they can and if they can't be rehabilitated, he could be disabled in the previous system. Now he can't afford a disability pension because the disability and accident disability pensions have been abolished. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State did not respond to the shortening of the deadlines for receipt of the decision which you have set. There are times when you have to wait six months for someone to receive the resolution. I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[15.00]]
u2015-05-26-56	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: "What is the punishment of a vile murderer? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-05-26-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A survey shows that 30 people were killed in Hungary during the period from the second half of February to the middle of April, in some 50 days. Therefore, it can be seen that at present there is no deterrent effect of the Btk. There are also a number of criminal prevention and law enforcement problems. At the same time, we can also see that the Moorish butchers, the Italian lynchmen, the murderers of ten-year-old Sita Bence, and I could still list the various crimes, are not at all deterred by the sanctions currently in force. In addition, we often encounter problems with the application of the law. We see that many times forensic or judgmental judges have misdemeanorized serious, lifeless acts, or that in the Marian Cozma case, the penalty is set far below the highest level that can be imposed. But there are problems not only with the application of law, but also with legislation. An old dispute between us, Fidesz and Jobbik, remains in the Btk., an outdated rule that only the unsub who was 20 years of age at the time of the crime is sentenced to life imprisonment. I would like to point out that the perpetrators of the 2012 Sopron Double-Homicide murder and the latest horrific crime, the perpetrator of the Kaposvár Trafikos murder, will escape the most serious punishment because he committed these acts just before the age of 20. What can you tell the five children of the two family fathers who were brutally murdered in the Sopron shooting range, what can you tell us, what can you send us? Through its sanctioning system to the relatives of the tramp girl? After all, there is no reason to maintain such a kind of criminal law, criminal code vacuum. Anyone who is 18 years of age, Mr Secretary of State, who has full responsibility for his actions, must be aware of all the consequences of his conduct. There is no reason for such a criminal advantage, a privilege, to be associated with a young adult age. I have tabled several amendments, and twice in the last cycle I have drawn your attention to the abolition and repeal of this completely unnecessary, pointless, very many criminals. You've wiped them out. It was swept off last week when we also submitted this in connection with criminal law. Otherwise, it is also before the House as an independent motion, and soon the Judicial Committee will discuss it. I would ask you that, in the last example, which was just over a month ago, you consider it normal that, because of the existence of such a completely lifeless rule, the Kaposvár killer, since he was 19 years old at the time of the crime, will get away with it by up to 20 years. You have to take off one third of this discount, so worst or best case, you get out at the age of 33, and you will enjoy all the joys of free life. That's why I'm asking if you think it's fair, proportionate. Is that a worthy punishment for a vile murderer, or is that a far more serious legal consequence? So are you willing to take it out, repeal it, listen to Jobbik, this completely pointless and outdated rule? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2015-05-26-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we have carried out this debate or similar debate several times in Parliament, on the one hand, during previous amendments to the Criminal Code and during the debate and last time during the debate on the criminal law amendments that you have proposed. Our position hasn't changed. The only way to answer the question in your interpellation of what is a worthy punishment for a vile murderer is to answer it: the worst possible punishment. However, we are not here to legislate, we are here to make laws. Unfortunately, even many of my fellow Members confuse legislation with legislation. The serious, inhumane crimes you've listed are condemned by the government, but we can only hope that justice will indeed impose the most severe punishment on murderers. Prior to the introduction of the actual life sentence in 1999, the number of manslaughters per year exceeded 200 and gradually decreased to nearly half for several years. Currently, an average of 130-140 people are killed annually in Hungary, one of which is a terrible tragedy. But these data do not justify your claim that there is no deterrent to the most serious punishment that could be imposed in Hungary. Hungarian criminal law has traditionally distinguished adult and young adult offenders. By the latter, we mean 18 to 21-year-old offenders. Even the 1878 Csemegi Code allowed the main penalty to be imposed only over 20 years of age. According to the Csemegi Code, between 12 and 16 years of age, the perpetrator was considered to be underage and between 16 and 20 years of age, so the criminal law at that time is even more differentiated. I would like to stress that Article XIX of the Treaty provides that: We're talking about criminal law in the first century, which made the perpetrators more different based on their age. Honourable Congressman, In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the criminal code has increased the general maximum term of imprisonment from 15 to 20 years, or the maximum limit of fixed-term imprisonment from 20 to 25 years in the case of criminal organisation, special or multiple relapses, or set-up, or total punishment, which already applies to young adult offenders. Thus, we believe that this provides an appropriate framework for the imposition of a sufficiently strict penalty in the event of a serious crime. So once again, I would like to reiterate that the criminal law changes that have taken place in the last five years, the new criminal code has increased the maximum term of imprisonment; five years more can be imposed, serious crimes such as manslaughter and other crimes in a set can be severely punished. Of course, we will continue to consider your proposal every time you submit it, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are not the ones who have the right to legislate in specific crimes, that is the duty of the court. Thank you. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-26-61	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept the answer. It is far from my point of view that I would like to intervene in any specific matter, or I would like to tell the court what punishments to impose, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Csemegi Code entered into force 137 years ago, that any legislation at all, and that any legislation at all, should respond to changed social conditions, changing living conditions. You seem unable to do so in this area. On the other hand, it's funny that a XIX. 20th century criminal code reference is made to a 20th century criminal code. 21st century Party of the 21st century At the beginning of the century. That's a special smile on a man's face. Interestingly, the Csemegi Code is not referred to in the context of the death penalty, because the Csemegi Code was aware of the possibility of imposing the death penalty. Then I would also like to refer back to this, which you are shutting down from, by the way, even our political debate day initiative. On the other hand, Mr. Secretary, you answered not only to me, but also to the relatives of the murdered girl. So you think it's natural and normal for such an perpetrator to be released after 13 years of such an act, just because you insist on a long-running, long-time-old rule. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-62	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 21 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor. [[15.10]]
u2015-05-26-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI The major challenge of Europe and Hungary of the 20th century is to reverse the decline in birth rates and to move negative demographic trends towards growth. It is worth considering what needs to be done for the state, civil society organisations, families and young people who are about to start a family in order for their population to grow. We need to work together, because the state and the aid it provides cannot lead to growth in total. We need to find answers to the problems that hinder childbearing in different areas of life. These may include discrimination at work, difficulties in finding a partner, unstable relationships or the challenges of reconciling work and private life. Over the last five years, the government has taken a number of measures, most of which, in terms of forints, support families' intention to have children, as well as promote awareness-raising programmes that encourage couples to accept child sacrifice. Support is important, since it may be possible with the right incentives to give birth to children who our young people dream of having children instead of the current number of children. The increase in the number of births is in the common interest of all Hungarians, as this is a guarantee of Hungarian survival and future. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether the number of births has increased in recent years, and what new measures support families with children in Hungary? I look forward to the honour of Mrs Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-64	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2015-05-26-65	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for this question, because I believe that the demographic situation and the demographic challenges that we are facing cannot be talked enough here, within the walls of Parliament, which is one of the most important things that we are concerned about on the government side. If we look at the demographic figures that Mr President has asked us about, I can say that by the end of 2010, each demographic indicator has changed in a positive direction by the end of 2014. The extent to which this is related to government measures, I would like to give an example: between 2002-2010, the number of marriages decreased by 24 per cent and then grew by 9 per cent from 2010 to 2014. I think it also shows that there is a link, and if we continue to look at the figures, then we can say that the population loss - and here I would refer back to the words of Congressman Márius Révész, we can still talk about population loss - has decreased by 14 percent over the past period. The fertility rate increased from 1.26 in 2010 to 1.41 in 2014. What does that mean? This means that on average 12 children were born into 10 families in 2010 and 14 children on average in 2014. This is still not enough, it would be good to have at least 21 children in 10 families on average, or even more, if possible, but to say that the trend is positive. If we look at the increase in birth numbers, we saw a 3.2 percent increase in 2014, which is the largest increase in the last 30 years. So I think this is a very serious achievement, especially if we consider that, with a negative Ratko effect, the number of women of childbearing age has decreased in the past period and will continue to decline even in the period ahead. I would also like to highlight the number of abortions and their change. This showed a 20 percent decrease between 2010 and 2014, so we can say that each demographic indicator has changed positively over the past four years - and we hope that this trend will remain in the future. This, in my opinion, is also largely due to the financial support that the government provides to families. Here I would just like to point out that, compared to the 2010 level, we will give the families an extra HUF 1100 billion by 2016, so this is just the surplus compared to the 2010 family support system. Since it's a huge number, I'd like to project it on a family. On average, for a family with children over this five-year period, there is nearly one million HUF extra funds, so I think it is a significant support for families. Compared to the 2010 family support, the 2015 appropriation represents a surplus of nearly HUF 228 billion, and if you look at the support of a family, a family with two children will receive an average of 65 percent, 70 percent with two children, while a three-year-old will receive more than twice as much support from the birth of his children until he becomes an adult than in 2010. As you said, Mr President, in addition to financial support, it is extremely important to have an approach, which is why we have decided to extend the ged extra and create an opportunity. Here I would add, many people ask how many mothers or families this will affect, that is not the point; the point is that the mother should have the opportunity to go to work in such a way that it will not be a disadvantage if she returns to work. We are also planning a change in the supervision of those under the age of 3, and we want to expand the system here, make it as many actors as possible, along with my conviction that the best place for a small child is with his mother, or that if his mother can't do that, then it is best that the grandmother can take care of him, and this is also the case for women 40 measures, which have already been used by nearly 140,000 people. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-66	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask Mr Szászfalvi, if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-05-26-67	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I accept the answer, of course. I think it is obvious to all of us that it is a matter of national strategy and a task for us to radically change negative demographic processes, and I am pleased that the government is working with this responsibility, seriousness and ambition in this area, because a number of measures have been taken over the last five years and a complex system of government support has been established by the government. Of course, it is possible to continue this goal, and it must be continued. I ask the secretary of state, the government, to further strengthen these processes, to extend them further and to complete this family support system. Thank you again. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What does the government say to emigrating Hungarians? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-05-26-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Secretary of State, [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Let's look at the facts. Today, about 300-500 thousand of our compatriots live abroad, typically in Western Europe. According to Tárki's recent statement, the proportion of emigration designers also makes a record, one in ten Hungarian citizens consider leaving this country, half of the 18-29-year-olds want to move abroad. They tell us themselves, if we ask why, and they do not say what the government says, that they would leave because of an adventure, but they talk about wages, talk about jobs and prospects, and, among other things, how much they try to shine on the demographic situation here today, it is basically that in this country there is no way to make a living on wages and salaries. I would also like to point out that it is an increasingly serious problem, Madam Secretary, that an increasing proportion of women of childbearing potential live and have children abroad, we are talking about 6-8 percent of women, which was 1-2 percent ten years ago. How the government doesn't take this problem seriously and how bad it is with this whole question, it shows that the only thing they did was to create the . Come home, young man! The programme, which, according to Minister of State Czomba, has 40,000 registrations. This turned out to be not a registration, but a Facebook access, and I watched it today, on the 26th of October V., 461 likes. By the way, the last entry was on May 11th, and it was advertised for an open day in London, and four people liked it, but it also contains a questionnaire that helps entrepreneurs. Dear Secretary of State, Do you really think this is what young people moving abroad need? I think you should do a program, write your address to come home, you have community service, and write that according to the recent data from the National Employment Service, three-quarters of the new jobs are community service in this country. Complex regions have settled into public work and are among the poorest regions in the EU. According to Eurostat data, the break-off continues to increase, which is a clear indication that the workers' poverty model in Orbán has failed. [[15.20]] But we also see that public work as such has gone backwards, since it has long been not that these people, the public workers, would find their way back to the open labour market, but that the person who has a regular job for the pay of his employees, is relatively easily tied up in public work in this country. Dear Secretary of State, Seriously, I'm asking you, that's really what you can give these people, the, come home, young man! What's the program? Because I think it's a much bigger problem than what you think it is. We see that this country will lose a whole layer of people who want, can and want to do something with their lives, and this country cannot offer them a solution. [[It's constant noise.]] I would like to know, Mr Secretary of State, what is it between the efforts of the government, which is aimed directly at bringing these young people home, and these people do not have to leave their own country, I repeat: for wages, livelihoods and prospects.
u2015-05-26-70	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask my fellow Members not to interfere with the work of the meeting with small group occupations. Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-05-26-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is indeed an important topic for several times in terms of migration, and I would like to draw your attention to some important things, what is the instrument and potential of the current government in migration, and what is, by the way, a trend in the European Union. To support what I have to say, I would like to draw your attention, but perhaps you do not have to, you must have been watching the recent news: this topic also dominated electoral campaigns from Britain to Poland. At the moment, this is the same problem facing all Central European countries, but the size of the problem is not the same everywhere. In Romania, the migration rate is around 10 percent, i.e. the share of emigrants to the total population is 6 percent in Poland and 2 percent in Poland. Of course, I do not mean to say that there is no need to deal with the problem, but it cannot be said that the Polish Government is doing its job three times worse than the Hungarian Government, because this is probably the only way to find out. There is no doubt that the domestic labour market is not yet able to compete with Western European wages, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the difference in wage levels between the countries that joined the EU with us is within 10-15 percent, while there is a double to triple and quadruple difference compared to developed countries. This will be worth considering after writing, considering, what this very important data is about. 80 percent of the employment is in the competition sphere. Here wages are fundamentally affected not by the government, the government at all, but by the performance of the competition sphere. There is no doubt that the government also has a task, especially with regard to the establishment of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, but here I would like to draw attention to the fact that in recent years, in cooperation with the social partners, wages have been increased by an average of 10.8 percent at national level, which was twice as high as GDP growth. The Hungarian minimum wage has increased by 38 percent in the third of the EU countries over the past four years. Of course, it is still much lower than what we would like to give people, but also because I think that we do not need to deliver these results. That, compared to the end of 2012, the unemployment rate of young people under the age of 25 fell from 29 percent to 19 percent in Hungary, by 10 percent, which is not very possible and not by statistical means, honourable Member... I will tell you a few things: 150,000 young people in the job protection action plan are affected at the moment. At present, 20,000 young people are working on the primary labour market in the first job programme; support for entrepreneurial development and others. Which is the specific, come home, young man! As for the programme: you know, Congresswoman, I understand that that HUF 100 million, as indicated, is obviously enough to start a project, but that is exactly 100 million more than any government has done in this case. Because none of the programs that would have helped bring the young back home have actually been launched, he would have tried to help. I'm glad you checked the numbers. I did my research. To date, 726 people have indicated that they would like to come home. For them there are more than 400 job offers at the moment, and thanks to the Facebook entry, the bad news seemed to be news, and I'm glad to hear it, because suddenly, in four days, the number of clicks increased from 40,000 to 61 thousand, the number of logins, so I would like to continue to encourage young people. So if your question was, what do we say to those who work abroad, come home, young man? - that's what we're gonna tell you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-26-73	Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, this answer does not belong to the category of response, but to the category of embarrassing explanation. This is not the Romanian Parliament, this is not the Polish Parliament, this is the Hungarian Parliament, and I wanted to know what the Hungarian Government is doing to change things here. You could have given up the LMP employee anti-poverty package for me, you could have said that we should have considered extending the family allowance and tax relief to 24-year-olds if they were studying in higher education. He could have said that a fair tax system would finally be introduced, or that what LMP would like, we would have reduced the contributions of businesses, start-ups by 8 percent or we would have made a wage increase in the public sector. He could have said a lot of things, which I would have said was yes, this is a step in the direction of someone coming home to Hungary, and he says that yes, I will have wages, I will have a prospect and I will have a perspective to support my family and myself in this country. That's not the case for now. Dear Secretary of State, You don't have any results. More and more people want to leave this country, and what you're doing is pretty much that category. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm glad you're looking at them in a sad way. It's not a government power!
u2015-05-26-74	Thank you very much. The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 42 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.. How much do people reduce their daily burden under next year's tax laws? It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor.
u2015-05-26-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You will remember the times when, at the time of the presentation of the budget, the stomachs of all Members and ordinary people were even more constricted, since, in addition to the budget, the tax laws were always remembered to make tax increases. This did not happen differently before, because even if they were reduced at a time when socialist governments - for example, I would draw attention to the VAT reduction - were immediately modified after the elections and not only raised to the old level, but even above, the higher the tax rate that was previously reduced, obviously only in an election campaign. Fortunately, today we are living in different times, because we should now not be afraid of what increases are coming, but we can see from the bill where the average tax burden will be reduced. It means, in effect, a bill amending certain issues relating to taxation, that the key to personal income tax will be reduced from 16 to 15 per cent in the following year. This does not seem to be much at first sight, but, fellow Members, this 1 percent will mean a reduction in the tax burden of more than HUF 120 billion. They will also see a reduction of VAT on pig meat to 5 percent, which is very important because, on the one hand, people will have more opportunities to put meat on the table and, on the other hand, help the sector, improve its competitiveness and, in addition, clean up the economy, reduce the black and grey economy in this area. It is also important that Hungarian businesses get cheap credit easily and quickly in the next period. Magyar Nemzeti Bank's growth loan programme has already done this in the market, and it has a very stimulating effect on the economic environment, which we expect to be taken over by commercial banks, especially in the context where next year's bank tax will decrease, we expect and want banks to turn this facilitation back on the market and put businesses in a better position. One of the tax measures to aid health is to turn the health contribution of tobacco businesses into a public burden, which provides long-term funding for the Health Insurance Fund to fund domestic health care. The government also plans that what collects taxes on one side will not be absorbed by the budget, but will turn it back to the area where it belongs, i.e. for Hungarian health care. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The tax package for next year therefore reduces the burden on families, workers, domestic businesses, housewives and administration citizens, so I think that this tax policy can be an example for other states as well. [[15.30]] I am asking Mr Secretary of State how much the burden on people and businesses will be reduced in the following year. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-26-76	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-26-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you don't mind, I'm starting a little further away, because we've been governing for five years now since 2010, and you might see what kind of tax policy the government is pursuing. The essence of the tax policy, which we said back in 2010, is to reduce the tax on income earned, whether it be the individual, i.e. personal income tax, or the company or business, and at the same time to shift the revenue from the budget towards turnover taxes, so lower income tax revenue in the budget, because it is good for people, it is good for businesses, because it remains more than they do, and they can spend more. At the same time, whitening the economy, tightening the system of turnover taxes, VAT payments, for example, see online cash registers, and thus increasing turnover tax revenues. I believe that every year the government has been able to add to this tax policy philosophy. The biggest decision was the introduction of a single-key personal income tax, which, of course, was in enough pain, as the transformation of the previous system was indeed difficult, but the unfair system that did not allow, let's say, a low-income family to benefit from family tax relief had to be stopped. One-key personal income tax is certainly fair, it does not encourage tax avoidance in the first place, since it is the same key for everyone, and at the same time it encourages an increase in performance, as the tax burden does not increase progressively. In personal income tax, while income tax rates have decreased significantly - to 16 percent, this has been introduced as a single key - and in addition to that, families raising children have come to the fore. Families with three children today essentially do not pay personal income tax or, if they do not have enough personal income tax, they do not pay contributions. Basically, their gross income is the same as their net income, which is definitely a huge achievement. This is also the aim for families with two children, and that is why the family tax reduction scheme launched by the Member will be launched, which will be HUF 40,000 a month for two children by 2019. The question, of course, is how much this means to families. In 2016, only a single-key personal income tax reduction will amount to HUF 120 billion and an additional HUF 25 billion will be added to the family tax reduction. But the interesting thing is, we're comparing it to 2010, because it's an incredible number. By transforming the personal income tax system, it remains more than HUF 2700 billion, including this year and next year. So basically in six years, 2700 billion HUF will remain in the pocket of Hungarian families by transforming the personal income tax system. And if we add to the increase in tax relief in the coming years, this will amount to 3,600 billion in total. We should not be surprised when we see that our consumption is increasing, trade flows are increasing, because the government's fiscal policy contributes to this, and the government wants to continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-26-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Erik Bánki if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2015-05-26-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Music was to my ears the set of information and data we heard from the Secretary of State, because I think the facts speak for themselves. Since 2010, since the government started its tax reduction policy and its tax restructuring policy, all its actions have been driven by the only goal that people, Hungarian families, should benefit as much as possible and Hungarian businesses should be as competitive as possible in the domestic and international markets. I think that the HUF 3600 billion that could remain in the family's savings over the past period was indeed a huge help, not only in the impossible situation where foreign exchange loans have taken people out of the country, but also in the need to strengthen these families again and have more opportunities. Dear Secretary of State, In the words of coach Vince Lombardi NFL, the dictionary is the only place where the result precedes the work. I think that the government has proven that work can achieve results. Thank you for your attention and I accept your answer, of course. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-26-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Civil money in the window? It's an address. Mr László Teleki has the floor.
u2015-05-26-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Civilians play a very important role in our country. The scope of civil society organisation is considered to be quite diverse, and in the civil sector all organisations located between the public and traditional private or market sectors are classified. I stress that civil society organisations are private, i.e. non-public bodies; which means that civil society organisations are not directly dependent on government, are not integrated into the public sector, i.e. they are not legally or institutionally part of the public sector. Of course, we're in Hungary, I know that. The activities of civil society organisations operating in Hungary should be recognised by everyone. It would be important, since they are engaged in activities that are often more effective than the system of public and municipal institutions. In the decades since the change of regime, this has been increasingly recognised by the governments. With increasing domestic and EU resources available to them, for example, in the 2008 budget there was HUF 8.5 billion in support of civilians, only for the National Civil Fund programme of 7.7 billion. Unfortunately, in recent years, and especially this year, we can no longer say that. Civil society organisations may obtain the available resources on a separate budget basis by means of a tender assessed by the NEA. This year the budget provides HUF 4.8 billion, 510 million less than last year, which is a 10% decrease. A number of civil society organisations have contacted me about the radical reduction in next year's draft budget leading to the total impossibility of civil society organisations. Last year, the Fidesz government distributed the operational resources of civil society organisations in a rather specific way, making it impossible for organisations that did not fully identify with the views of decision-makers. They do this despite the significant activity that organisations have been carrying out in recent years to make it impossible. Dear Minister, What do you intend to do to raise radically reduced civilian money? What do you intend to do for a fairer payment of already reduced funds? At the same time, the Fidesz government terminated the practice of receiving the same amount in addition to the 1 percent offered. I ask Minister when you intend to restore this good and fair measure. As you know, the civilian sector's ability to generate resources is significant. There, state forints produce new forints and voluntary work, but without state resources, civil energy in this area cannot be used. In a recent statement by the president of the COF - by the way, the president of the civil aid body - there is a threat that the 1 percent law will also be transposed. They would not benefit from 1 percent, a tragedy would be for social and human rights NGOs. Is the statement of the COF president true? Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-26-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have good news for you, and I have good news for civil society organisations, although civil society knows it. CSOs have more resources than HUF 2 billion in 2015 compared to 2014 in the last year. Last year, the National Cooperation Fund distributed 3 billion HUF 380 million of funding between civilians for various purposes, and this year it is 40 percent higher; 5 billion HUF 406 million is the source from which civil society organisations can receive direct support from the state, in a system in which they are the decision-makers themselves, and they can decide on this. [[15.40]] The National Cooperation Fund, you know very well, supports a large number of civilian objectives: 75% of organisations active in leisure, culture, education, sport and social assistance receive these grants. Obviously, this year's work will be much easier; although there will be more work, it will be easier, because more work is needed because more organisations need support, but it is easier because they can support much more good, noble and important goals for all of us. The government sees civil society organisations as strategic partners in a number of areas. Only one part of this is the National Cooperation Fund, and in many cases they are involved in the legislative process, even before legislation and legislation are created. We are also trying to provide CSOs, voluntary organisations with tools that the government has at its disposal. This is primarily the promotion of civil habitus, volunteering, community service at school, as you know, 50 hours for young people before they graduate. In many cases, they can be involved in the work of civil society organisations and charities, and there for 50 hours, which is a significant experience, I must say, so they can really experience acid pepper for civilian life there. If they choose a civil society organisation, such as the Maltese Charity Service, to work there in charity, then they may be more willing to continue volunteering to be a part of their lives and to undertake such voluntary work, which is not forints to NGOs, not billions to be counted as aid, but in the hours of volunteering to help them do so. I am thinking not only of the 50 hours of those who are about to graduate, but also of the fact that if, after graduation, they are in the mood for this civil activity, they will also receive this support from civilians, that many people volunteer with them. Obviously, civil society organisations here should not be confused with fake civil society organisations that operate in opaque forms of financing either foreign or other political intentions, and are disguised as civilians, but in fact, they can be considered the most pressure groups. There are also a lot of civil society organisations as institutional support providers, and they may also receive special support. Here, we are primarily counting on civil society organisations in social work and child protection, and we are also trying to support them in a priority way. The opening of civil information centres was also important because, on the one hand, feedback to the government on the changes that civilians themselves would like to make at the legal level or at the support level. Obviously, the feedback was positive for the two billion HUF increase in resources, but we could have figured that out anyway, because everyone is happy about the increase in resources. When the civil information centres launched with EU funds are over their tendering period, we also provide them with budgetary resources, as they help other civil society organisations in the county by providing information, tendering and clearing advice, fulfilling administrative obligations or consulting them. This favours the organisations that are the smallest, which are the most resource-intensive. We are confident that we can help them. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We also raised the support of CICs from 240 million to 300 million. Please accept the expansion of resources and my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr. László Teleki if he will accept the answer.
u2015-05-26-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm having a hard time saying it, but I can't accept your answer. I'm having a hard time saying this because the civilians should have been reassured. It should have been reassured because they expect the government to raise the envelope, and this envelope, the 5 billion that I mentioned, is not close to the amount I mentioned, i.e. the HUF 8.5 billion envelope in 2008. So you really should have planned their solace for you to figure out how to fix this. The other is what is very important to pay attention to, and I think that what a government must do is to ensure, in particular, transparency in civilian money. I don't have it today in this case. Therefore, I think that you cannot reassure civilians in this either, or the government with the answer that you have given, because it is important that transparency in the distribution of these funds is clearly and clearly seen by the civil sector that you are not seeing right now. So I cannot accept the answer either in its amount or in its transparency. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-86	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. He didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: the Fidesz Lying Factory was once again exposed in the case of Kishantos. When's the apology and compensation coming? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-05-26-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Sooner or later, the truth will find its way for you, and there is no better example of that than the ecological model economy in Kishantos versus your lawsuit, in which the second-degree court ruling said on the 12th of this time that they lied. The Metropolitan Court and the Metropolitan Court of Justice have finally established that Kishantosi Nonprofit Kft has violated it by several false claims made by the Ministry or by misrepresenting a true fact. Your reputation. It was also definitively established that Secretary of State, Márton Bitay, also violated the nonprofit in the interview with him. his reputation with several false statements or a false statement of fact. One of the biggest victims of government booty and vendetta is the model economy in Kishantos and the people working for it. After all, the government not only destroyed 400 hectares of organic Suisse-rated crops, it not only damaged 117 million forints, but destroyed the work of many people's lives. Of course, they tried to communicate this in a way that would reduce public outrage, resulting in this judgment of two weeks ago, which I have already mentioned. Thus, the statements of the government side have failed on several points and have been found to be false. This proved not only that your Secretary of State lied, but also that the Ministry, and thus the deadly blow to Kishantos, was unjust. It has also become clear that you were only driven by important, petty and pathetic revenge when you destroyed the eco-economy. The barbaric elimination of over 400 hectares of land was only one of the negative traditions of your actions. Foam on the cake that the new winners, to whom the land has been distributed, did not in any way correspond to the state estate policy you have communicated, because it is not a matter of people living locally, nor have they been farming for a long time. The 15 lawsuits that are still pending will certainly fully clarify the sample economy, but this does not solve the problem. It is also clear that there is also a vendetta against József Ángyán, because your former Secretary of State has done a great deal to bring the stinking, unfair applications of land to light, and it is well known that the former Secretary of State has had a good relationship with this model economy. I have summarized what we expect the Minister to answer on a few simple issues. When and in what way will the sample farm be compensated? By what means do you intend to repair this immeasurable damage? And what you may have to do now is apologize, Minister. Turns out your ministry, your secretary of state, lied. I think that the first and most important step in Europe after such a decision is to apologize to those involved. What personal consequences could this decision have, Minister? It would be a great pleasure to finally live in a country where there are political consequences. And when are you gonna admit that your whole application system stinks? I expect your answer to these questions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-88	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-05-26-89	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to congratulate the Member on the excellent presentation of documents, I believe that it was worthy and thorough for a lawyer, although it lacked a description of the seven other judgments in which the court gave the Hungarian State the truth in concrete land affairs. I've been thinking about why this praising zeal is, since it's Kishantos. It was not just a company, but the seat of the Balliberal Party for Live Chain Hungary was its host. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] It seems to me that the congressman, in the direction of winning the former SZDSZ voting base or in the territory of the LMP, is trying to find extremely cheap political laurels on a case that has been discussed several times in the walls of this House: the opposition has always said its own position, and I will state the position of the government side. There was a debate in which the court, by the way, gave the truth to the people of Kishantos, and there are still some lawsuits, the outcome of which we look forward to with interest. But I would like to say that the existing judgments are thorough. The existing judgments show that the government is on the side of family farms, and, if necessary, we can enforce the right to have the land owned by the winning applicants, which is state land, not the land of Kishantos, no one took anything away from Kishantos, simply expired. [[15.50]] Compared to this, this thing can still stir up a political storm. That is why I would like to ask you when you will already acknowledge that Kishantosi Centre for Rural Development Kft. illegally obstructing the acquisition of new tenants. I'll tell you the answer. When do you admit that the court had to forbid trespassing? When do they admit that they're kft? didn't pay the rent on the deadline and, above all, that the land wasn't his, but the Hungarian state's? What, then, is the answer, honourable Members, Honourable Parliament? One thing is that Kishantosi Rural Development Center Kft. He knew all along that he was renting public land and not owning this area, and he was still suing. These lawsuits have failed. The court has finally ruled that the Kishantos Rural Development Centre is not entitled to own the property, the Kft. illegally disturbed the new tenants in the possession of the land they leased, thereby trespassing. In fact, the court has prohibited the affected company from engaging in any form of infringement of any future possession of property in relation to the area of the court. It is also a fact that the Rural Development Centre, Kishantos, did not pay the lease fee to the state on the basis of the contract, a total of HUF 27.2 million on the deadline. Thus, the late payment of the lease fee also appears as damage to the National Land Fund, the dispute arose about it, and the damage was later repaid, and the company paid it with a payment. That's what the F.O.D. here accused the state of damage without a foundation. Yeah, well, it wasn't too bad, because in a lawsuit, he was forced to pay what was due to the state, the taxpayers. It's not a glorious story, so it's interesting to have a kft. and the responsibility of its owners is so bypassed by those who ask me so often on this subject. That is why I considered it important to highlight these details in particular. By the way, the wallet will comply with the judgment contained in the personal legal case, but this whole case shows that the Hungarian State is able to implement the programme for the farmers, it takes place within a legal framework, and the farmers can, as a result of the lease application, take possession of the land necessary for their farming. So far, 7500 people have been able to do this. There are some cases where there will be a trial, a debate, an opinion debate. I hope my answer was satisfactory. Please accept it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-90	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the minister's answer.
u2015-05-26-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, there is no debate between us that you, in your former two-thirds possession, have made legislation that has allowed you to do what you have done to Kishantos, for example. This does not make it fair, and it is not realistic at all to destroy one of Europe's best-functioning bio-economy in this way, to destroy decades of value that the country should rightly be proud of, not to destroy it in such unworthy circumstances. The lies that you've told me again, the courts say they're lies. I'm so sorry you ran into this again. This lawsuit was won by the Kft., and so I think that apologies are definitely due to them, and we would have been very curious about the way they want to make it up to them on behalf of those who worked there. I think, Minister, that you should draw personal conclusions. I don't know how you can work with a secretary of state who turned out to have lied about such serious matters. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-92	Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 105 votes to 34, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, has submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with an address for payment of EU funds for the period 2014-2020. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-05-26-93	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said on 16 May this year that Hungary is at the forefront of a great era, because our economic achievements have brought us to the forefront of the European Union. That's a very brave statement, especially the second half of the sentence. At the same time, it is a fact that the EU budget cycle 2014-2020 could be the beginning of a major development era for the country, as in this cycle we can count on a total of HUF 7000 billion of EU funding from the Structural Funds. It is worth noting that in the previous 2007-2013 cycle, we have achieved 97 percent of public investment through EU co-financing. - [[Dr. István Vitányi:]] Excuse me, can I have some silence? - So the inflow of EU money was, or could have been, a real driving force for the country. However, in comparison to this, we can see that no winning tenders from the 2014-2020 cycle have been announced in the last 17 months. While the government communicates that 60 percent of EU funds go to economic development in this cycle, small and medium-sized enterprises will receive more, there is no specific perception of this by entrepreneurs. In addition, according to press reports, the money of the most significant item announced for 2014-2020 - the planned operational programme for economic development and innovation of more than HUF 800 billion this year - is also at risk. Although accreditation of the institutional system has not yet been carried out, the contribution of the competent national authority, the Directorate-General for Auditing European Support for National Economy, is missing, and this is a condition for the accounting of EU funds. Furthermore, the functioning of the IT monitoring system is problematic in the key element of managing EU funds. We know that the EU Commission is dissatisfied with the government's plans to ensure transparency and non-corruption use of EU funds, and this is also slowing down the process. In addition, the ministries are dealing with the closure of the previous period and there is a shortage of capacity to properly launch the new phase. You know better than we do that there are serious problems with the domestic institutional system, the design of the process and the implementation of the effective use of EU funds. This is probably why 45 percent less revenue from EU funds was planned in the 2016 budget than this year. That's a poor performance. That is why I am asking how we will be able to make use of the potential of EU funds. When will there be accepted ops, an appropriate institutional system, an appropriate IT monitoring system? When can people who have been bullied for years apply? Thank you.
u2015-05-26-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács.
u2015-05-26-95	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to thank the May Other for the interest of Politics and your interest in EU funds. I'd like to inform you how we're doing in this situation. I agree with what you said, that without EU funds, Hungarian economic growth would be quite difficult to imagine. We are, therefore, at the moment, at the forefront of economic growth in the EU, able to reduce unemployment and increase employment, all of this without compromising the balance of public finances. For the former Hungarian governments, this was unthinkable. At the same time, we cannot go without saying how this is related to drawing and using EU funds. As a reminder, let's even talk about the period 2007-2013! In 2007 HUF 10.5 billion was paid. This year, we hope it will be HUF 2263 billion, so it is about 220 times earlier. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] At the moment, at the end of May, we are well over 600 billion in payments. A major change in the institutional system and government philosophy cannot be separated from this result. My colleague is asking when operational programmes will be adopted. [[16.00]] I would like to inform you that the Government signed the Partnership Agreement with the European Commission on 11 September 2014. At the same time, operational programmes have been submitted to the European Union. Seven of the ten operational programmes have already been adopted by Brussels. In this regard, I think we are doing well enough so that I can reassure my fellow Member. The adoption of the rural development programme as the eighth operational programme is expected this summer. In its Interpellation, it indicates that the 2016 budget accounts for lower EU revenue. EU cycles cover 7+2 years, i.e. 9 years, and this has a curve. At the beginning of the period, the launch of calls and commitments are a mass task. On this basis, payments will then be made in later years, including EU revenue. A budget that does not take account of this cyclicality or is not realistic would be irresponsible. Some clarification needs to be made about my fellow Member's claim that 800 billion so-called GINOP resources are in danger. If you are referring to the audit of the period 2007-13, there is no correlation with the period. 14-20 in any form. My fellow Member is interested in an appropriate IT monitoring system. I would like to inform you that so far, the managing authorities have taken nearly 300, precisely 294 decisions using the monitoring system. On this basis, a project with a total cost of HUF 23 billion could be implemented. It can be concluded that the IT system managing grants 2014-2020 can carry out the tasks and procedures involved. Finally, I would like to inform you that this year's proposals for the 2014-20 programming period are continuously being published, and in 2015 the government plans to publish 130 calls for proposals worth HUF 2700 billion. So far, 14 calls for support have been launched with a total amount of HUF 164 billion. Therefore, in the second half of the year, tendering dumping will start. I hope that this will reassure the honourable Member and accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-26-97	I can't accept the answer. Secretary of State, according to the press, most of the operational programmes were adopted by the European Union in February this year. If the government had been properly prepared, a significant proportion of the applications could have been launched from March this year, which means that in 2015 and 16 businesses, municipalities and civil society organisations could have received much more EU money. We know that the ECHOP - environment and energy -, IKOP - transport, TOP - county developments - and most of the VEKOP have not published the annual development framework that outlines the calls for proposals, even though these ops were already adopted by the EU in February. This is more than a thousand billion forints slippery. I would also like to respond to public procurement. It is now before the Parliament, even though it was known that the European Union had already criticised it hard last year and should not have waited so long. It seems that the government is slipping in various areas. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Do you accept?]] No, I started by saying I can't accept it.
u2015-05-26-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Member Gábor István Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Private pockets could be enriched by the revenue due to the Patent Office? It's an address. Mr Gábor István Harangozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, On the basis of a contract, the Hungarian patent office has been conducting new research and patentability tests for the Singapore patent office for many years. Of course, this work is paid to the Hungarian party by the Singapore patent office, which is the National Intellectual Property Office, and thus ultimately constitutes the revenue of the Hungarian State. However, there are indications that some of this revenue does not increase the patent office or the Hungarian budget, as the ministerial response to one of my questions shows that the work ordered by the Singaporeans has for some time been not by the office, but by HIPAvilon Kft., which was founded in 2011. You're gonna end up dead. According to the published data, HIPAvilon Kft. has signed a contract with HIPAvilon Kft. to carry out specific tasks and to supplement its capacities since the beginning of 2013. Well, it is incomprehensible why it is necessary to involve an external company if it can carry out the tasks at the expense of the free capacities of the agency, because earlier it was the availability of free capacities that enabled the contract to be concluded with the Singapore office. Moreover, the legality of the transfer of tasks is questionable, as the performance of this task is also subject to chamber membership, liability insurance and confidentiality oath, which does not appear to be the case. Well, then I wonder why HIPAvilon Kft was needed. Involvement? This question is likely to be explained by the point in the contracts with the Office that the Commission has concluded. have the right to use advice, performance assistants and other contributors. This point opens the possibility for the patent office's revenue to migrate into private pockets. It seems strongly that this is another Fidesz money pump, where the competent office is contracted with an ft. to pay for the good greasy order and then the fft. he gives the task to individuals, experts, and misters' pardons, precisely the heads of the office and their customers, his clientele, are able to carry out these tasks, and thus ultimately these funds migrate to private pockets. If that is the case, if that is true, it is not only a case of corruption, but it also seriously undermines confidence in patenting. Therefore, I would ask the Secretary of State to explain why the Office has concluded a contract with this cft., why it is passing on this mandate; in the absence of any legal conditions, this cft will provide it. the task passed on and whether the revenue due to the patent office can indeed enrich private pockets. Please inform me that since 2013 HIPAvilon Kft. the amount paid to consultants, performance assistants and other contributors. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-05-26-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Répássy's interpellation question will be given by State Secretary Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-26-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform my fellow Members before answering the specific question that the management of the National Intellectual Property Office, formerly known as the Patent Office, has been unchanged for about a decade. As stated in the written question of the Member on 27 January 2015, the number of public services provided by the SZTNH and international cooperation based on interinstitutional agreements has increased in recent years. By contrast, the number of offices decreased by more than 10 percent compared to 2012. Thus, it was necessary to introduce a new work organisation, and HIPAvilon Kft. was involved as a 100% state-owned company in the work of SZTNH. In carrying out the activities of the Singapore office, the SZTNH should only involve HIPAvilon Nonprofit Kft. with regard to the performance of part-time tasks. In April 2012, SZTNH took over HIPAvilon Kft. and the legal background of cooperation is provided for in the Act on Patent Protection of Inventions and the Government Decree on the National Body Against Falsification. The SZTNH can therefore only cooperate with HIPAvilon Kft. in the tasks defined by these laws, as we have indicated in our written reply, Congressman. The implementation of the cooperation agreement with the Singapore Intellectual Property Office is also governed by these laws, which is why we cannot understand the Member's question of the lack of legal conditions for HIPAvilon Kft. additional tasks, since HIPAvilon Kft. is based on the above-mentioned legislation. - if you have any further questions on how to use this medicine. [[16.10]] With regard to the fate of the fee from the Singapore contract, I would like to inform you that it will be spent on the one hand on the costs and that on the other hand, it will be realised on the side of the ISTNH as a profit, i.e. state revenue. After all the tasks carried out for the Singapore office, the State budget will receive revenue from the ISTNH and through it. Orders arrive from the Singapore office to the SZTNH, and the SZTNH completes the SZTNH to the Singapore office after a professional inspection, with only the SZNH connected with it. HIPAvilon Kft. 100% owned by the Hungarian State, as can be verified from the public register. The ownership rights and obligations of the Hungarian State over the property are exercised and fulfilled by the SZTNH on the basis of a mandate agreement with Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that HIPAvilon Nonprofit Kft. a non-profit organisation, the result of the company cannot be divided, so it cannot be placed in private pockets by such means. The State Audit Office and the Government Audit Office regularly monitor the SZTNH. The findings of the SAO audit in 2014 are not yet known to the Ministry of Justice, but we trust that, as in previous years, the audit of the State Audit Office will be a reassuring result. Honourable Congressman, So I'm asking you to put aside your political accusations. The leaders of the SZNH - or formerly known as the Patent Office - are the same ones who were appointed during your government. They are doing their job with professional satisfaction, so both as a personal decision of the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice and the Ministry of Justice agreed to the appointment of the President of the SZTNH. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I have really said some very serious things here. In addition, you received this question in writing weeks ago, and I would have expected you to give an honest answer here to resolve any doubt. This kft. was founded in 2011. It has been involved in the Singapore business since 2013. You're saying there's a capacity problem. In 2014, there were 619 patent applications for 50 patent examiners. This means two working days a month for the examiners. There are no capacity problems. Here you should have clarified how much money from that HUF 330 million will be returned to the employees, their managers and their clientele on the basis of consultancy contracts or an.. You didn't say you didn't have one, you didn't want to tell me. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The amount of money we're talking about. I have to say, you didn't protect this company, and I'm afraid it's not because it's a fidesz money laundromat. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-104	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 38 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Dear Parliament, It's 16:00, 14 minutes, we're at the end of the interpellation period. Now we move on to immediate questions. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Did you really decide? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In recent days, the details published in the book of the former US Ambassador, which quote the sentences of the then Minister for Development, Mrs Lászlón Németh, that she agreed with you every Wednesday on public procurement in Hungary, and that narrowly decided which improvements should be implemented and which did not. You have acknowledged in a statement that this has happened and is still happening to this day. You think it's all right and legal, because you've only decided on the order and order of the tenders and the amount that can be used, never the future winner. Sure. For example, while Lajos Simicska was your personal good friend and the most important economic background of Fidesz, in a few years he has been modestly estimated to have won more than HUF 300 billion in these public procurements. It must also be a coincidence that since Lajos Simicska sent you to warmer climates, he suddenly does not win in public procurement, but instead new stars rise from your circle of friends. And it can only be by chance that these public procurements are written in the first place in such a way that, apart from the companies that have finally been announced as winners, no one else is able to run on them. The hardworking little people, you know, seeing the news about this, they just wave at me that they're scoundrels. Prime Minister, help me clear up this somma opinion and answer my questions. Have you personally participated in the small-scale meetings of the development cabinet? Have you personally decided on the applications to be published and their amounts? Have you personally participated in the decision to set up the investment on the M4 motorway since then? And was it there last December when the budget for this was increased by 20 percent when it was clear that the EU was not going to finance this far-fetched investment? Have you been informed if one of your friends, say, has won the competitions you have decided, only one of the executives who regularly appear with you in the VIP box in Felcsút? Please respond. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-26-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in a two-minute timeframe. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-05-26-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, I attend every meeting of the development cabinet. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Uproar and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Márta Demeter: Admission.]]
u2015-05-26-108	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Here you go. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Mr President should warn the Prime Minister!]]
u2015-05-26-109	Thank you very much. Prime Minister's rating himself; I thought that he would be able and dared to answer these simple questions fairly. If it didn't work out, I might be able to get your attention. Prime Minister, there are a few more questions that I would like you to answer. What about the dispersal of national parks? What about blacking out the tramps? What about the Tiborcz tract, the family street lighting business, the nation's gas mechanic getting rich? Who's Árpád Habony? Where did you get your fortune, Prime Minister? How much more money do you want to play to Andy Vajna with the public money? When are we gonna find out what happened in Rogán's downtown real estate crisis? What else must Minister Fazekas and Peter Szijjártó do to replace them and be held accountable for what they have done in the last six months and for what has been made public? Why do people spend their tax dollars on stadiums when health and education are in ruins? May I continue to ask the question, Prime Minister, everyone knows that you just have to answer one question: how long can Parliament and this whole country be seen as stupid without consequences? Please answer the question.
u2015-05-26-110	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-05-26-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you'll allow me, I suggest we distinguish provocation from the question. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is a time of questions, I am happy to answer any sensible questions; I do not sit up for provocations. As far as the specific issue is concerned, the rules of operation of the National Development Government Committee are governed by a public regulation, anyone can read it, even the Member of Parliament, so that he can spare himself from talking nonsense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP: Insolentness.]]
u2015-05-26-112	Thank you very much. I would like to warn Mr Gábor István Harangozó that he yelled at me and I would like to inform him that I believe that the Prime Minister's response was clear and clear. [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Bell Clap: Bravo!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, his group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what should our debate be about with the European Union? It's an address. Gábor Vona, the leader of the faction, has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-113	Mr. Prime Minister, You have a specific debate strategy on immediate questions, which seems to stand up, raises a clear question, and then you stand up and answer a question that has not been answered. This has been the case among us many times on the issue of the European Union. Not only between us personally, but also between my fellow parties and you, when we raised the amendment of the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, several times already, and the possibility of issuing a referendum, because we believe that the amendment of the Treaty of Accession is necessary for the recovery of the Hungarian economy, and because we believe that the publication of a referendum is legitimate, since so many years have passed since 2004 that Hungarian society has a legitimate and real experience of the European Union. [[16.20]] The reason why I am bringing this to Parliament and to you again is because there has been a change, and not just the two of us will be talking about it, since David Cameron, re-elected Prime Minister of Great Britain, said the same thing. He said the same word for word that we have been saying for years, that is, that Britain wants to amend the Treaty of Accession and to issue a referendum on its membership in the European Union. I think it is important that David Cameron can be an ad hoc ally on the issue of immigration - although I am uncertain about how these positions can be agreed - but rather on this issue we should hold on to Britain and David Cameron and form an alliance with him, because the amendment of the Accession Treaty is therefore possible. In fact, I think that it is not only possible, but that we must discuss it here in Parliament. As Britain has drawn up its thirty points, so we Hungarian Members of Parliament have a responsibility to put together any twenty-thirty points of our own, where we would like to amend the Treaty of Accession. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you not to confront or argue with the European Union on the death penalty, not on immigration, because it is in Hungary's interest to amend the Treaty of Accession. So my question is whether you consider it important and necessary, Prime Minister, to amend our Treaty of Accession to the European Union. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-05-26-115	Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, These are important details, but let's not pretend we don't see it clearly on the field. We know very well that we are talking about two different positions of two parties. You can hide behind a referendum initiative, which, to my knowledge, the Constitution does not allow in the case of international treaties, but let us put this in parentheses, this would be just a simple constitutional violation proposal, and we can go beyond that, but that is not the point. The point is that Jobbik has made it very clear several times: it wants us to quit the European Union and quit NATO. You would like Hungary not to be a member of the European Union and not a member of NATO. There's no point in smearing this question, and we all know that you've always represented it. On the other hand, although we have a number of critical comments on both the European Union and NATO, our position is that Hungary and the Hungarian people have an interest in staying in the European Union and remaining members of NATO. We will not be able to resolve this difference with any debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-116	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-117	It's a rare moment when a man's debate partner will back you up in a minute. That's what I'm talking about, Prime Minister. How many times have I talked about leaving the European Union in my question? Not once! I didn't say that once, just like we didn't say it before. [[Deficiencies and noise on the pro-government side.]] We talked about amending the Treaty of Accession and a referendum. And I will continue to ask you, Prime Minister, to answer the question whether you consider it important that the Treaty of Accession be amended or not. Don't talk about anything else, that's my question. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-118	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister.
u2015-05-26-119	I'm sorry to notice that the president of Jobbik has lost his nerve. The thing is, you want to quit and move out of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to something, it makes sense to argue about it. Our position is clear, we want Hungary to remain a member of the European Union and NATO. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member András Schiffer, the group leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does there exist a double standard? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Last week, as you said earlier, you admitted that you and Mrs Lászlón Németh regularly discussed various major calls for proposals. That's a statement. The second statement was made by Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó in October 2012 when he said that the government decided to provide the municipalities with HUF 5 billion from EU funds - this amount later increased - in order to replace the public lighting for energy-saving LED lamps. After that, a company named Elios, whose owner happens to belong to your family - this company started in 2009 - has won 19 public lighting tenders since 2010, in eight cases without an opponent. He's won 71 percent of the 5,7 billion he's given so far. In each of these applications, however, it is common that very strict conditions have been imposed, large amounts of references have been prescribed, only LED lamp references have been accepted and various other funny conditions have been imposed, which, according to the experts, is completely unjustified. It was a direct confession to the Prime Minister's Office that he rejected, for example, the Jászberény lamp body modernisation tender, saying that this would unduly reduce competition. But the problem, Prime Minister, is that the Jászberény tender had almost the same prints as any other. In addition, in four cases - in which we also filed a complaint - Elios' interests were on the bidder's side as the determinants of the technical content. Here's my next question. Prime Minister, did you decide to open a tender that Elios later won, or to publish the minutes of the development cabinet meetings? Why didn't you vote in favour of the LMP's motion not to be on the basis of a merger or bidder's side, and it happens that the prime minister's family members are not allowed to participate in such major national applications? Does the Prime Minister consider that the development of the domestic SME sector is being developed if the state issues proposals to which only one company can meet, rather than many small domestic businesses? Finally, I would like to ask you if you do not consider it prohibited party financing if your family interests win public procurement. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-122	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-05-26-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm getting used to being attacked by my ten-year prime minister when my family members are attacked. This has become a part of my life. During my 25-year representation, I also learned that business issues, debates and interests are hardly in the Chamber of Parliament. Business disputes must be decided in business and not in politics. For my part, therefore, I would just like to make a point of principle and a point of principle. My position is that no one can take advantage of it or suffer disadvantage because of its relations, origin or political views. I expect this principle, this principle, to be respected by all members of the government. Just because these attacks are constantly coming back, I have instructed the Minister of National Development, who is responsible for public companies at a good time, to order any company who appears there, referring to me or my family, to be expelled immediately. That's all I can do right now. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Schiffer has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, So there were people who referred to you before? But I'd like to reverse the question. Prime Minister, it is very right that we are trying to set standards of principle. But really try to answer the question clearly: do you agree - this is not just about you - that, where appropriate, the mayor's family will be allowed to enter in a municipal tender when the mayor is the author? It's not just about you, Prime Minister. I think that it is unworthy for the whole country to simply cast its shadow on the current Hungarian Prime Minister, that state tenders, which you may decide to issue, happen to happen in the interests of your interests or family members. So I would like a clear answer on the question of whether it supports the conflict of interest rules that we have placed on Parliament's table and which would clearly and clearly exclude such situations not only for you but also for the whole country and, of course, for the government. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute answer, Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-127	I have supported and continue to support it, and this is also a timely one, since a new law on public procurement is coming before the House. If you wish to introduce such rules within the framework of this, I will not oppose it. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, I have to add, as we have heard from our fellow Member Schiffer, that in 25 years, as well as in the last five years, hundreds of people have visited the various steps of the state administration, regularly referring to one of the ministers and the Prime Minister and his environment. Hundreds of times! [[16.30]] There's nothing else we can do about it. These people must always be expelled. All government decisions should be subject to the possibility of redress and an overview should be made possible. That's the way it is right now. Moreover, unfortunately, we have to live with the fact that the world is full of unworthy nonsense, and there is nothing to be done about it; it has to be maintained, serenely and calmly. I'm looking forward to your questions next week. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Pósán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Who has been harmed by the Corvinus letter counterfeiting scandal? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is personally expecting an answer from the Minister. [[For signal:]] Congressman tells me that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On an Internet portal, news was released that the government was cutting up Corvinus University, several majors were discontinued, the university building in Buda was sold, and the students were dispersed in the country. The news was taken over by a number of news portals, and the majority of opposition parties immediately struck it, and at Corvinus they held a forum for all students and workers and made a petition. At the height of the excitement, it turned out to be a fake letter that caused the rumor. Dear Secretary of State, Have the organizers and conveners at Corvinus University acted as responsible leaders when they were not convinced of the authenticity of the letter in question? How is it possible that the header and the Corvinus Rector's Office of Public Education Programs and Relations did not immediately become suspicious? The forged letter refers to an agreement of December 2014. All responsible leaders should at least know what kind of agreements the university has, especially with the government. Why didn't the university officials know there was such an agreement? And if they knew it didn't exist, why did they decide to hold the forum? Will there be any personal consequences of such leadership irresponsibleness? Who, to whom, has been harmed by the spread of rumors during the forgery of the authentic instrument in connection with Corvinus University? What steps did the wallet take in the letter tampering case? I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, the Secretary of State of the EMMI. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-26-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, With regard to this Corvinus letter counterfeiting case, one may first comment that this differs from the other false accusations against the government in so far as the truth was revealed here within a very short time, in 2-3 days. Turns out this letter is a fake. And it turns out that those who built their political communication on this letter - because it spread like wildfire on the Internet, because it contained the content that some opposition groups wanted to read, that Corvinus University would be dismembered, that there would be cuts here, and they referred to it on Internet portals and press conferences - well, these people, these politicians, of course, must follow the public and withdraw these statements. The link between the two letters, the original letter and the forged letter, is quite clear. An earlier official EMMI letter of 14 May was forged by the creators of the forgery. [[He's showing me both letters.]] They changed the middle part, left the header and the signature, the stamp section, and placed a false content between the two, in which they fictitiously informed the Corvinus University leadership to begin preparations for the restructuring and dismembering of the university. It is a good description of today's political dialogue, and it is a good description of today's political toolbox, that some people are not expensive, but, let's just say, commit a crime, as it is a forgery of documents. The Ministry of Human Resources has therefore also filed a complaint with the V. District Police Department and we are awaiting investigation by the investigating authorities. Because some people even commit a crime to make the government look untrue, and to base such accusations. It is very difficult to discuss the future if our debate partners, in the meantime, fake letters against the EMMI. This was a conscious and deliberate crime on their part, and it shows that, unfortunately, some have crossed a line and even committed crimes in order to put the government out of business. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Pósán. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I think, in the case of an institution such as a large university, whether it is Corvinus or any other, if there is an e-mail or news portal, a news portal whose content must at first raise suspicion, every responsible leader, every responsible institution will then be sure of the content of a letter. Consequently, we must say that there were people at Corvinus University - who, I don't know; hopefully, the investigation will find out - who acted irresponsiblely, did not act as a responsible leader, and, just before the exam period, they wanted to create serious tension during the recruitment procedures. I think this goes beyond the question of a simple prank, it's a very serious matter, and we need to investigate it very seriously. I'm looking forward to the results of the investigation myself. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-26-135	Thank you very much for the floor. The development of a strategy entitled "Training in higher education" was fully publicised. We posted this document on the Internet, where everyone could discuss it, in a consensus with the Hungarian Rector Conference, with the round table of higher education, with the main professional representatives, we were able to accept it in consensus, and every step of the government according to this document published months ago. Therefore, you are right, Mr President, that anyone who receives a letter referring to secret negotiations should have reason to believe that this is not a real letter. Many were probably irresponsible when they sat up for this forgery. They should have noticed that the State Secretary for Public Education does not write in higher education matters, but does do so in public education matters. So many did not notice any more errors in this letter when they became part of this mood. Of course, a lesson for everyone in this case is not to sit up and accept such rumors. What they are doing orally, unfortunately, is more difficult to deny, but what has been distributed in writing and shared on the Internet by thousands in hours, we have been able to deny in two days. Let's hope the law enforcement authorities also find out who it was in their interest to instigate these groups to put this letter on the Internet, on more blogs and on Facebook, and thus create a false impression of the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-136	Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. This did not last long. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, According to the MVM Regulation 26/2015, an aid application could have been submitted for gardening machinery investments from 18 May 2015 to resource exhaustion, but not later than 1 June 2015. The grant amounts to HUF 10 billion, of which at least 50 per cent is low value machine investment, up to HUF 35 million per investment cost per application. However, during the period of submission of the low value machine investment, there was some error, as this tender was open not only for two weeks, but also from 8 a.m. to 2 a.m. on May 18, 2015, and after 10 a.m., this tender window had to be closed as the source ran out. The explanation for this is very simple. The list of eligible gardening machinery is set out in the Annex to that Regulation, however, in Annex 19/2015. The managing authority's communication extended this group and included telescopic loaders for the eligible group of gardening machinery, which are basically or could be said to be used almost exclusively in arable crops and livestock production and have a value of tens of millions. These things have turned out strangely. I would like to ask you, Minister, what lobbying interests stood behind the fact that at the expense of small gardening machines such machines should be added to the support line. And according to our information, a large machine dealer had already made a significant number of these machines in the last week. I would like to ask, Minister, what will happen now to farmers who want to apply for a small gardening machine, so what will happen to farmers who are involved in fruit and vegetable production, who have stayed on their feet and probably did not have access to machinery as a result of a fidesz puppy. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-26-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister. [[16.40]]
u2015-05-26-139	Honourable Congressman, Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, I consider the Member's question to be very useful, since it promotes information. Especially your information, Mr President, because if you take the trouble and are more involved in public affairs, you should know that rural development subsidies belong to the Prime Minister's Office, an independent Secretary of State will deal with these important grants. So, in fact, if you turn to them, you can obviously get a full-blown answer. I do not want to advance this answer in any way, but I suggest that you contact the Prime Minister's Office in the future, if you have such and similar questions in connection with the otherwise good number of agricultural subsidies, since you have 60-70 rural development support. What is involved is the knowledge of the FM and, as far as I know, that a residual framework for the previous EU agricultural support cycle has been laid down by the Prime Minister's Office. That's what the applications came for. The machine you refer to can be used for gardening works in the same way as other gardening machines can usually be used for agricultural work. So there's no need to suspect anything more complicated than conspiracy theories. It is also not uncommon for machine dealers to look forward to these applications, since usually a social consultation with farmers and consultation with organisations representing farmers prevents us from using which agricultural aid for what purpose. So I suggest that if you need more information, you should be informed at the Prime Minister's Office. And with regard to the government structure, it's okay to read the papers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-26-140	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Zsolt Legény, is the subject of the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-141	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't come to the Minister for nothing. I am aware of the structure of the government, but it now confirms to me that, although we look forward to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán changing his government, we believe that you will be the first person to do so at the expense of it. I came to you, Minister, precisely because I hoped the Prime Minister's Office would ask the Prime Minister Mr President, as you said, we are talking about the balance between 2007 and 13. This area belonged to you at the time. Therefore, I thought that perhaps the Prime Minister's Office would take advantage of your professional competence and ask you how this proposal should be put out. All in all, the only thing that matters is that the framework that should have been open for two weeks was open for about two hours. We're out of money. Some kind of lobbyist brought these machines in. I'm sorry, you're accusing me of incompetence, and I'm not doing that to you, but I'm interested in how telescopic loaders can be used in the field of vegetable-fruit retail and vegetable-fruit production. And by the way, I'd like to ask you again what happens to the vegetable-fruit growers that are left on the hop. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-142	Thank you very much. Minister Sándor Fazekas is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-05-26-143	Honourable Congressman, Fact and truth, I don't want to go to anyone's expense - that and other linguistic findings have come from you. I think this will be a pleasant topic for those who are commenting on this debate today. I do not want to give a separate opinion on the issues of deep professionalism, but you have just said that the fruit and vegetable retailers will also be harmed by this agricultural support. This aid can be used by fruit and vegetables producers. There have been several proposals for rural development in recent years. There were tens of billions of HUF in two or three rounds for gardening support, and there will be anyway. I've already told you about the different types of machines. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Answer the question!]] My answer. So I trust that you will read more carefully not only the press or the laws, but also the applications in the future. Ladies and Gentlemen, The machine catalogue annex of such a proposal is a hundred-page book size, since there are a wide variety of machines that can be used in a given agricultural area. That's true in this case, too. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-26-144	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What has changed? It's an address. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In November 2012, I came to you with an immediate question on the need for a debate on the death penalty. At the time, we thought that this debate on a political stage was the zeroth step to kidneyize it. You replied to me then, and I quote literally the essential part:. When Hungary joined the European Union, we also adopted a rule of Community law that does not allow the introduction of the death penalty in EU Member States. Well, Prime Minister, as I have already said, we did not ask for its introduction, and we did not mean it, but specifically the debate on the death penalty, which would have allowed us to know the pro and versus arguments. In view of the fact that in recent weeks you have put faith in numerous forums in Hungary and in Strasbourg in a very sharp debate, if I may put it this way, the need to debate the death penalty, which is why I am turning to you again. If it is based on the fact that the frequency of crimes, the brutality of anti-life crimes, has not changed in the last two, two and a half years, then I would respectfully ask you, depending on the change in your position, what has changed then. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-26-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2015-05-26-147	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish I could answer with one sentence. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You do.]] I could say that I have complied with my fellow Member's request, but I do think that the matter is more serious than we are dealing with it with this short sentence. I'd like to offer you two things. One is that the brutal robbery that killed a 20 - year - old girl for a few thousand forints caused national outrage and emotional emotion. I think in every case like this, the question of whether the death penalty has been dealt with well enough and closed quite well will come to light in every such brutal, upsetting public life. But there is also one other thing I would like to suggest to you, and it is related to what I gave you in response in 2012. Somehow he did not get the attention of the public, but what happened was that Brussels attacked the actual life sentence. So today it seems that Brussels wants to force us to take the actual life sentence, the actual life sentence, out of the Hungarian legal order. This is the subject of negotiations. This would mean that if Brussels could force us to have multiple relapses, likely multiple manslaughter convictions, people who could be considered killers, we should send them back to society at some point, this is a new situation. Therefore, I suggest that we not defend ourselves, but move forward. So if Brussels wants to take away the actual life sentence from us, then we have to answer that by saying it's okay, but then let's discuss the death penalty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Jesus Christ! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-26-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad to hear that you have complied with our request. I would like to say that this is not the case, since we initiated a parliamentary debate day roughly three weeks ago, as we did two years ago. And the truth is that the Fidesz faction alone did not take a stand with either a yes or a no. Therefore, given the fact that you have now ensured the correctness and necessity of the debate, I will now give you this empty, unsigned, debate-starting motion for a debate day, and I would ask you to be the first [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] who signs this initiative from the lines of Fidesz-KDNP. I trust your fellow factions will follow you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-26-150	Thank you very much. I ask you, Congressman, to do this only after the Prime Minister's one-minute rejoinder has been delivered. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Of course!]]
u2015-05-26-151	The faction is ready to discuss your proposal. My fellow Members did not put this on the agenda, and I did not support it either, because we ourselves are divided on this issue. So before we come to a parliamentary debate, I think that everything has the right and sensible order before we come to a parliamentary debate, these debates should be held in our own circles. I do not want to deny the fact that in the Fidesz-Christian Democratic People's Party's joint large political camp, this debate has revealed significant differences of opinion. This debate will continue for a long time. With sufficient calmness and calmness, and, in fact, with due dignity, I propose to do so. Parliament's debate may not be the right first step. [[16.50]] In any case, this will be a long debate, but I would like to reiterate my commitment and my conviction here that it is the duty of the Hungarian State to protect innocent victims in all circumstances. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Ádám Mirkóczki gives the questionnaire to Viktor Orbán.]]
u2015-05-26-152	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. What does the government do for the security of our country? It's an address. It is for Congressman Mátyás Firtl. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would ask my fellow Members to make sure that their movements do not prevent the issue from being made clear and clear. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-153	Mr President, Dear Minister, The security environment determining Hungary's security threat has been continuously and rapidly changing over the past period. Our security environment has changed in a direction that we are able to respond adequately thanks to our preparedness, given that we are in possession of situation awareness and assessment, increased attention and immediate action, including immediate solutions. This is important because, in recent years, the international security environment has deteriorated significantly compared to the previous ones. The refugee flows from the Middle East and North Africa have put enormous migratory pressure on Europe's eastern and southern countries, and this is an increasing challenge for Western countries as well. In the southern villages of Hungary, in January this year, thousands of people crossed the border illegally, and residents of the eastern border area can see directly the difficulties they face on the Ukrainian side of the border. The instability caused by the Arab Spring was conducive to extreme advance, and terrorists proclaiming the ideas of Islamic radicalism created their own state. In the Middle East, but above all in Iraq and Syria, the strengthened ISIS has created a direct security and human rights crisis and its expansion is a threat to the international community. On 15 April 2015, the Parliament decided to send up to 150 soldiers to fight the terrorist organization Islamic State to the training centre in Erbil, Iraq. Dear Minister, Last week we remembered the birth of the Hungarian Army, celebrating the day of defence, remembering that on 21 May 1849 at the end of the spring campaign, the Hungarian soldiers managed to recover the Buda Castle after three weeks of siege. I respectfully ask Minister: what does the Hungarian Government do for the security of our country, and is this reflected in the planned budget of the Hungarian defence next year? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister for Defence Csaba Hende. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-05-26-155	Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The change in our security environment, let us say, the deterioration - the rise of the terrorist organization called the Islamic State and the crisis in Ukraine in particular - has thoroughly rewritten not only Hungary but the plans of NATO as a whole over the past year and a half. As has already been said by the Prime Minister here today, our country is a committed member of the alliance and we are doing our part in all aspects of the joint effort. Now, after years of stagnation, in parallel with the strengthening of international challenges and a spectacular improvement in the performance of the Hungarian economy, the time has come to dynamically increase the resources for defence. This year, so in 2015 we increased the defence budget by more than 8 percent. I would point out to you and all our students that this is perhaps even more in real terms, because there is deflation, i.e. the forint, our money is not deteriorating, but it is improving, its value is increasing, so an 8 percent nominal increase in real terms means even more. The government has undertaken to increase the defence budget by 0.1 per cent of gross national product year from 2016. In line with this commitment, the 2016 budget appropriation, which the Honourable Parliament will soon start to negotiate, will increase by around 22 percent, approximately HUF 50 billion, compared to this year's increase in 2015 and thus close to HUF 300 billion. We will spend the increased amount carefully and inexpensively, but I will discuss this in the next minute. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-156	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-157	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think it is absolutely important and we are pleased to note that military budget expenditures are increasing to this extent, as it is very important for us, too, that in the military missions in which we have already participated and the recognition of the Hungarian Defence Forces has been increased in the past period, it is all the more important that we now participate in this particular mission in Iraq, and that it is also important for us, in the coming period, that the government and the military leadership - with the Minister at the forefront - can also ensure that these military engagements are indeed engaged in budgeted soldiers with the right background; and that we can only say that soldiers who have so far gained great recognition within the NATO community should participate in the missions. We are confident that in the future we will fulfil our commitments in NATO from spending on the military budget, and that our activities in international engagement will indeed further enhance the reputation of our soldiers. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-05-26-159	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, In the increased and upcoming years, we hope to spend a lot of money on the increased defence budget as planned, first of all on the most important thing, man, because the skills of an army are most basically determined by the skills of the soldiers serving in it, so here the inn is not a cheap slogan that the most important thing is man. You can buy a gun at any time, that's money, but you can't take a well-trained and committed soldier off the shelf at any time. Therefore, as the first step of the dynamically increasing budget, until 2019 we will increase the salary of our soldiers by about 50 percent, we will improve our papal base, but of course the increased budget will provide cover for the involvement of the Islamic State in the costs of the European Union's fight group set up by the Visegrád Four. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, of course, for various military technology development programmes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-160	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why is there no solution to the problem that, in a special situation, children between the ages of 5 and 6 cannot be asked for a kindergarten discharge from September? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts or waits for the Minister.
u2015-05-26-161	Mr President, I have asked the Secretary of State this question twice or three times, I have not received an answer, and I would like to wait for Minister with the answer.
u2015-05-26-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will inform both you and the Honourable Parliament that the Minister must answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, also wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what is the government planning with the Corvinus University and the Buda Arboretum? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, has been asked to answer for his urgent public service. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, and Congressman. - I'm sorry. [[17.00]]
u2015-05-26-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The dismemberment of Corvinus University and the sale of the Buda Arboretum would be a huge loss to gardening education. Food science, gardening and landscape building training has more than 160 years of history in Hungary. It was a long time since 1853, when a private school, which was then considered a very modern initiative, became a state institution from 1880, and then it was established as an important station in 1968, and became a University of Gardening. The institution won its final form in the early 2000s when it joined the Budapest University of Economics and Public Administration. From 1 September 2004, the Faculty of Gardening Sciences, the Faculty of Food Sciences and the Faculty of Landscape Architecture became the university faculties of the Buda Campus of the Corvinus University of Budapest. As a result of a possible restructuring, the training of the Buda faculties would fall, losing their students, teachers, research and innovation base. The future of individual and market-leading training would be completely uncertain. An irreplaceable loss would be the closure and sale of the Buda Arboretum, which currently provides an open-air educational site for two faculties, the exceptionally rich plant gene bank, arboretum and botanical garden with nearly five thousand lots. It's priceless. Dear Secretary of State, What is the government planning with Corvinus University and the Buda Arboretum? You're not gonna reorganize these arms without the permission of the university, are you? You're not gonna sell the 126-year arboretum, are you? Will the government protect invaluable natural values, guarantee the preservation of the arboretum? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-05-26-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then we now have Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will give the answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-26-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know what the congressman is basing these statements on. Here you have listed various facts. As has already been said today and has been said before, the change of career in higher education has been fully developed in the public interest, with the Rector's Conference, the HÖOK, in the round table of higher education, with all the relevant actors accepted by the government, and everyone could comment, you could comment, you could know, perhaps you were more accepting, and I almost say that you supported this strategy in the opposition benches. We're gonna do what's in it, and we're not gonna do anything that's not in it. I ask the Member not to sit down on such false letters as the forgery of the letter to the Independent Student Parliament in this case, which has been rolled around in countless places on the Internet. Don't start with these when your government criticism is being formulated. You know very well that in this case, the police must now investigate and not explain to pro-government politicians, because it turns out that this letter is a complete forgery. What is written in the strategy will be carried out by us, but nothing else, so such accusations should not be made here in Parliament or elsewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-167	Dear Secretary of State, I didn't get an answer to that question. The higher education strategy does not affect the question of what will happen to Corvinus University and this Buda Arboretum. This letter, which he warned us against, we did not sit down, was made public long before this letter was published that they were planning something about Corvinus University. It is enough to mention the student-educator forum that László Palkovics, State Secretary of Higher Education, could not go to last Wednesday, but he said that there is nothing to talk about for the time being, the transformation will not be in a state until 2-3 weeks before they can be discussed. So we weren't based on a letter. In connection with the Buda Arboretum, it occurred to me that someone here might have had a hard time with this, that they might be off-shore riders again in the background. But, Mr Secretary of State, with one sentence, you can resolve these doubts, which have been said to be a tension between the actors of higher education, and similar. Say that this institution will not be transformed, that this arboretum will not be sold!
u2015-05-26-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will be given the opportunity.
u2015-05-26-169	The arboretum is not in any kind of danger, as I have told you, that all decisions are made in full public, that there are no deals in back, locked rooms, just like they have never been before. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Are you selling or not selling?]] In all cases, the Secretary of State for Higher Education first involved the stakeholders in a consultation and then made all kinds of decisions. It will be no different now, and we will follow this procedure, we will do everything publicly, we will proceed according to the strategy, and I ask the Member not to sit up for any such rumour. If you look back at this speech in two years' time, you might say, well, maybe you shouldn't have done that, because without any real basis, just because you've heard someone say something about it, I think it's irresponsible to make such serious accusations, and it doesn't sound like a well-founded politician trying to make a mood here based on the headlines of Internet press. Congressman! In this, as in everything else, we will take decisions in the future by consensus and in consultation with the stakeholders in the sector concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How many social workers are affected by the salary supplement paid from 1 July? It's an address. [[Lajos Korózs: 65,000 yes and 27,000 not.]] Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to.
u2015-05-26-171	Yeah.
u2015-05-26-172	The Member accepts the person of the respondents, so Mr Sándor Kovács has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-173	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think social work is an extremely important value-creating activity of social division. Therefore, it is essential to appreciate the workers here at both moral and material levels. Doing things around the beneficiaries is a major physical and emotional task, which is done every day, every hour of the year, by about 93,000 professionals working in the sector. As a first step in the proper financial appreciation of this victimous work, the social sector wage replacement was introduced on 1 January 2014. This is the XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants. on the implementation of Act No 257/2000 in the social and child welfare and child protection sectors. has been introduced under a government decree as a mandatory surrogate for social, child welfare and child protection institutions. The allowance covers both professional and technical workers. The percentage of the wage supplement was between HUF 6 thousand and HUF 17 200 gross, based on the employee's payment department and step. This measure has not solved the problem yet, but it shows our commitment, our willingness to do so in order to improve the situation of workers in the profession. This willing to do is also essential, because the situation is now so worrying that not only foreign countries are sucking away our well-trained professionals, but also Hungarian health and public education institutions. There, a specialist with the same qualifications earns much more. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How many social workers are affected, Mr. Secretary of State, by the salary supplement to be paid from 1 July? In which area of the social sector does the salary supplement cover workers? In addition, what measures can help their activities in the area? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At its meeting on 20 May, the government dealt with this issue, as a wage tension developed within the social sector, since many who were in the lower part of the pay table did not differ much from those who worked on the social career with a higher degree or longer. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] It is also an exhausting effect that the Member referred to, which is why the government decided to transfer HUF 7.6 billion to the wage increases to be paid from 1 July this year. This means that it will be easier for 65,000 people to make a living from 1 July. This could amount to HUF 16,000 gross, if applicable. And as I said, this will be primarily for those who have worked longer in the social sphere and who have a higher education. Discussions with professional organisations started last Friday on the exact details and will continue this week. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think that 65,000 people will surely feel the 16,000-forint average wage increase they will receive as a salary supplement. And while it may not be appropriate to set your own example, as a social worker, let me also say that coming from such a sphere, I think that it is really an appreciation and a very important appreciation for all the employees in this sphere, and I hope that if I go back to my constituency and people ask me, then I can give these answers a little comfort to colleagues. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[17.10]]
u2015-05-26-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-179	Thank you very much. We also hope that this kind of professional strength will strengthen these people, doing superhuman work compared to what we pay them. Even the wage bonus paid over the last three years, the minimum wage increase and this kind of sectoral wage supplement, which is 60 billion HUF extra support compared to the income weight and wage weight of 3-4 years ago, is high, but obviously this will be further increased, which will be a question of later times. But we trust that experience and knowledge will be properly appreciated, and these people will also feel that they have had such a share of the extra economic performance.
u2015-05-26-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. scapegoat training on Roma? It's an address. Mr László Teleki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In your view, Hungary cannot accept economic refugees just because it is necessary to ensure that 8 000 Gypsies are employed. I find it regrettable that the Fidesz government's failure to hide behind false propaganda, with a double speech, has been flogged, and the gypsy card has been drawn up again, thus creating another conflict and digging trenches between social groups. It is a shame that they want to confront Roma affairs with refugees, and thus push the Roma into the role of scapegoat at European level! Minister, the least you can do is apologize for your statement, just as Minister Zoltán Balog did a few days ago for the Roma Holocaust. This is dictated by morals and honor and respect, the service to which you swore. Dear Minister, I would ask what the Fidesz-KDNP government has done over the last five years for the real social integration of the Roma, for example, where is the 100,000 jobs that their government has promised together with Flórian Farkas, because you see only the employment potential of the Roma in public work, with which, let's face it, you can only cosmetics statistical data. Do you think that public work is the only major employment opportunity in the case of Gypsyászg in Hungary? What would you like to do in order to eliminate child hunger, child poverty, I could ask Minister, because if you answer these questions, then we can see that it is worth dealing with the issue that is intended for the Roma and not drawing cards that you are actually digging the trenches with every day and giving you a force for stigmatisation in Hungary to be even greater with regard to the Roma. Therefore, I think, Minister, that today you should say open and honest sentences in saying that the statement you made, that you thought and why you thought so, because I think that you should reassure the Roma and Hungarian society in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-26-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister László Trócsányi. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-05-26-183	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I tell you frankly that I have a rather vivid imagination, but in my dream I didn't think it was because I am speaking for the sake of social inclusion of the Roma population that, for the first time in my life - and I hope for the last time - some politicians should consider me a racist - not you, Congressman, of course - and some representatives of the media. As I did in my statement, I would like most definitely to reject racist accusations. I have always given it to my honor, and I wish to continue to give it, of course, in the future. I am proud that the European Roma framework strategy was adopted during the Hungarian EU Presidency. As ambassador, I have tried to present the life and problems of Roma in Hungary at several events. Today, the estimated number of Roma in Europe is 10-12 million. From this, it must be said that there are about 700-800 thousand people living in Hungary. However, allow me to quote the European framework strategy on Roma. The social economic situation of Roma is generally worse than that of members of a majority society, often even those belonging to a national minority or immigrants. The current economic and social crisis enhances the structural problems associated with Roma inclusion. For my part, therefore, I wanted to emphasise that the Roma issue must be a priority that must also be enforced against economic immigrants, because it is a fundamental issue for Eastern Central Europe, and this is also a European Roma framework strategy that has been well described. I believe that the government is aware of this and is trying to make every effort to ensure that the Roma catch-up takes place. As Minister of Justice, I am trying to give scholarships so that anyone who goes to law school can learn, for example, Roma young people can study in law school. So we're doing everything we can. However, economic asylum and economic policy, immigration policy, must fall within national competence. In my view, therefore, I would like to emphasise that the Roma are not scapegoats, but members of the Hungarian society for whom we are jointly responsible, and that poverty, in which the Roma are not the only ones living, is our joint responsibility. I would like to mention that this is why the government and myself are working. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-184	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-185	Thank you very much. Minister, I think that the task you have been assigned and taken on cannot allow you to speak for the first time and for the last time in such matters, because I think it is important in your work to be involved in the Roma issue that you should represent internationally or at home. Your name is well known internationally and internationally, so that's why you can't do what you said. And the other is that I think that it is impossible to hide behind what the European Roma framework strategy means and what it contains, because the fact that there is something written is one thing, but what is being implemented is another thing. Believe me, walking around the countryside, I see that the Roma are not sufficiently discharged from employment or with funds that should be devoted to healing, education and housing. Therefore, I think that we should not talk in riddles when we are talking about Roma, but we must fill this programme with real content. The Minister didn't exactly answer that you were not a racist on this issue, as he said. I don't think it is, either, but we can't see clearly from your answer whether what you said is separated from what you said in those three or four sentences. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary will take the floor for a moment. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-187	Honourable Congressman, I believe that the Government's Roma policy and Minister Balog's activities are exemplary and well-known in this respect. I think that the result that we have achieved is that we have far better results in terms of employment, and not in aid, the government sees the problems of Roma catching up, but in the right to work, the implementation of social issues, education, I think that is the most important. For my part, I do not feel that I should be separated from anything, because I wanted to say something about Roma social inclusion, and that is why I want to speak in the future. Let me show you, I'm very proud of this medal. [[He's showing it to me.]] I have received it from Roma leaders whose word I give and who are my friends, and I believe that my cooperation with them has always been good. And maybe watch my speech on Pharrajimos Memorial Day at Castle Palace last year. I think that I will then have to reject any accusations that have affected my person on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-188	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The hour of immediate questioning is over. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on certain measures on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016 H/4216. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-189	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, The essential element of our motion is, among other things, the need to correct the aid system, as many forms of support that existed in the past cease to exist on 1 March. Another important element is the increase in the pension minimum, which has been unchanged for years. It is well known to my fellow Members that, for the seventh year now, the minimum pension rate is 28 500 HUF, so that we can reach the end of the increase in the benefits linked to it in such a way that maternity benefits, child-related benefits and child-related benefits will also increase. [[17.20]] Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I have summarised these cases in five problems that we would like to propose a solution to. As I mentioned, the first problem is that, as of 1 March, the government significantly changed the aid system, including the cessation of housing support. Our proposal is to re-introduce normative housing support at legal level, and this could be carried out at district level with central support. There is another point in our motion to increase the rate of housing support from the previous 450 HUF/square meters to 600 HUF/square meters. The second problem is that a number of equity benefits, including equity care premiums, and equity public health care, have ceased to exist in connection with the submission or adoption of this law. On the other hand, the municipal aid intended to replace them no longer includes the minimum conditions, as before, at least we know who is entitled to such aid, at least we know how much is due. Our solution proposal is that, leaving the framework for municipal support, but bringing back the previous brakes and uniform minimum standards for the level of benefits, we will, of course, build up the equity care fee and the public health care system, leaving the framework for municipal support, complementing a single element: we would also raise the minimum standards for funeral benefits that were abolished more than a year and a half ago into this municipal support. The third problem is that the government has abolished debt management aid. Debt management aid would remain. The possibility of a debt management service, together with debt management advice, is proposed to re-regulate or re-regulate the framework for care, but it would be easier to add conditions to the aid than the previous regulation. The development of detailed rules would be the responsibility of local authorities, supported, of course, by a central budget contribution. [[Attila Gelencsér takes the notary seat.]] The fourth problem is known by many: it is the principle of one family. Here, too, after the change in March... - it is well known that only one person in a family can receive an employment replacement allowance, but those who could not have received a fht, a so-called fht, were entitled to regular social assistance. A ministerial reply to a written question revealed that there are thousands or thousands of families with two persons involved, perhaps three or four. Of course, this can happen if there is also an adult child in the family who can't get a fht, but who has received regular social assistance in the past. We propose that this rule be abolished. The last, fifth problem, as I mentioned in my introduction: since 2008, the minimum pension rate has been HUF 28 500, and it is also known to our fellow Members that this is accompanied by a large number of forms of support that have virtually inflated 30-32 percent of its value in the last seven years. This category includes children, including children and maternity allowance. With this legislative proposal, if it were to receive support in Parliament, the amount of these subsidies would increase significantly, not to mention that the minimum pension rate, the HUF 28 500, is, in my opinion, a shame to say the XXI. At the beginning of the century. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support our motion, and I'm sure a lot of people will be grateful, because as I count, it affects over a million people. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the Members who have registered in writing in the order of their registration: Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representing the MSZP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-26-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I can't help but see that not only the floors of the Fidesz have been cleared, there's no one here from the government. In recent years, over HUF 600 billion has been withdrawn from the social sector with the convergence programme in recent years, and in the following year around HUF 300 billion is also planned to be withdrawn from the social sector. According to Eurostat's latest survey, which has now been published, they have looked at how regions in the European Union countries are in poverty data. There are 273 regions in the European Union and four regions in Hungary are among the poorest 20 regions. The 8th is the poorest in Northern Hungary, the 11th is the poorest in the North Plain, and the 12th is the South Transdanubian region. Hungary is divided into seven regions, which means that more than half of Hungary is among the poorest regions. So if we are talking about how much money the Fidesz-KDNP government should spend on the social sector, I think that much more than it is planning to do now, and it should not be taken from the sector, but added. My colleague, Mr Korózs, told me again what aids had been abolished, I would like to say that regular social assistance, housing support, debt management services, public health services, equity care fees and municipal aids have been abolished. I think these types of relief speak for themselves. By the way, the most serious issue was housing support for families: we are talking about more than 500 thousand families, about two million people. And I think that we can only propose support and ask our fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Sebestyén Crafter of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Our Fraction will support the inclusion of a series of subjects, because it contains a lot of problems or tries to provide solutions that we have already dealt with, whether in the form of a question or a question of a problem or a motion for amendment, whether we can talk about settling the pay situation of social workers or whether we can talk about raising the smallest old-age pension on which a lot of benefits depend. This lack of raises, which has been waiting for you for several years, is the lack of raises that have made many people's lives hopeless, financially hopeless. Although there are some points that could be debated or perhaps otherwise formulated, or perhaps subject to certain conditions, such as the nature of public works, in order to raise its allocation to the minimum wage level, I would say that it is necessary to guarantee the possibility, or not the possibility, but to guarantee that, within the framework of public work, those involved in it carry out meaningful and tangible work within the framework of public employment. If we say that we raise it to the minimum wage level, it can also be expected that this will correspond to normal work, even to work in the open labour market. [[Nándor Gúr: This is another topic.]] In comparison with the fact that many who do very hard work are currently looking for around the minimum wage. So the difference between these levels and the types must be found, if there is no difference, then the minimum wage can be given. So I think that the inclusion in the series is justified by the fact that there are many good initiatives for action, and it also justifies the fact that, although there are issues in it that we think differently, this can be put in place in a debate during amendments, so we will support the inclusion in the series. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás László is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, To the path or to the goal outlined by the MSZP, there are many ways to go. We have already achieved significant results in supporting families, which will continue in 2016. With the reduction of personal income tax this year, 120 billion HUF remains in the pocket of the families. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Which families?]] By increasing family tax incentives with two children, the financial situation of 350,000 families is improving. [[17 .30]] In the case of a family with an average salary, parents could spend 114,000 HUF per year and 85 thousand forints more on raising children at the minimum wage. Since the government is best able to support families by leaving the money they earn, parents can practically take home their gross earnings for about 110,000 families with the lowest income. In the last five years, the government has left 1300 billion forints in Hungarian families. The 2016 budget expands the free school catering. The central budget has already contributed to the child's meal with increasing amounts, and next year this amount exceeds HUF 70 billion. The children's summer meals have been completed in more settlements than ever before. With regard to pensions, the government maintained its 2010 commitment to preserve the real value of pensions, as pensions have been increased by inflation. Since 2010, the average rate of pensions has increased from HUF 97 259 to HUF 115 875, which is a 5.5 percent increase in real value. I believe that this is the path represented by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-26-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-26-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am a little sorry that we have to convince five pro-government representatives here that this proposal is worthy of support, and we also regret that whatever we say from the opposition, Fidesz-KDNP is using the same panels continuously. It is quite simply unable to have a meaningful debate with the opposition, and it is clear here that this proposal is about keeping Hungary from breaking up even more. My fellow Member, you have just spoken about how Hungary will be further torn apart thanks to your plans. So here is a very serious difference of opinion between you, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you continue to do so here, then this country, most of the people who carry this country on your back, will be affected by the burdens that you are now bearing. The May Other Group of Politics naturally supports this proposal of the MSZP, we fully agree that social inequalities must be reduced in this country, and that it must be prevented in every way from making families in need even worse. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in these needy families there are many children who, along with the families, will also be in a worse position if you do not get off that horse that you have been riding for quite some time now. It is clear that there are a number of proposals in this package that the MSZP has placed on the table, which can be found in the LMP proposals. For example, we have proposed a 30% increase in family allowances and child benefits, social benefits and the old-age pension minimum. There is no reason why these subsidies have not been able to increase since 2008. In addition, here I would like to draw attention to the old-age pension minimum, which is 28 500 HUF, the seventh year unchanged, and there is a lot of care attached to this, the gegyes, the ged or the fht. Now that means that if one of them is frozen, the others remain the same, which is why everyone, my honourable fellow Member, who earns below average in this country, is bad, and these people are very many. The MSZP is trying to help them now, please don't stop them.
u2015-05-26-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Since there is no more opportunity for speeches, I will ask the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said. Yes, Congressman Lajos Korózs wishes to answer. It's a two-minute window. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There is nothing in this proposal that has not yet been part of the social security system, and there is nothing in it that has not been part of the budget so far. So we didn't come up with anything that couldn't be done, and it can't even be said that there's no budgetary resources, because they've been in the budget so far. I note it very quietly, all expenditure costs half as much as the move of Viktor Orbán to Castle. I point out that it costs half as much. These days, they cut up the fact that a number of journalists reportedly asked the Directorate General of ONYF to tell us how many people receive the 28 500 forints. Something 112 has come out, but I will tell you that since the pension increase in January, according to the pension statistics, there has been an old-age pensioner, and it is really a shame to say that, who receives an old-age pension under HUF 10,000. There are more than 6800 people who receive between 10 and 20,000 forints, 2800 who receive between 20 and 25 thousand forints, between 25 and 30 thousand forints, between 30 and 35 thousand forints, almost 5 000 forints, and 35 to 40 thousand forints, to which we would like to raise the minimum pension, there are more than 7100 forints, so this affects 29 thousand people, only those who receive an old-age pension. And hold on, I found in the stock statistics a further 12,200 people, who were retired, but who had been treated for disability, but who had only reached their retirement age. So we're talking about 42,000 people who would only be affected by this one moment. 42,000 people! And I'm not talking about the hundreds of thousands, the mothers who are in need, the mothers who receive maternity benefits, or the childbearing benefits. So please support my proposal in tomorrow's vote.
u2015-05-26-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard from Congressman, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the minimum wage increase, on the basis of the central budget for 2016 and on the H/4375 for the eradication of workers' poverty. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of Parliament, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about an issue, or I am asking for your support for inclusion in the series, which did not develop today, not yesterday. We've come this far for years. The last five years have done a great deal in a negative sense to address this problem, unfortunately. It is not random that we have actually submitted it at the foundation of the budget and prior to the adoption of the Budget Act, and we have asked for support for the series of articles. Simply because what has developed in this regard over the past few years is a process that negatively affects both the far and far-reaching multitude of people. The deepening of workers' poverty is basically about the fact that, unfortunately, the smallest people seeking the lowest level of income are in a worse position in time. Let's make this clear to all of us. They make minimum wage developments look so much like they're trying to make us see that it's okay, because it's drawing a growing trend in the minimum wage process. In the last five years, reality has, of course, been in the opposite direction. Because if we are talking about the gross of the minimum wage, we are talking about growth, but, you know, the gross of the minimum wage alone means that both the employee and the employer pay more contributions. There is a beneficiary - the current government - of this story, but a man who is forced to work for a minimum wage, and many in this country, has access to less money than, say, five years ago, in 2010. In 2010, Hungary's minimum wage, net, and hand-held value exceeded HUF 60 200, now this net, hand-in-hand amount is HUF 68 750, which is worth five thousand forints less than HUF 60 200 in 2010. This example can be followed very easily, only inflationary data should be taken into account and the valorisation process carried out. [[17.40]] But my fellow Members and fellow members of the Government have not been very willing to do this in the last five years. It must therefore be noted that the minimum wage shows, not on the gross basis, but on the basis of the amount taken in hand and its value, what it is really worth. In the meantime, a work law was also born in 2012, which practically led to the situation that more work could be done for less money, if any, in the subsequent period. The minimum wage is worth knowing that compared to today's minimum living amount - which they do not show, of course, because they are working with the 2013 life minimidats, which was 87 500 forints, today it is around 92 thousand forints - twenty thousand forints less. The scissors are opening, so the poverty is expanding and deepening. As far as the minimum wage is concerned, but beyond that, it is practically the other aspect of the matter that concerns public employment wages. Here Sebestyén Csító advanced the support at the previous item. I would also like to say, my fellow Member, that yes, there is a need to bring to life the types of public employment that should be combined with as much value creation as possible, so that one form of work, let us say, employment and public employment, between people, does not give rise to distaste. The other part is that state withdrawals have reached levels, particularly at low income levels, which are unacceptable, of nearly 50 percent. Technically, this issue still deals with the public sector staff's salary base, in respect of which I am going back for the last five years, for the period of two Orbán governments. Unprecedented! No government has since the moment of the change of regime, in respect of which the stipend of HUF 38 650 would not have changed, in the five years of these two Orbán governments. In order to resolve these issues, I would like to ask my fellow Members for support on the subject series. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, we're gonna do the comments. According to house rules, it is possible to speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and to speak in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. Accordingly, first, the written speeches will be followed by the written speeches and then they will be logged in here with the button on the spot. I give the floor first to Mr Zoltán Lukács of the MSZP Group. [[Zoltán Luke says no.]] Then I apologize. I can only say what appears to me. If you don't want to say anything, that was wrong. Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén, who edits, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This proposal for a decision also contains important issues. I think that we are thinking much more drasticly on certain issues. If we are talking about an open labour market, and we are talking about people working in multinational companies, whether in retail or in manufacturing, we are saying that not only a minimum wage increase, but also a much better approach to wages received at the parent company's headquarters, the wages of those earning here, in Hungary's subsidiary or here's plants. The other issue that we are talking about is raising the basic wage of civil servants in parallel with raising the minimum wage. This is an important issue, because until we change this, we will not increase it, we will only raise it at the minimum wage, and we will achieve that within the profession, whether I look at my own area of expertise, there will be enormous wage tensions within the social field, because even if it has been working there for decades and is a similar or the same wage for a beginner, who is now a beginner, whether without a professional degree, and this is unsustainable. However, if such a guarantee element is included in the need to increase this amount in parallel with raising the minimum wage, then this problem can be overcome. Of course, in this proposal for a resolution, I can say, as in the previous one, that certain parts, I think, need to be refined, but we cannot do these refinements, in addition to good endeavours, without the fact that the Parliament does not include this in a series of subjects and we would not discuss it, so I can say this, as with the previous faction, that our faction will naturally support the inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás László is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-205	[[No microphones.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Once again, the question of purpose and path arises. You can agree with the goals, not necessarily the way to them. Our position on [[Intercoms from Jobbik: It doesn't sound right! Microphone!]] that we have made significant progress in terms of employment and wages in recent years. The number of employees has been increasing since August 2010. Thirteen months ago, more than 4 million people have been working in Hungary. I find that to be a real achievement. Over the past year, more than 100,000 people have grown [[Intercoms from Jobbik and MSZP: You can't hear it! Microphone! He can't even hear us! Defiance.]] Number of persons employed during the period since 2010 [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: He doesn't realize we're speaking! Don't start over. Defiance.]] Real wages have increased by 10 percent in total.
u2015-05-26-206	I'm sorry, Congressman, I don't know if you forgot to put your microphone on. [[Defiance.]] They are trying to create the right conditions technically, but unfortunately, the technical staff were not in a position to properly confirm this speech.
u2015-05-26-207	I'll be brief. Our position is that we have achieved significant results in recent years. Since August 2010, there has been a steady increase in the number of employees, and for 13 months more than 4 million people have been working in Hungary. Over the past year, the number of people employed has increased by over 100,000. This is what we consider to be a real achievement. In the meantime, real wages have increased by 10% in the period since 2010. Between 2010 and 2014, the gross minimum wage grew best among OECD countries in Hungary, and wage purchasing power has been growing stable for two and a half years now. We think this is the road the government is on, and we're going on about it. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-26-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-26-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This proposal is also supported by the LMP faction, as it is true that the poverty of workers in Hungary is increasing. People are becoming less and less able to earn their living and more and more work for the same wages. He provided this in the Fidesz-KDNP tandem, because, along with the new Labour Code and the introduction of a single-key tax, he practically created a state in the country, which resulted in the loss of everyone who earns below average, and now we have 4 million poor countries to talk about. Fidesz talks a lot about how much money families have left. Lately, they say that 170 billion stays with families. In the budget, 500 billion will be thrown out the window. Moreover, if we are talking about families, please name the families, my honourable fellow Member, for whom there is a great deal of money left in the country. We can read a lot about them in the papers, in different media. Indeed, the growth of those families is significant, but most of the Hungarian families are badly affected by your government. Moreover, even the people who are really taking this country on their backs to put it this way, a large part of those people must now consider leaving the country itself, because practically nothing is waiting for them in this country, and you are responsible for it. You mentioned the minimum wage gross here. In the last five years, it has indeed increased by 43 percent, but its net is 15 percent, and where is it compared to the minimum living? In the last five years, the minimum wage has not even increased by ten thousand forints, and two and a half million employees have suffered ill with the single-key income tax. You have increased the tax burden of the lower seven income tenths by 134 billion, and at the same time the tax on the highest incomes has decreased by HUF 501 billion, so you have rearranged the tax burden by virtually everyone who earns below average in this country has been badly affected. One of the consequences is that there is an increasing proportion of workers whose earnings do not even reach the minimum wage. It's perfectly clear that you're on the wrong track. This is a proposal that can reduce your bad policy. I ask you, even if you do not fully understand what I am talking about here, because you are obviously watching another movie, if you are talking about Hungary, consider and support this series of subjects, and then express your opinion, because it is not a condition that we are practically unable to talk to you properly about the situation that we are seeing in the world. [[17.50]]
u2015-05-26-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member László Varju asked for the floor of the independent Members. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-211	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the Democratic Coalition Group wishes to support this proposal, even because in recent years, Fidesz-KDNP has actually created 6 million people by abandoning the situation that, based on their own data and knowledge, 6 million people, recognised by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, have been worse off with your governance in this country, while you are happy to talk about the year of preparation, disengagement and much more about how dynamic the economy is now. If that were the case, if that were the case, then these 6 million people would not have been poorer in recent years, but could have lived a little better. But you didn't create any conditions for that. This is why the proposal is suitable for this debate. We recommend that if the minimum wage of 93,000 forints in Hungary, which basically creates the minimum requirement to have the opportunity for a minimum meal, clothing and housing, the minimum wage of 67 thousand forints can reach this level within a reasonable period of time, within five years. It is precisely so that we can have this debate, because there are many consequences for other areas, but this debate must be carried out and the further nullification of people who have been abandoned by the government must be completed. Therefore, let us hold this debate and therefore support the inclusion on the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask if someone, on behalf of the authors, wants to respond to what has been said. Yes, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank my fellow opposition Members for their confidence in this series of things, and I would like to encourage the pro-government Members to reconsider their views. It is not enough to talk about employment figures and unemployment figures, and it is also about unjust ones. I will not go into the details, but you should know, because you have every opportunity to acquire knowledge that all the figures that are recorded through the EMSO can be derived from the additional employment data, from the registration of those working abroad not more than a year ago, from the number of workers who have been working for four hours from eight hours of work, from which they are composed, and not from real employment growth. That's part of the story. But what is perhaps more important at this moment is that, in terms of income, when you talk about averages, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that they can tell the others, who are not present in Parliament today, that low income earners are not beneficiaries of this story in the last five years, but those who are injured. They're not his beneficiaries. They're his victims. In other words, not the category of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands, but the category of millions is affected or formed by a multitude of losers. For this reason, a concrete, tangible statistical data, which you cannot dispute, is the closed year of the National Tax and Customs Office in 2013: 4.3 million people make personal income tax returns, of which more than 2.2 million earns under the minimum living. This is the emergence and escalation of workers' poverty. We are proposing to reduce this when we are ahead of the adoption of the budget. I would ask my fellow Members, the Fidesz people and the Christian Democrats to think about this. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to restore the genuine respect of nurses, H/4685. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. In this connection, I give the floor first to Mr László György Lukács, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary recommends to your attention the proposal for a decision to restore the genuine respect of nurses to the series of subjects. There are more ways to restore the true respect of nurses and more roads to be followed. One of these ways is to improve the conditions currently affecting the working conditions, wages and replacements of nurses by using budgetary resources. It is also possible to choose a path that will not have a special budgetary impact, will not get the budget significantly pregnant, and this way we can achieve the same goal in order to get ahead on the road to social appreciation. But real appreciation can also be achieved by the fact that, if the nurses themselves, the health professionals themselves go out and look for this path. But it is also possible for us politicians, whether we stand on the left, to stand on the right, in agreement with our options here in Parliament, to support a proposal that has now been proposed by Jobbik or put on the table by Jobbik. The substance of the proposal, of course, shows the sincerity and serious thinking that Jobbik has approached the situation of nurses and that Jobbik is responsible for this issue. The situation itself is completely understandable to everyone. It is now taking place for over a month, because, in my view, it has not yet ended, the so-called nursing spring, in which nurses formulated those demands, primarily based on the demands of the Hungarian Health Professional Association, and assessed the missing elements and the greatest dangers that make their current work almost impossible. These were wages, these were the challenges of working conditions and supplies. Now that we know what the situation is and is constantly in place, since the government's coordination is not the solution, we must know what is in the proposal for a decision, because then we can decide responsibly how much the proposal for a decision, which we believe would provide a real solution, will stand the test of time. In the proposal for a decision, Jobbik proposed three measures with which - I repeat - the situation could be resolved cost-effectively, without any particular burden, without any burden on the budget, focusing on two deadlines. One would be September 1st and the other would be July 31st. The Movement for Jobbik Hungary considered that it was necessary to give back the highest level of public administration's involvement in health decisions, and it is absolutely necessary that all decisions concerning nurses, in the opinion of Jobbik, should be established, but in the current Ministry structure they should be able to decide on a separate nursing department, and it should be the nursing department that is competent in all human resources issues, wages issues affecting nurses, but also on professional policy issues, and should properly transform and convey the will of nurses. But the Jobbik Movement for Hungary saw the need for another part of the public administration, which is also to get into the system within the territory of the so-called national government body, and in this case proposes to restore a well-functioning institution, the institution of a former well-functioning person, and this is the national head care institution, which, although it seems that if we look at the state structure as if it were now, does not have sufficient weight, not with the powers and not with what Jobbik intends to give it, because one of the tasks of this person, this institution, would be to deal with the human resource shortages that nurses face, the ageing, the disappearing workers, the situation of demotivated workers. In addition, Jobbik Hungary's Movement would also like to know about health education in the health care sector, and not leave it at an economic wallet where they are not competent in deciding on the crisis of health care supply. So the area also needs to be changed. [[18.00]] The positions in the current proposal for a decision are well known. I repeat that this proposal for a decision should be even more attractive to everyone, with reasonable deadlines, reasonable cost implications, with unanimous support for the opinion of the profession, and, in any case, a proposal to move forward in resolving the case of nurses, saving costs, thinking honestly and responsibly. To this end, I call for the support of my fellow Members for the inclusion of the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-216	Thank you very much. [[To Lajos Korózs:]] I'll give you that. I'll just ask Congressman to press the button. Thank you very much. Now one Member per group of Members has the opportunity to speak for 2-2 minutes, and the first independent Member has the same possibility. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, from the group of the MSZP.
u2015-05-26-217	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The motion will be supported by the Socialist Party Group, and we agree on both points. For us, too, it is extremely important that the first thing that will contribute to the appreciation of healthcare workers is that there will be a meaningful reconciliation of interests, which, unfortunately, has not been the subject of the conflict for years; the pay issue, the issue of other cafeteria benefits and the development of policies. We also support the idea of restoring the national head nurse position, all the more so, because it would give this profession a little, to say the least, rank. Look, it was the International Day of Nurses on 12 May, and I said that this is the black Tuesday, because care professionals have recently held a lot of conferences, where parliamentary parties are usually invited. Interestingly, the governing party alone was not represented at these events. I just want to say some catchphrases of what I took note of what they said there. 1. The therapists are overloaded. 2. A nurse often treats 40 patients alone. 3. Three quarters of nurses suffer from two or three musculoskeletal disorders due to continuous patient movements. 4. Most of the in-patient care classes don't have a break room. 5. Nurses don't get protective and work clothes. 6. According to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, their net average income is only HUF 97 thousand. 7. This amount does not reach HUF 160,000 gross after 40 years of work. And finally, 8. As a result, there is an increasing gap compared to other sectors. The Socialist Group will support the motion. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-26-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The May Other in Politics will support this proposal. The last time everyone looked forward to the appointed national chief nurse and the work he was doing. The institution was expected and expected to finally have a worthy position in the profession, a worthy representation. The expectation was justified then, and it is right now, but we have serious doubts as to how successful an institution could be, which somehow disappears in the storm of the administration, for example in the current restructuring fever. But together, the establishment of a nursing department and the appointment of a national head nurse might make sure that the nurses who, indeed, are treated as step-mothers in this system in comparison to their many hard work. Unfortunately, however, we are not sure whether the State Secretariat for Health is capable of taking appropriate professional decisions and implementing them in its present form. It is obvious that they are not well enough in the area of advocacy in their own government, it is enough just to look at the main figures of the budget that we have ahead of us in relation to health. For this reason, even if the national lead nurse could facilitate appropriate professional decisions, unfortunately, this alone does not guarantee that the necessary steps will be taken. However, if there is a minimum chance of improving the situation of nurses, we support this proposal. We hope that if it is realized, the work of the nursing department and the nation's chief nurse will not be in vain. It is also out of the question that, in the present terrible situation, there is the possibility of progress in any change. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-26-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, it is up to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I also gave my opinion at the committee meeting. As a health worker, I have now watched for two decades the efforts of each government aimed at the appreciation and financial recognition of health workers. But I'm gonna have to make you feel bad. That didn't work. Today, a health worker earns close to HUF 100-110,000 net on a 12-hour shift and has to work on Sundays, fellow Members. The proposal for a decision is about the national head nurse and the head nurse's institution, but this is a step towards facilitating the government's efforts to get the government to negotiate with interest representatives, which is already in the process, out of the government, so that we can help it. It is not only in the interests of the parties, it is the interests of health workers and, as my fellow Member from the LMP said, the express request of health professionals. However, I would like to tell my fellow Members here some of the data that is closely related to this issue, and this background is why this proposal is here. It is important to see that there is, unfortunately, no significant difference in pay at national level in all healthcare institutions in the country, and we find low rentals. There is no correlation between the work carried out and the income received. The evolution of the number of workers varies from field to field. There is no shortage of staff in the North Great Plain region, at least if you look at the availability of available posts. One of the reasons for this is that there are very few jobs in that area, but the provision of workers is too high. The same cannot be said for the Western region. In the Western region, workers leave to work abroad in the hope of a better and better future. That's all I wanted to say. Unfortunately, there is very little time and hours to talk about this, and not only must we talk about it, honourable Members, but to act. Here's the clock, here's the last minute. Please, do it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the factions if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I am now asking the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of the rapporteur, in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a very good message when the governing party wants to provide support or comment on such an important proposal for a resolution, which everyone has spoken to and everyone has given their support. I think you'll have to account for your own attitude. Again, perhaps there was only one way to prove it. They have revealed that the conflicts of interest that take place in the background are more about resolving the situation, delaying the situation, delaying the solution of the problem, and that there is no real commitment in the government. It would have been time, as my fellow Member said to me, to put something on the table for at least two minutes, and tell them to get out of the sheepskin, to show what they think of nurses. However, I thank you very much for the support of the parties that have supported us in this regard. All of their points were consistent with what we said ourselves. They are, by the way, and I recommend this to the parties of government, which we have proposed, small steps, not painful steps at all, and not fantasies, but minimum criteria, minimum requirements that are necessary to maintain the system's functionality. It can't be said enough that the government seems to be suffering from a lack of ability in the case of nurses. He can't hear the nurses' voices. I can only accept that if you do not wish to hear my voice and do not wish to deal with Jobbik's proposal for a resolution, but I find it unacceptable that you turn your back on the nurses. Remember, we're after 24:00, it's time for you to change your mind, and when you have to vote, you'll support this resolution proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the House that the decision will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the exclusion of offshore businesses from the use of public funds and the removal of the public administration from the offshore sector T/4198. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. [[18.10]] The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-05-26-225	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Fidesz-KDNP has proved several times over the past five years that it is in fact on the side of the offshore knights, as it has voted off any initiative that would otherwise have swept the offshore knights not only from the area of public funds, but also from the country. In the debate on the new civil code, the LMP also proposed an amendment so that it was not possible to register in Hungary any economic entities that had an offshore background. This proposal was voted out, although it could have been cut short, as this would mean the Ptk. Since its entry into force, companies with offshore background cannot operate in Hungary at all. The current proposal is confined to a narrower circle: we say that the offshore knights will also be expelled from the area of public money. And right now, I'm gonna have to make two clarification remarks. Disabling the country, the Hungarian national economy, is not merely an anti-corruption issue, although it is. Just as, on one side, the mandatory wealth growth investigation of politicians, which was voted down two weeks ago, is a guarantee that the political elite will stop stealing the common wealth, and it would also be the same guarantee if the offshore taps were closed off. After all, there is a suspicion that what the elite has stolen in this country in 25 years, most of this property has simply been removed through offshore companies. Interestingly, since you have been in power, Fidesz-KDNP representatives, it is no longer so important that Cyprus and heaven know where the tentacles are being cut off. But it's not just an anti-corruption issue, it's not just the purity of public life. In the last 25 years, Hungarian government debt has flowed two and a half times from the Hungarian national economy to offshore havens. This means that the income the Hungarian people produce here is a significant part of, avoiding taxes, quite simply leaking out to various offshore sites and offshore havens. Hungary cannot develop until a substantial part of the income generated here is used here, it is not invested here, it is not for the benefit of the Hungarian people, it is for the benefit of the Hungarian national economy. Therefore, there is a dual strategic issue, a dual strategic goal, which should at least remove the offshore knights from the public sector. The other question, however, that we need to clarify is what we think of offshore at all. The LMP bill does this clarification. We are thinking at the same time about businesses whose ownership structure is not transparent. In theory, the Fundamental Law also treats this at some level, but next to it from (a) - I think, if I remember our proposal correctly - (o) - we list the few places where thieves like to take their money out of this country. After all, there have been times when the National Bank of Hungary bought a palace here, downtown, from a company whose tentacles, that they do not, but they reach the Saint Vincent Islands. There is a building in downtown, a neighbouring building in my former high school, which has not been forgotten since Demszky's, of course, since the settlement took place so much, is owned by the Marshall Islands and the Seychelles Joint Company. This is a scandal! We propose that any offshore company should not engage in business relations with a public, municipal company, state or local government. The Hungarian national assets, the assets of the municipality, the state, the state and municipal companies cannot be disposed of or leased to offshore companies. We are proposing that public, municipal and interest bodies should not engage in business relations with offshore companies at any level; nor with those whose ownership structure is not transparent, nor with those whose tentacles, acting as a cash pump, extend to very remote islands. If you say no to this proposal again, it merely proves that Fidesz has a well-conceived interest in covering the offshore knights, as you are also interested in transferring a substantial proportion of national income from here; you are also interested in clearing illegally acquired money through transactions with offshore companies. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It's time for a confession, honourable Members of the Fidesz. After politicians' mandatory wealth analysis has been voted out, how do they respond to the fact that we want to disarm the country, but most of all we want to distract those who are only interested in laundering corruption money? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And this country is being deprived of the income generated here? Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-226	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can have a 2-2 minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2015-05-26-227	Mr President, Dear House, We agree with the objectives set out in the bill before us, both personally and with the Movement for Jobbik Hungary. We can support the reduction of companies with opaque ownership structures of unknown backgrounds and the categorical exclusion of these players from public sector transactions. Of course, we do not imagine this as the current government, that they are very hard on words, and then the actions fail. I think you'll remember that in 2012, a law was passed that stopped public funds for companies with an opaque ownership structure, and then, in the six months following the entry into force of the law, the National Development Agency paid more than HUF 30 billion to offshore companies. The proposal can be amended, but we can support it. However, it should be noted that not only a predictable and transparent regulatory environment is needed, but also consistent and non-corruption implementation. First of all, it is necessary to clean up the apparatus that simply lies about industrial-sized VAT fraud, which is beneficial to public companies' tax and contribution debts of billions, and to keep an eye on the common practice where buddy companies are rich with their name and face from public funds without offshore. One of the main directions of the bill is the strengthening of transparency, i.e. the wider understanding of the owners of the natural person behind the companies. It is in the interest of all of us that Hungarian taxpayers who make public money are able to learn about the range of public-paid suppliers, service providers or sponsors as widely as possible. In transactions with the public sector, transparency and awareness of the natural persons behind it have always been supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement. But I must also note to you here that I think you remember Kaya Ibrahim. In that case, too, the identity of the owner of the actual natural person became known, but despite the large amount of [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] no outstanding public debt has been recovered since then. So let's make these laws, let's just enforce these laws. The Movement for Jobbik Hungary will support this series of articles. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-05-26-228	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind in two minutes, LMP.
u2015-05-26-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal would, in effect, complete the offshore detachment in this country, not only with offshore in the legal sense, but also with the economic offshore, which is a very important point, as the dialogue with Fidesz often fails at this point. They keep talking about the legal offshore, and we add that, yes, there is the economic offshore, that is, the places, the tax havens where you can tax at a level far from Hungary. Of course, it is worth it for companies to announce themselves there, but in practice Hungary will be deprived of tax revenues, at least from what they would produce. In this bill, we list specifically the places, micro-states and tax havens from Anguilla to Vanuatu, which we claim to be part of this circle, and we would say that neither companies who register companies in these places can participate in public procurement nor receive public contracts. Moreover, civil servants and state leaders would be banned from having ownership of this. For each forint that is taxed in such tax havens is lost tax revenues, and they are bitterly lacking in this country in order to improve, for example, our education or health care, or, for example, to raise wages or reduce the burden on Hungarian businesses. But it also represents an unfair competitive advantage for these companies, crowding out regular domestic businesses. [[18.20]] In addition, let me draw your attention to the magnitude of the money that has been lost here. Obviously, there is no accurate estimate by nature, but it is a hundred billion per year, but there is also a survey that shows that over the past three decades our public debt has flowed out two and a half times into such tax havens. Let me mention why it is so important for Fidesz to keep voting off this bill. There's the case of the Eiffel Palace, the MNB bought it from an offshore company with an untaxed profit of HUF 4-5 billion. And it was one transaction. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you to vote in favour of our proposal if you take the fight against offshore somewhat seriously. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-230	Thank you very much. The position of the MSZP is presented by Mr László Szakács.
u2015-05-26-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that this will also be a proposal where we can see that the government has no opinion, but I do not know if there will be a fidesz opinion on this proposal. I would like there to be, because I believe that you have received from each of my fellow Members questions that should encourage not too many members of the Group to say something about this. The Socialist Party will also support it because we believe that, apart from agreeing with the goals, this is a very important issue. An important issue which has been deliberately misunderstanding in this House every single time, since there was something that my fellow Member has already called for, that the National Development Agency has told everyone that it is not offshore. Of course, it was consciously misunderstood; all Hungarian self-employed people, all Hungarian deposit companies, and everywhere where it was a company of personal responsibility, were declared, of course, about everything. It was a completely misinterpreted, consciously misinterpreted collection of paper that caused problems for everyone, but they didn't want to solve the problem. I also believe that we have reached a dividing line with this: we can see whether Fidesz is able and willing to support it, so that public companies and budgetary bodies cannot enter into contracts, any transactions with offshore companies or public procurements, and that companies with such backgrounds, or who have entered into transactions with them, should close out of public procurement. This leads to the purity of public life and public confidence, and I think that people should be more confident in the decisions that are made in this house. I will not repeat the data, but I believe that these problems are obvious to everyone, so the Socialist Party will support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-05-26-232	Thank you, Congressman. The position of Fidesz is presented by Mr Péter Cseresnyés. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: Come on.]]
u2015-05-26-233	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a response they asked for. It should be said that I like this suggestion, the proposal that we can read [[Dr. László Kács: But they don't support it!]] that's right in front of us. The goals can be viewed as sympathetic, but it should be taken into account that the socialist faction says that they are sympathetic and that something must be done by 2010 [[Dr. András Schiffer: The last eight years!]] He did nothing to do with it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But this is an LMP proposal!]] I don't think there's going to be any arguments like this today. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't miss.]] However, since 2011, for example, the Fundamental Law requires that public funds can only be obtained by persons and entities with a transparent ownership structure. [[Dr. László Kács: And how well it works! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] This clearly serves and serves to reduce offshore companies. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the settlement bond?]] Companies applying for public money must make a statement on ownership and structure by name. [[Dr. László Szakács: All of them!]] , its members with 25% ownership or voting rights and their tax matters. Thus, the intention to grant public funds to companies with transparent ownership structure can be achieved. In the middle of yelling, you're saying that it's something to be called to account. If this cannot be taken into account, if there is no result that this is in a Fundamental Law, and it is also necessary to make a statement in a accountable manner. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Execute!]] then they think that this can be done by other legislation [[Dr. László Kács: It's the only way!]] Just because a opposition party filed this?
u2015-05-26-234	Congressman, just a moment, please. Mr. Team Leader... [[Péter Cseresnyés, without any sound: I think that at the moment we have the laws to help the president ring the bell.]] Just a moment, Congressman Cherry. Mr. Schiffer, with all due respect, don't yell at him, he's about to say something, or text me, but don't yell at him. Let's keep listening, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the current framework ensures that offshore companies are able to act against or against such an intention. I believe that right now legislation, legislation, does not necessarily have to be involved. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You don't have to!]] Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-236	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr. András Schiffer, Group Leader, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in 120 seconds.
u2015-05-26-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the opposition speeches. I would like to confirm that the proposal, of course, also applies to what Bernadett Szél said, that we would introduce a complete ban on offshore ownership of state employees. So you can no longer be a government official, deputy state secretary, involved with offshore companies. Mr Cseresnyés's speech is quite simply incomprehensible. Congressman, I have made it clear that there are two types of offshore companies, and the congresswoman has also said so. There's something you remembered in the Fundamental Law, the so-called legal offshore, so-called offshore with an opaque ownership structure. In addition, there are the so-called economic offshore companies, so the tax havens where the political elite has been eager to steal the money for the last 25 years. We'd like to strike both of them down. Once you refer to the basic legal provision, I don't know what's stopping us from implementing the Fundamental Law. I wasn't talking about accounting. I said that if there is a basic rule of law, it is precisely the duty of the legislator, Parliament, to implement the provisions of the Fundamental Law. Once you refer to the Fundamental Law, it is the duty of a dog to negotiate and adopt such a law. Congressman, what's at stake is whether, quite simply, your basic legislation can be taken seriously. A basic rule of law is worth what we do with it. This legislation serves this purpose. It is intended to prevent the political elite from robbing this country in the future and this country from being deprived of resources that could otherwise serve development. If you are going to climb out of the way again to discuss at all the Hungarian Parliament's proposal to free the country from the offshore companies, you are simply saying that this basic legislative provision is not worth anything. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-238	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Group of the LMP has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/4291 amendment of certain laws necessary to combat workers' poverty. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. I'll ask who the authors want to speak on their behalf in a five-minute time frame. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett reporting.]] I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors.
u2015-05-26-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz's policy since 2010 has now clearly outlined the country in which you believe and the socio-economic model you want to follow. Technically, I can say this in a brief and concise way that you are sending a message to the Hungarian people to take on all kinds of work in the burning world, work from vision to blindness, and therefore do not ask for much wages in return. Now, that's what we want to deal with. We think it is very unfair to work in this country for salaries that are impossible to come out of. This policy, which you have placed on the table, is moaned practically by the whole country, and one of the consequences of which is employee poverty, by which we mean that no matter how much people who live on wages and salaries in this country can come out themselves, if they have families, they can't. One of the terrible symptoms of this phenomenon is that half of the taxpayers' earnings fall below the minimum wage, not to mention that you have been ruling for five years now, and there is still a difference of HUF 20,000 between the minimum wage net and the minimum wage. This is completely unacceptable, and the whole route on which you are on is wrong. In Hungary, we are now in a position to be the fifth cheapest in 2013 if we look at the 28 EU Member States. There's nowhere to go in this direction. It doesn't work that way. [[18.30]] It is only natural for the Hungarian people in the European Union to see that wages are very low here, and they are paid very little in return for their work, but prices are only slightly below those of the other countries, and they will think that they will go further west, and they will say that we will do the same job, we will get more money from it, and we will come out more easily, we can plan. That is why 20 percent of young people think that they will live their lives in another country, and that is why every tenth of our countrymen think that it would be easier to live their lives further west of us and consider going out of Hungary to Western Europe. It's not an adventure, it's not that they want to learn about unknown cultures, as we hear here, secretary of state and, in many cases, prime minister level, that's not what this is about. We're talking about wages. We're talking about living. We're talking about prospects. So what I can tell you is that we really need this bill that we put on the table. It's made up of five points, and we looked at it on purpose, and so that you guys brought the budget, next year, a little bit ahead of us, as we thought we would, we could even figure out that this was covered. We need to correct some of the mistakes you've made in the past period. There is the one-key income tax that you have committed that you have left hundreds of billions of forints - 500 billion virtually - more than those who earn better, while making the minimum wage taxable, which is basically torturing those who have the least money in this country. You're used to saying that you're planning a 1 percent tax reduction, but let me give you a simple example of what that's enough for. Let's say we buy a top manager who earns a million forints, he'll save 10,000 forints. Let's look at the same thing, what will happen to a minimum wage, he will save a thousand forints. So ten thousand forints will remain with the rich and a thousand forints will remain with the minimum wage, and the economy will not go up, no matter how much you would like to see it. If you continue to increase the differences in this country, the economy will not go up, but the people will go as far west as possible, we will lose more Hungarian people at home, the May Other Politics has therefore put this basically five-point package of proposals on the table. Our vision is in this, and it contains the most urgent measures, of course we could focus more on knowledge in the government, the appreciation of work or the support of Hungarian small businesses, the restoration of health, but we have now come up with the narrowest framework for this legislative package, which could be financed easily from the current budget, so to say. On the one hand, we would, of course, raise the net of the minimum wage to the minimum level of living, and we think that this would also reduce the burden on families, with a very realistic proposal. We clearly see that some of the young people should stay at home after they are 18 years old, and that if they participate in higher education studies, it will be a great relief for the family if, after the young person is 24 years of age, family tax breaks and family benefits are also due, since it is unviable to assume that young people and children at 18 years of age simply have a hip-hop break from the family. No. That's exactly what's going on, especially if they learn to stay home, and that would be very helpful, our proposal to the whole family. Moreover, we believe that it is time to raise public service salaries frozen for the eighth year of next year, with no step below the minimum wage. Our fourth proposal concerns small businesses with low incomes, which would help them. And what we would still do in this bill is reduce the 27 percent rate of the highest VAT at European level to 5 percent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the case of basic foods produced in Hungary as well. I would be honored to have your support.
u2015-05-26-240	Thank you very much. Now, one representative per group of representatives can say his group's position in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik.
u2015-05-26-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In this proposal, too, I can say what I have said several times today, that it contains a number of elements that we have already raised and even tabled in the form of a proposal. So it's clear that even though we think that it's possible to polish a thing or two or think a little differently about it, we agree with the direction, so we can support inclusion in the series of objects. For we too have seen that the process of not only families who may be out of the labour market, but also families who live on wages and salaries, has started to become more difficult for a number of years. We see their daily struggles, and we see that the government's unblessed activity pushes them even deeper. I can also talk about the abolition of progressive taxation, which, we can see what it has done, how it has opened the scissors wider. We can talk about the VAT situation, whether in terms of basic food, but otherwise in our proposal, which we have already submitted, it was also said that we should reduce the tax not only with basic food but also with the tools needed to raise children. We can also agree that both family tax incentives and child benefits, if the child goes to college and university, they can go to the completion of studies, because many families cannot afford to go to a higher education institution with the end of these. In fact, the current legislation and the financial situation of families prevent social mobilisation. I think that we can agree with the efforts, as I have said many times, whether we have already turned to the government about these problems, whether we have tried to improve the situation by making separate proposals, so, of course, we will support the inclusion of the subject series, and thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-242	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer, the leader of the Group, will present the position of politics.
u2015-05-26-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, When we put a package of laws on the House's table to reduce workers' poverty, the goal is that Hungary should, after 25 years, compete not with the price of labour, but with the level of training of the workforce. Dear Parliament, You're going down a dead end with floor gas. The fact is that the formula in Viktor Orbán's mind is now very clear, it seems to have been formulated in 2010 that Hungary will be a successful country if people work for hunger - I understand the public service workers here too - and otherwise they are perfectly vulnerable. The result is that the Hungarian national economy will not be able to produce more added value; it is precisely the more qualified people who are fleeing this country. For Fidesz, immigration may at present be the main problem - probably watching another movie - we see that emigration is the number one problem for Hungary today. And so much for our concrete proposals, that you are pursuing a policy that artificially keeps wages low in the public sector. It is not because there is no money to raise the wages of nurses, health professionals, or pedagogical assistants. Of course there is. It's just that what they're eating up for a variety of favors would make a lot of money for that. The reason why it is not possible to raise the wages of teachers or health professionals is because, by hiring public workers back in public employment, they artificially pressure wages in the public sector; that is the case. The essence of your policy is that Hungarian people earn as little as possible. By helping small and micro-enterprises in Hungary, we are giving you the chance to create new jobs in Hungary that create a real livelihood. Dear Parliament, We want a Hungary where people earn decently and high added value drives forward the Hungarian national economy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we do not think that Hungary can move forward by increasing exploitation. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-244	Thank you very much. The position of Fidesz will be presented by Congressman Péter Cseresnyés.
u2015-05-26-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can agree that a step-by-step increase or increase in income will always depend on what the national economy can bear, depending on its strength and strength. I would like to say here, among other things, to my fellow Member Schiffer that, unfortunately, unfortunately, there is a problem not only now that we have to compete very seriously with other countries because of the price of labour, but also that the quality of qualifications means a lot. So it is not the inexpensiveness of the workforce that determines whether an investor is coming here, but whether or not he is able to find a qualified workforce, that is a much more important aspect than that. I do not know how much my fellow Member has been monitoring Parliament's work and public life over the past period, but I understand that there has been a teacher's wage increase in recent years, and there has also been a wage increase in health care. I would like to say a few things about what happened in order to increase incomes in Hungary, so that the problems that you have brought up before are questioned by the reality of them. [[18.40]] Public sector wage-raising programmes will continue in 2016. Once again, there will be a teacher's wage increase, which will extend to teachers and adoption advisors in kindergartens with a higher education degree. Next year, the wage arrangements for armed and law enforcement workers and nurses and doctors will continue, and the government-official career model will be launched. Support for families will also increase significantly. You are aware that in 2016, the current intention is to leave about HUF 120 billion in the pocket of families, including by means of a reduction in VAT or even by allowing families with children to benefit more. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I think that, in relation to tax laws, in relation to the Finance Act, [[The president's ringing again.]] which will arise as an amending proposal, feel free to submit it; and it may not be necessary to settle under a law which you have set out here as an intention. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-246	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-05-26-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The LMP's motion, like the questions that the Hungarian Socialist Party has pressed, feeds on the roots we have experienced over the past five years in terms of the deepening of workers' poverty. Today, it is no longer poverty, unfortunately, or poverty, that we have to talk about in this country. At a time when there are more than 2.2 million people earning below the minimum living; when there are roughly 4.5 to 5 million people living below the minimum living, there is a huge problem in this country. And I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Cseresnyés, that the idea of a national economy's ability to hold a load is not good; no, the nature and manner of the use of existing financial resources is the point. Because resources can be distributed in such a way that they benefit the vast majority of society. This is not what is happening today, because those on the low income level are not beneficiaries of this story, but those who are indemnified. And if you look at the public service pay sign, for example, if you are no longer talking about the minimum wage, 33 of those 140 boxes - the public service pay table - that brings you to the minimum of living, show you this money in people's pockets. But one word as a hundred: the minimum amount of living, the minimum amount of living, must be guaranteed according to our conviction, which is one of these 92-93 thousand forints today. It is unacceptable to have a difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage of 20-25 thousand forints. Nor is it acceptable to argue that there are such and such increases at the real level; no, there are reductions in the low income sectors and that the increase in consumption will be brought about by growth in this pay category. We support the reduction of 27 per cent of world record VAT, as we have done through our own initiatives; and what concerns family support in higher education. One word for it: we support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-248	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask who, on behalf of the authors, would like to respond to what has been said. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind!
u2015-05-26-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all your comments, but it was very instructive, although it did not surprise me, because there was a five-party consultation that we had called to consult on this proposal. That discussion was not respected by any party of government with its presence, but the opposition did. So all I can say from the horseshoe to the ruling party is that if things were as good as they say, there wouldn't be a series of protests in this country. I was out at the health professionals' protest, and this Friday, the social workers are gonna be protesting. Obviously, if it were so appropriate for them to have a set of conditions offered by the governing parties, they would not express their dissatisfaction on the street. The May Other is clearly the aim of the Politics to finally produce high added value here in Hungary, but the situation is urgent. So this package that we've put on the table could correct the unworthy situation you've been producing for the past five years. I would like to emphasise that in the public sector, there is poverty in the workforce of one third. Businesses cannot be strengthened in this country, because when we look at micro and small businesses, there are many times when two thirds of their income are simply taken away by the NAV, the pressures are enormous. And food produced locally must be helped and supported in this country, we will not be able to create a strong country and a strong Hungary if you continue this policy. In addition - and here is a fundamental debate between us - you have tried to cut the rent, a lot of people couldn't profit from it, but we say that wages should increase and that we can pay the resources we actually use. And this artificially low-level wage government, you're the government that's been keeping wages artificially low in this country for five years now, they're saying that we can only finance it on credit. That's not true. This, which we have placed on the table and calculated factually - and we will obviously meet our arguments in the form of budgetary amendments - shows precisely that Hungary, in its current state, could produce that these terrible situations that have evolved will change. You just don't want it.
u2015-05-26-250	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The submission is T/4477. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that the Parliament is discussing the proposal as a minority item. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/4477/9. they have been granted a serial number. Report on the detailed debate of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary as committee on the subject of the debate T/4477/10. received on a serial number. The Government initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee, the submission T/4477/11. They must have known him by serial number. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/4477/12. by serial number T/4477/13 and the summary report by T/4477/13. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in a total time frame of 60 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, rapporteur of the committee, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-05-26-251	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the 2015 central budget is justified by the fact that the Government has recently taken a number of decisions requiring the financial coverage of these measures. According to the proposal, the total budget expenditure would increase by HUF 61 billion, while the total revenue would increase by HUF 46 billion. In line with this, the cash flow deficit of the central budget would increase by HUF 15 billion. A number of measures were not foreseen when the budget was planned last year and should therefore be included in the budget ex post. Such an unforeseen, unpredictable event was the participation of our country in the international coalition against the terrorist organization Islamic State in Kurdistan. The expected cost of military engagement will be HUF 10 billion, which is why it is justified to raise the defence budget. The decision on the Erbil mission was voted by more than two thirds of Parliament, with eight independent Members voting in favour of Fidesz-KDNP. If we say it, let us also say it, the responsibility is complete if we also express responsibility with budgetary support. I urge all those who voted in favour of the Erbil mission to vote in favour of this budget. [[18.50]] A second major item in the amending budget is the acquisition of the minority ownership of Erste Bank. The state's objective is to support economic growth through the active lending of a large bank with a higher capital and long-term commitment to the Hungarian market. In cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the state intends to acquire 15 percent minority ownership in the Hungarian subsidiary of Erste Bank. The exact purchase price is unknown and will be based on an independent evaluation, which is why the bill allows for a more flexible adjustment of expenditure appropriations for the acquisition of ownership. The agreement can give further impetus to the Hungarian economy through the strengthening of lending. So what's this property for? The government intends to manage the reduction of the bank tax together with the expansion of lending. This requires active involvement in banks through which lending can be encouraged and the State intends to participate actively. Here you can see foresight and the strengthening of the right decision-making process. I ask you to see the same in this decision. In addition, the acquisition of the bank ownership is assumed to be a financial transaction according to the Union methodology and can therefore be balance-neutral. A third major item relates to the development of transport. The development of transport is essential for growth, competitiveness and social mobility, and therefore the government intends to implement road development at an increased pace in the coming years. In order to allow all cities with county rights to join the motorway network by 2018, and to build motorways up to the border, it is necessary to provide additional resources beyond the integrated operational programme for the development of transport. In order to speed up investments, the government not only creates resources, but also submitted a complex bill to Parliament concerning a number of legal areas and institutions. Thanks to this bill, the planning and licensing phases of road development of major importance for the national economy will be simplified and lead times will be shorter, which will accelerate investment overall. It is an ambitious plan for cities with county rights to reach an expressway, as important sections of taxpayers' money are planned to be built by 2018 and by 2020 across the country. One of these is the M44, M85 road, and one of the cities with county rights is that Szombathely, Salgótarján, Sopron, Szolnok, Kaposvár, Békéscsaba, Eger and Zalaegerszeg are currently not able to reach the expressway or four lanes. Of these, Szombathely will be available on the new M86 highway in the autumn of 2016. It is planned to be made in the summer between Győr M85 and Csorna, and between the M56 Szeleste-Hegyfalu. The rest will be handed over next year, and the road between Szombathely and Szeleste has already been built. In the same way we can talk about Salgótarján, Kaposvár, the section between the M85 Győr-Csorna. According to the government's plans, the motorway between Eger and M3 will also be connected by 2018. Towards Zalaegerszeg, the M7 would require the development of main roads 75 and 76. This component of the programme was not attacked by anyone in the Commission. It is quite clear that this development of the road network has a key economic development impact. This also coincides with the 60 per cent development goals of EU aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. The road network development I outlined earlier concerns over a million and a half people. An elemental sense of belonging could be strengthened if all the Members voted in favour. We could set a national minimum in this regard. The fourth item is support for municipalities that did not participate in debt consolidation. The motion before us sets out a positive measure in this case. They will be able to apply for priority development aid under a four-year programme. The government has allocated HUF 9.7 billion for this year. The programme is four years old, so the full programme cannot be counted from the first year. The programme itself and that amount are fair and proportionate. I ask you to accept it, even because the goals have been complemented by a very important element, this is job creation. This is included in the draft amending budget proposal. The fifth major item on which the debate was held is the long-term stabilisation of the financial situation of public transport in the capital city. This debt settlement is essential because loans that expire in 2015 need to be settled. Therefore, BKV Zrt. The State will take over its accumulated debt from previous periods, HUF 52,3 billion. Several opposition politicians have thrown in the government's eyes unprepared. It's as if they don't know the story that the financial problems of BKV, BKK, have been going back two decades. As if they didn't know that Budapest's public transport carries 1.37 billion passengers per year, with 5.1 billion passenger kilometres. They're gigantic numbers, a huge system. It is now necessary to settle the debts due this year, and it is now clear that BKK, BKV, is on a path that leads to the sustainable development of the public transport system in the capital. In fact, I also have other news: support for public transport in the capital is not merely a subsidy, since in return, the capital handed over the area of the Dagály Swimming Pool, where the 2017 World Swimming Championship is held, free of charge. The World Swimming Championship was voted 97 percent by the Hungarian Parliament, so we should have a national unity in relation to the debt relief of the capital community for decades. Coming up on the sixth topic. A large bidding was launched, even though for the free preschool children's meals, which will be extended from 1 September 2015, all maintenance groups will receive a total of HUF 58 billion from this amending budget for the additional tasks. In 2014, the municipalities received HUF 52.6 billion and HUF 28.7 billion in 2010. In this case, a large-scale bidding has started, forgetting that this government has increased the norm of mass catering by 50 percent over the past few years and is taking steps towards healthy feeding. I ask that this area, which is very important for our children, should not be a political battlefield. Development is obvious, but the extension is also an absolute positive process. Instead of licking wood and bidding on each other, I would like to welcome together this extraordinary increase and the paradigm shift in the field of feeding. The seventh item is about the level of the law enforcement and defence salary base. The amendment of the law will determine the extent of this from 1 July 2015. If we do not accept this with national agreement, how can public order, public security or effective defence be claimed? Finally, here is the HUF 11.7 billion of the Városliget project that triggered the biggest debate. The City Park Act was passed by a large majority by Parliament. It is legal to sacrifice to continue. Anyone who rejects the whole thing doesn't see how bad the City Park is. He does not want to accept the simple fact that the planned buildings are not placed in the green areas, but either on huge enveloped surfaces or in the place of existing, physically and morally obsolete buildings. And the growth of green land is simple mathematics. It is enough to think of military parades, tank loads and green surfaces on the concrete surface of Dózsa György út in the 1950s. Thank you for the details of the Secretary of State responsible for public finances regarding the division of the lot. Everyone speaks only against the planned museums, although this is only half the amount in the present presentation, even though the development of existing institutions is an almost one billion HUF item, including the Museum of Transport, the Metropolitan Circus, the Olaf Palme House. Or the related investment sub-programme includes the national museum restoration and storage centre with almost 1.4 billion, the restoration of the Museum of Fine Arts and the Romanian Hall with 1.2 billion. [[19.00]] This is the last World War II wound, so it's more than half a century of debt, so I think it's a national matter, just like the previous ones. No one can seriously believe that the City Park does not need a fundamental infrastructure renewal, and the draft will spend 830 million forints on it. The renewal of Városliget requires significant improvement, which is the way through this program. You can still argue about it, but now it's more about detail. In conclusion, the Budget Council expressed its view that it had no objections to the above measures, the amendment of revenue and expenditure appropriations does not pose a risk to enforceability. The Council draws attention to the need for further management discipline in addition to the favourable macroeconomic and public finances processes over the period up to this year to ensure that the planned general government deficit target and the sovereign debt rule are met safely. I must say that the decent, contained revenue and expenditure approach of the 2015 budget planning leads to a margin of manoeuvre, which is also the basis for this amendment. The budget is not carved in stone, the amendment is dictated by life, adaptation is lifelike and necessary. I propose the adoption of an amendment to the 2015 budget adopted by Act C of 2014. Thank you for your attention. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin is applauding. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-05-26-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion is presented by three speakers in a total of 30 minutes' time frame: László Szakács, MSZP; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik and Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, in that order. I'm gonna ask you if you've thought of it equally, so 10 to 10 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2015-05-26-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will also give a group opinion, so I will not merge the two now, because I do not want to deviate from my minority opinion on the Committee on Budgets. I think that we can make a lot of criticism of the majority opinion that we have before us, and I also think that there is a reason for these criticisms to be put on the table, and that is why they have been formulated. In relation to the purchase of a 15 billion HUF stake in Erste Bank, I will also say here, as we said before, we also said in November last year, when the Hungarian State takes part in a service provider on the competitive market, it can never serve the interests of Hungarians. I believe that budget resources should be used where there is no other service provider: these funds should be spent on education, health and social services, not on buying shares in companies, companies or credit institutions that are otherwise present and providing on the market. In recent years, in the last government as well as last year, the Hungarian state has spent about a thousand billion forints on this, starting from MOL to Erste now, through Antenna Hungária. I do not think that the Hungarians will make life any easier, and there are obviously deals in the background, which we cannot see all the details of ourselves. We have taken the position and we believe that in these areas, where the relevant players of the competition sphere are present, the government should deal with appropriate regulation and enforcement of regulation, not the purchase of these companies, whether in whole or in part. We can, of course, talk about Erste or E.ON, or we can talk about Antenna Hungária, but obviously we can only talk about Erste in connection with this law. With regard to BKV, the fact that the loss could not be avoided and now we have managed to spread this kind of loss, I think it is very, very difficult to agree with that. After all, this is a priority and important objective that my fellow Member has said, and we believe that public transport is very important for the capital, but there are also more cities and countries with public transport, yet I believe that the BKV has a certain role to play, but it is not so distinguished that it is now spreading this responsibility to all Hungarian taxpayers. I must reflect on the fact that the operation of the BKV and the BKK has become sustainable even when expressing the minority opinion, which is a baroque exaggeration. So now the budget is paying 52.2 billion forints so that BKV and BKK can renew their loans; not to pay it, not to buy new, I don't know, buy buses or go on a new route, so that they can renew their loans and renew their operating loans. I believe that this is at least a baroque exaggeration from my fellow Member in this regard. We had proposals for children's meals and the social sphere during the budget negotiations in November 2014. Then we proposed to include HUF 15 billion in the budget, plus HUF 30 billion in the social sphere. I believe that now, today in Hungary, there are much bigger problems in the social sphere, in health and in education, I would like to highlight again, where nothing else is available, only the Hungarian state provides and has a service obligation. The problems there are much bigger than a few billion forints to solve here. I also said at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets: you are now looking for HUF 3.5 billion, and that we have written it down not in bidding, my fellow Member, but by experts, and, of course, published that it would cost almost HUF 19 billion a year. In a budget of EUR 17 000 billion, it would cost HUF 19 billion, which would cost the Hungarian state HUF 7 billion from the launch of this year's September, with just half of which you have put into the budget. So our position is that this will not be enough. We believe that the HUF 15 billion that we proposed would be enough with our proposal to set or amend it. On the social sphere, I think that today has been quite a talk, and I will, of course, explain it better than the faction opinion. We believe that the funds should be transferred there, not to prestige investments. We understand the Liget project, we understand the importance of it, and as you said, we have received it in tabular form. But I think that if it were to be renovated there, say, the Museum of Transport, a small museum would be solved, we believe that it would not seem to be a prestige investment yet, but rather a modest government measure that would facilitate normal operation, with which it would be very easy to agree. But as in the entire budget, as in all of your operations, it is very well seen in this series of measures, by the way, that you will lose resources from anyone to try to show the government's prestige, not just by building, stone, statue, anything else or even deep parking in the Liget, the prestige of this government, the potential of this government. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. But with this costing more than HUF 10.3 billion in the budget, the taxpayers' forints, when they offer just half of what even experts say for children's meals, I think it might be worth reconsidering these rates. It would be worth thinking that there are bigger problems in Hungary today than which prestigious investment that looks good, can be photographed well, and we do not know whether it is sustainable, whether or not the children will receive food or whether they can carry out the wage increase in the social sphere, or how many times the National Defence Fund has been promised, which is 60 billion forints in the chapter of the Prime Minister's Office. All these things should be considered. That is why we have said that this budget amendment is unprepared, hasty and hasty. We believe that it does not hit the priorities, but simply, as my fellow Member said, reacts. This is not what we expect from a budget change or a budget management to react, but we expect it to plan, direct policy, aim at the right political priorities, and implement them rather than react. [[19.10]] I think we're doing well when we draw attention to them. We also drew attention to this in December 2014, before the budget was adopted, they even said that it was a well-built and very good budget. We said that we would change this very soon. Our committee discussed it about a month ago, and I think that we are here at the end of May, and we are already changing it, not even half a year of this budget, which is why there were predictable items, and I think the rest is rushing. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-26-254	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik.
u2015-05-26-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to present my minority opinion here with the House, as expressed in the Committee on Budgets. I would like to start by saying that the author is in violation of almost all the written and unwritten budgetary principles, i.e. those based on customary law, such as the principles of transparency and reasonable detail. I would like to list these here in detail, to present them to you in such a way that the things that I would like to miss or mention in a shorter way will be mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpath, in his regular speech. I would like to turn to the BKV in a short time, which is about taking over the debt of HUF 52 billion with HUF 290 million in principal, and, however, I would like to make this clear immediately, and we believe that public transport in the capital is absolutely to be supported. In this form, we consider this proposal to be unprepared, unfounded, and we believe that the increase in public debt in this regard is unacceptable. I would add that the justification in the bill is that this HUF 52 billion capital injection must be given to BKV Zrt. because the deadline for repayment of the loan has expired, that is all, done, it is in no way acceptable to us and it is not enough. After all, the world must forgive me: is it a surprise to the government that this loan will expire this year? So last year, let's say, in December 2014, when we voted on the budget, you didn't know that this was going to happen? Did you now have to face this surprising fact that the deadline for the loan taken out in 2012 is now running out? I don't really get it. And that is why HUF 52 billion is a significant enough item to give us a proper, fair explanation and to deserve it from the government. But I'm going to go on, the government is planning an additional HUF 3 billion to support the social, child welfare and child feeding tasks of the municipal authorities, because a relevant law will be amended from 1 September in order to make nursery and kindergarten meals free. We believe that this HUF 3 billion will not be enough. I will also explain to Mr Secretary of State what I said to Mr Banai. Mathematics is extremely simple, the story is that if this task is required at roughly 18-20 billion per year, we are convinced for the period from 1 September that 6-7 billion forints is the minimum amount required for the municipalities. Because as we know, you want to transfer this task to the local authorities. But if the necessary resources are not added, a significant loss of resources is expected, this task will not be performed fairly, properly, and the health of children will be threatened by the government, let us say it. This is an extremely irresponsible and unacceptable attitude on your part, Mr Secretary of State, and it would be very good for someone to give us an honest answer on what kind of background study you have based on when these 3 billion forints were recorded in the draft budget law. I think that if we think that about 90 percent of children will be entitled to a free children's meal in kindergarten, in kindergarten, by raising the income limit to 89 thousand forints/person per family, then this is a basic piece of information that you should be able to stick to, and it would not be so difficult to calculate how much of this really necessary amount you should provide. I go on: Annex 3, point 2, an additional point 10 is added to the Finance Act, as the government intends to put the amount of aid for the development of local authorities in the order of HUF 9.7 billion. These are the municipalities that have not benefited from debt consolidation. That's interesting, because, by the way, with the momentum of packing 9.7 billion on this line, they're losing 6 billion on another line, but you're so eager to announce how much money you're giving these settlements that just now! Not to mention the original promise to give 12.5 billion. So you're still missing a few billion forints, Mr. Secretary of State, and this calls into question your credibility. Yeah, well, it's a shame to shake a head, and that's true, because I'll tell you why. Because, in the next year's budget law, they want to give 12.5 billion, and in the previous year 12.5 billion, and even at the time of the debt consolidation, they promised that each year, for the next 4-5 years, they would give 12.5 billion. And you say that according to development needs it will be enough for 9.7 billion forints. Then how do you know that? Come on, tell me about it. Now, let's move on, because there is an extremely exciting point to this bill, this Liget Budapest project, which was previously planned by the government for HUF 8 million. However, for one magical strike, you are planning to spend 10 billion 350 million forints. Here, for a long and long time, I got into a pointless debate with Secretary of State Banai, because I wanted to learn from him that I think 8 million forints is a lot of money, so how much money is 10 billion. Still, if you could just tell me what you want to spend this 10 billion forints on. There must be a list of projects behind this 10 billion forints, and we argued and argued, and I didn't even get the table, just when the last deadline was up, and the meeting of the Budget Committee was over, and I got it, and I'll show it to you. And the very first line, in which you had to face it immediately, is that you, by the way, in another line of the bill, the public collection line is dedicated to HUF 1 billion and HUF 358 million in addition. So, in fact, this Liget project will not cost the early, hardworking little man 10 billion forints, but more than 11 almost 12 billion forints overall. And for example, they're going to want to spend money on things, so don't go, because here comes the most interesting part. [[András Tállai: I hear you!]] , 2.7 billion forints, which is the building of the new National Gallery; which, as we know, is the replica of the Oslo National Opera House. How interesting it was when the tender documentation was opened, and it turned out that it was an existing building, not so far from Hungary, so it wasn't the other anti-rotational point of the globe bis, but it wasn't too far from us. Numerous of us have already seen it, and it wishes to build the same building as a national gallery here in Hungary, without a licensed plan, without a permit or a license, and without the technical permissions, neither has the public procurement of the construction been carried out. Even so, this year, we are already at the end of May, and you can still think of spending 2.7 billion. How can we do that if the laws are taken seriously? This is incomprehensible to me, and I cannot really understand it, and it will be very good if the Secretary of State answers to me now. At the same time, I must add that the government claiming to be national and Christian to Regnum Marianum, which is said to be replica and cannot be rebuilt... - so interesting, there is no such difference of taste in the Oslo Opera House, only at Regnum Marianum they feel that it cannot be rebuilt. The archaeological research of that sub-church in this list is not intended for a single penny. [[19.20]] Dear Secretary of State, Instead of talking to my fellow Member László, please answer me how this is done, how you imagined it, because this was also promised in a previous debate. Then they spend 2 billion HUF on additional projects such as the rent payment to an offshore company because Városliget Zrt. Other than an offshore company, he couldn't rent an office. Overall, more than 400 million forints will go to the blessed operation of this company. But I would like to say further: we will spend 30 million forints on safe use of the park this year, as well as on the smart environmental management sub-programme - well, 50 million forints will go to that. Then there are also interesting and surprising data. To conclude, I'll tell you one more thing: the grove equipment and construction sub-programme. You spend more than 9 billion on construction, and there is also a subprogramme for such constructions for 262 million forints. For what? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-256	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-05-26-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Unfortunately, this bill confirms what we have already indicated in the debate on the 2015 draft budget, that it was not properly prepared, that the 2015 budget was not well prepared, that it was not well prepared, that it was not well established. This is why the budget needs to be adjusted after a few months. One example is the increase in salaries for judicial and prosecutorial staff, which the government side rejected in December, and now it has included this possibility in the law. But it's also proven by the fact that the 10th. In paragraph 29, points (a) to (z) which correct the wrong wording and inaccuracies of the law in autumn are listed. If this had been done well then, these mistakes should not have been made. Once again, it's the revenge of the reject, the failure of the fidesz rushing, quick legislation, when it's usually necessary to do everything twice or three times. The lesson from this is that their intention to create the 2016 budget now is frivolous, on the grounds that this creates predictability. We believe that predictability can be created if there is credibility behind the plans and their words, that they really change things, or that they have the ability to put down timeless plans. We see that the Fidesz government is not characterised by any of them. Moreover, timeless plans would require a more predictable, predictable international environment, which is changing rather quickly, and not least it would be useful to know the facts of this year's budget for next year's planning, at least three quarters of the year. There are positive points in the bill, but also amazing, almost grotesque imbalances. Erste Bank has already been mentioned by my opposition colleagues, which is worth 15 billion and is also very irritating to the Liget project, plus HUF 10.6 billion. This also indicates the government's preferences for what is important to him. Unfortunately, there is more to prepare the megaloman plan for Budapest, which began without any agreement, than to increase the shameful wages of school and kindergarten workers or to develop all responsible local governments. Support for the Liget Budapest project is particularly important, because the use of the budget reserve for this purpose is totally unacceptable to us. This project was fundamentally wrong, because in the first decision to install museums, they did not look at the possibilities, they did not consult either the profession or the people. The LMP does not say that ecological renewal of the Liget is not necessary. Yes, that is necessary, but the costs of the organic renewal of the Liget are far, far, far from what this whole megaloman project would require with 150-160 billion. We therefore believe that pouring 10.6 billion of this budget into such an unfeasible project is not right and shows very well how money is wasted unnecessarily. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-26-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[András Tállai: No.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance, MEP László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-05-26-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the minority opinion, I have covered a lot of things, but there is something worth repeating, because I think that it is with due weight and, on the other hand, I would like to mention other things. Firstly, I would like to reiterate the example of the Erste Bank that we have already had a debate on, and I think that this position is worth saying as many times as possible. Where there is an appropriate operator, it should not be provided by the State. We believe that the state must act there with appropriate regulators and proper enforcement of them, not purchase ownership rates. Only at the end of last year, we spent 152 billion of Hungarian taxpayers' money buying companies that Hungarians didn't need. Antenna Hungária worked very well, and E.ON worked very well. These issues need to be properly regulated, then the rules must be monitored and enforced, and sanctions should be envisaged, and not any kind of property acquisition with a background in which - we believe - the Hungarian State or the Hungarian taxpayers are not interested. This is the current HUF 15 billion spent on Erste Bank. Everyone here obviously has some idea that when we talk about the year of bank accountability, because that's what you say everywhere in propaganda, then that, no, we only get into a bank with a 15 per cent public participation as a Hungarian state. I think it's worth thinking about for 15 billion forints. It is also the peculiarity of this proposal and of the amending budget that lurks within it. Where there is much to be given - in the social sphere, in the feeding of children - the promises you made in the spring of 2014 when you promised anyone anything, just vote for you, are now not being kept. Some budgetary resources are promised for a long time, and, of course, it comes to government prestige investments. This is how I see the Liget Budapest project. If it is done in a normal, tangible budgetary framework, after planning to promote normal operation and step by step renewable, designing it, socialising and involving the locals much better, then I think you would do the right thing. But they don't, because that's not what you do, but you miss a lot of steps, and that's when you come up with proposals like this one, that you spend a little more than HUF 10.3 billion on the Liget, that's what you have set up here. As we have heard from the previous speech, from a minority opinion, this has been pushed by 1.3 billion, because we are talking about an investment, where anything can happen. With him, you will spend 3.5 billion forints on meals for children, of course, throughout the country. I do not think that it is possible not to feel the weight of spending 3.5 billion on children's meals, and we will spend 12 billion forints on prestige investments in the Liget. To get people with disabilities to work - of course you should be happy with all the forints you give to flexibility, because they don't give it to you - at the end of 2014, we made an amendment to this budget to raise it by 5 billion, because it was not the promise bid that my fellow Member mentioned, but we would have held this budget line at the level of 2014. [[19.30]] You didn't accept this, and for some reason, you're still giving me $2 billion. You have to be happy with all the forints, I'll say it again, because you don't give them as gifts, but it would be nice if you could at least reach the 2014 level. Of course, priority road investments should also be welcomed by each source. I think that this is a national minimum, as my fellow Member said, once again a baroque exaggeration. I think that there are many places in Hungary where transport is bad or worse than in Szombathely and Sopron. I've just been there, and it really needs that neighborhood, but this country has a lot of these neighborhoods. I believe that to the national minimum, to the national agreement, this may not be enough. I'll tell you again at the meal: we don't say, experts say, that this problem can be solved from 19 billion forints a year. In particular, if you come up with such standards and canteen regulations as to how much healthier this should be, health costs money; taxpayers, I'm sure, would be more willing to sacrifice for this than, say, prestige investments in the Liget. A pro rata part of this would be HUF 7 billion if introduced from 1 September. It would now be worth 3.5 billion forints. BKV Zrt. I'm talking about your case. The Hungarian state is taking over HUF 52.29 billion. Well, it was a very lame argument, which we heard, that in return, the municipality of Budapest gave to the Hungarian State the areas needed to organize the water-vb, and that is why we should be pleased. And in fact, I wrote that I should remember that we also supported the water and water tournament by 97%, and that the arrangement of the BKV's credit should become the same national business. I would like to point out again, it's not that the BKV wouldn't be in debt after all. This is about giving him nearly 53 billion forints, more than 52 billion in order to renew his new loans. This was elegantly jumped by my fellow Member and said that the loans had to be settled. Yeah, well, we're gonna have to hire them again. Now, this will certainly be a national case, but it will not be 97 percent, but 100 percent national case, because you will spread the BKV's debt among all Hungarian taxpayers. I don't think that's necessarily a welcome thought. The law enforcement and the provision of the civil protection stipend and the kind of argument they said would start with the issue of wage management, we see here that the 60 billion forints that are available for this are already distributed once when the hospital debt had to be settled once more when the police had to give this money to the police. Neither will be sufficient, and I think those who have believed will be disappointed. I have one more thing to say. It does not include the additional HUF 15 billion promised here by Secretary of State Czibere that the HUF 15 billion for the social career model could be spent on wage increases in the budget. This one didn't show up either. In this it seems that you are rushing, making a promise to someone, sometimes keeping it, such as the Erste Bank, such as the BKV, such as the Liget, which takes away a lot of resources, but, for example, you forget the promises made to social workers and social workers because you have missed a ratio. That is why we will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-26-260	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, betterman.
u2015-05-26-261	Mr President, Dear House, We are part of a kind of clown, because tomorrow we would start discussing the new budget, while the government is whittling the previous one, we have not even heard of closing accounts, it cannot account for the tax forints in its hands, and we have now come to the conclusion that it will certainly begin to negotiate the next one. We can also see that you have also not heard of the rules, the other rules, or the pro rata performances, and you can also see, as my fellow Member Enikő Hegedűs cornered Mr. Secretary of State, there is only one answer to all the perfectly logically built proposals where to applaud the extra items that are either overlapping with each other or that are completely unreasonable and lifeless in connection with the Liget project at the end of 11 billion. With regard to the BKV, it is important to say something. You are now trying to make a commitment out of the Hungarian taxpayers' money, against which no guarantee element will be incorporated here or anywhere else. How do you expect to pay this debt without guaranteeing that it will not be re-produced? What is the guarantee that, in two years' time, when we are here in a similar debate, Hungarian taxpayers will not be asked for another HUF 50 billion to pay the costs of their own malfunctions to the Hungarian people, instead of finding those responsible among themselves in this area? But the roughest part of the package is probably a stake in Erste Bank. Secretary of State, tell me how much this package is worth to the Erste Bank, how much this package is worth. You don't know that, do you? The fact is that the appropriation is open from above, so they cannot even tell us how much of the Hungarian taxpayers' money they want to spend on it. And you dare to say that we are discussing unforeseen elements now? Things you didn't know might arise in mid-2015? In the case of the costs of military action against the Islamic State, this may still be justified and may arise. But all the other items? You didn't know the need for a free meal? Buying Erste Bank? How is it that you do not have a reprivatisation strategy, which, say, ten years ahead, stepwise, with a price-to-value ratio, by examining what, what kind of assets, for whom, and by what means of use do you intend to acquire? Once again, if not, it raises certain questions after almost five years of two-thirds government. Once again, we are talking mostly about predictable items, we are talking about items on which these negotiations should not be conducted now, in a fair budgetary debate we should have done at that time. In the absence of a reprivatisation strategy, I guarantee you that in the next series of debates starting tomorrow, you will not be able to come forward with meaningful explanations as to why you are asking for allowance. In tomorrow's debate, the government asks for hundreds of billions of forints of pocket money, which the Parliament will vote for, and then the government will decide in its own power what it spends on. Otherwise, I will not reveal a great secret by saying that there are hundreds of billions of items in the next draft budget that could be used bravely for the benefit of the Hungarian people, for their welfare, and not for their own use. We must also say that, in connection with the purchase of Erste Bank, we do not know not only whether you have carried out fair investigations as to what, how much and whose interests you are buying, but there is also a very different aspect in your reasoning. The government is acting together with the EBRD and it can be seen that there are very serious issues with regard to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A very serious question arises, Mr Secretary of State, about what happened in February. Where have you been with the EBRD? What did they sign? Did they sign an agreement? How can Hungarian state-owned banks act and not act in this agreement? Is it not included, by chance, because the document is in front of us, but does it also include that you, in the so-called rescue measures, are no longer burdening banks, because of the exchange rate change on the banks concerned? And you're not gonna guarantee that if you buy one of these assets, within three years or three years later, they're gonna push it back to the market, and they're gonna sell it to someone? Who do you intend to sell the pakette to that you're buying, and we don't even know how much? For whose sake are they doing this? Is there an agreement behind all this with the organisation concerned? Will they tell Hungary from outside how to proceed in this matter or not? An English-language agreement can be found on the Internet about your meeting in February. The question is whether you deny it, or if you honestly, honestly now press a button, stand up, tell us what this agreement is. Does the agreement on the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development affect the current Erste bank acquisition and affect the room for manoeuvre of the Hungarian government in any way? Yeah, well, there are some very serious questions. [[19.40]] Once again, we are talking about predictable budget lines. They are still not launching a home-building programme, since there is no real, genuine set of home-building budgets from the sources released. They still do not think about setting up a social bank account scheme, which would make it possible, even through the current banking network, for everyone to be able to bank virtually free by average payment, not to drain their already paid money with different card fees, account fees, fees, etc., or to charge them with real costs. The cost ratio of this would not be as brutal, it would not take as much as this package in its entirety. But obviously, these are not the aspects that arise before you, but the question arises whether these agreements with foreign organizations, possible pacts, the pact with the Hungarian Banking Association, affect your room for manoeuvre. Even when buying a bank, even when buying a part of it, the question arises, therefore, about the commitments that the government has made, perhaps those that we do not know about, what the openness of the appropriations from above can mean to the Hungarian taxpayers' wallet, and there are many other questions. I was only able to add a little bit to the question of Enikő Hegedűs, but I think it would be fair, Mr Secretary, to press that button, to remove these doubts and to give a fair answer. If you cannot properly account for the taxpayers' money for a period of time, but as a result of voting on an earlier law, how do you expect from tomorrow to vote for your trust by means of a lengthy series of debates, your vote in favour not only of the experts behind you, but also of your credibility, your work. We are quite simply now at a point where we will be asked of this without closing record, of course, so they could not account for the previous periods on paper either, but at least for these emerging and absolutely eye-pricking problems not only we ask, but we demand that they be distributed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by a committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a German spokesman, in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-26-263	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, das geehrte Parlament, über die Meinung des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten informieren. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to inform this House of the Committee's opinion. T/4477 submitted an amendment to Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 There are only two points - narrowly interpreted - from the legislative proposal No 10 - that have a prominent impact on national self-governments, namely the 10th century. § (t) and (u). According to these two points of the Finance Act, the amount of aid unduly used by local national authorities on the basis of the treasury review and the audit of the State Court of Auditors will increase the municipal chapter reserve in the fiscal year, and the amount of interest due to local self-governments may also be charged to the municipal chapter reserve. In other words, the amendment lists local self-governments as local authorities in the case of repayment obligations and the payment of any interest or remuneration due to them. This addition to the regulation was obviously required by the fact that the State Audit Office of Hungary was granted a licence in 2013 to examine local national authorities, on the basis of which an investigation of the magnitude of 100 was carried out in 2013 and 2014, and the financial settlement of the so-called results of the investigations had to be regulated by law, which, of course, we agree with. However, a comment must be made to this end. The efforts of the last two or three years to draw on and apply the management rules of local governments with predominantly 130 to 200 thousand forints of annual income in the majority of municipalities with hundreds of millions, sometimes tens of billions of dollars in revenue, are completely unviable. The disproportionate and unnecessary monthly, quarterly, annual reports, the pressure of local self-governments to use or impose obligations on grants for the year in question, the prohibition of reasonable savings and the continuation of reasonable savings in relation to local ethnic authorities are pointless, pointless, contrary to their basic responsibilities. We will do everything we can to ensure that these pointless and disproportionate management standards for local national authorities are modified in the near future. At the same time, the majority of the proposed legislation is indirectly, not only in these two points, but also in more detail, but still directly and to a much greater extent affects nationalities living in Hungary in two further respects.1. Supplementary support for the educational work of kindergarten educators and kindergarten educators is, of course, also affected by national preschools maintained by local authorities and local and national minority self-governments. We welcome the expansion of support, and we consider it particularly important, because in preserving our mother tongue and identity, national minority kindergartens have and will have a key role to play in preserving our mother tongue and identity in the coming decades. 2. We also welcome additional support for free meals for children receiving kindergarten care. The extension of free kindergarten meals also directly affects all national preschools, but also all children in non-ethnic kindergarten are in need. I don't think I need to stress either that, of course, in this case, it is not the nationality indicator, but the needy one that is important. In view of this, and on the basis of this, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary submitted an amendment to Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/4477. It agrees with and proposes adoption. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-26-264	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Tamás László to speak in two minutes or 17 minutes. [[For signal:]] Two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I know that understanding, learning, and loving modern architectural works is not an easy thing to do. Let me remind you that Ödön Lechner designed the Museum of Applied Arts, they shouted snakes and frogs at him, and now we remember him at a fantastic memorial exhibition, and we want to put his work in the lines of national heritage. The design of this National Gallery was the result of a very long process, in which two applicants won the first prize. I must say that the process of planning, the result of which was the selection of plans for a world-famous Japanese and also world-famous Norwegian architecture by an international jury involving people of English, American, French and similar caliber, and the plans are indeed, I think, difficult to accommodate, but yet their architectural specialty is extraordinary. The Japanese plan may be more exciting in terms of museum pedagogy and museum travel, and it wishes to establish a very special relationship with the City Park itself. I think these are plans, whatever they are, that will be chosen by the public procurement procedure, which is worth building. The National Gallery itself and the Ludwig Museum do not build on the green surface, but in place of the Petőfi entertainment centre. I don't think the charge of installing a museum on the green surface is gonna hold. Thank you for your attention. [[19.50]]
u2015-05-26-266	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, who is obviously preparing to express his thoughts.
u2015-05-26-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am taking part in an extraordinary debate, because I was not involved in the general debate, but Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State, who submitted the budget and the amendment of the draft law on the central budget of 2015 and who defended the general debate, said his expo. But not only is the procedure irregular because, apparently, opposition parties are not really able to do what we do by amending a budget for a given year, and we are not modifying it because it is not true in a negative sense, because the revenue does not work because it is necessary to apply austerity because expenditure items must be withdrawn, they should be given to pensioners less than they did to socialists or civil servants, or they should be withdrawn from wherever they are, but vice versa: once the economy is doing well, the country is performing well, so it is possible to change the budget during the year and, according to the priorities set by the government, to amend the budget in a positive sense. There is clearly no way for the opposition to do so, even though the general debate could be said three times in a very specific and special way, because there was a normal general debate, now, as I have heard, in the Commission's opinion, a small general debate, and then the group could say it separately, but I think that many new ones were not said compared to what was said in the general debate. In fact, I have found that there has been very little mention of the amendments, even though the agenda is called the debate on the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. Instead, there were opposition arguments to the usual budget that what was in it was not good; it was not good, it was unprepared, it was wrong. What's in it isn't good, but there's not enough money, and the opposition wants more than that. But we've also heard that what's inside, instead of wanting something completely different, and besides, what's not in it, why isn't in it. And that is correct, the opposition does not need to support the budget and obviously does not need to change the budget. The opposition is simply doing its job and criticizing what the government wants. I'd like to thank you very much for that. As regards the specific things, I would like to say to Mrs Hegedűs Loránt that the government is fulfilling its promise to grant development aid to non-consolidated municipalities, the amount set out in a government decree, a higher amount was paid in 2014, because not only the settlements under the number of 2 thousand have received the allowance, but also many of those above the number of 2 thousand souls. Now, this year, in order to get us straight in 2014 and 15 and everyone who is not a consolidated settlement will have to be given less than 2 thousand people, because part of it has been paid in advance by the government in 2014, and that is why this amount is less, but, of course, as promised, it will also be paid next year, it is included in the budget for 2016 and in the following year. Whether the second half of the money rises or not, this will obviously be decided by the government, so the government will keep its word and promise. Thank you for your speech to László Szakács in MSZP. I am very pleased that I have learned what a baroque exaggeration is; now I am rich with it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Kács: That's a common term.]] He has repeatedly said that this budget amendment is excessive, but I would also like to say one particular thing to you. Indeed, the wage increase of social workers, which will take place from 1 July and will affect 65 thousand people, is not part of the budget, so the HUF 7.5 billion will be financed from the extraordinary government reserve under the government decision, so it is not part of this budget bill. I'd also like to say a sentence to the LMP. He said the 2015 budget was unprepared. No, the exact opposite is true, because if it were unprepared, then it would have to be undone, and here it is that we are dividing an extra resource. Yes, it was carefully planned, but the fact is that the economy has also done better, economic growth has become higher, and revenue sources have more to do with it, and this budget has been prepared, not as it has been in previous years, because the budget has been misthought and planned. As far as the amendments are concerned, six amendments were tabled by various factions, which were not supported by the government, but also tabled an amendment, which was also initiated by the Committee on Budgets and the Legislative Committee, for example, complementing the development support of the non-debt consolidation municipal authorities by using these resources for job creation developments. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for your activity, your speech, your amendment. I would ask the pro-government people - I suspect I would ask the opposition in vain - to vote on the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-268	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2011 CLXXXVII on Vocational Training. Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The submission is T/4475. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that the Parliament is discussing the proposal as a minority item. T/4475/41. by serial number and T/4475/42. they have been granted a serial number. T/4475/37. on order number T/4475/38. by serial number T/4475/39. T/4475/40. received on a serial number. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/4475/44. by serial number and summary report by T/4475/45. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. [[20.00]]
u2015-05-26-269	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training at its meeting on 21 May. Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education T/4475 on the amendment of law and related law. He submitted a bill and submitted an amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 6 abstentions. The draft amendment contains parts of the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture and the separate proposal of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which partially corrects the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture. While the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture clarifies the regulation of vocational training in the agricultural sector, the motion of the Committee on Culture contains mainly linguistic and codification clarifications. The adoption of the legislative committee's proposed amendment will allow for an apprenticeship to be concluded for all food professional qualifications. I would like to point out that, among other things, the proposal sets out the salary allowance for those who are the leaders of the vocational training centre's member institutions, and that, in the form of a empowering provision, the scholarship of the students participating in the VET Bridge programme and the allowance for teachers teaching them. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee clarifies the freeness of the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training. I hope that the bill before us, which introduces new types of vocational training institutions and the development of a new vocational training structure in the context of the review of vocational training, will contribute to the creation of vocational training in schools, in line with economic needs, with a competitive knowledge system. The only reason we trust this is because, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, there was no technical objection other than a single approach with absolute party political content in relation to the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask that you support these proposals. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-270	Thank you, Congressman. The Committee's minority opinion will be presented by two speakers in a total time frame of seven minutes. I'm guessing you'll share seven minutes with each other. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2015-05-26-271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Soon after the draft legislation on vocational training, we will also discuss the bill on public education. Since the Legislative Committee has negotiated the two legislative proposals together, I would like to express, if I may, the minority opinion on the two legislative proposals at the same time, since they are, in our view, interrelated and practically inseparable. The Parliament created the current education system in 2011, which was the implementation of the new education policy of Fidesz. We have already indicated that, in our opinion, this system is too closed, and we believe that centralisation is unrealistic and forced the transformation of such a system, which then occurred. The current two new legislative proposals virtually support what we said at the time, as this is the criticism of the previous ones. Since the operation and implementation of the KLIK system has been unsuccessful, today there is chaos in this area, the situation is getting worse and the situation of vocational training is also considered tragic. With the new proposals, we feel that the government or the Fidesz fraction did nothing but practically invent hot water, as it brings in forms of training that used to be, and now they will be again, such as 3+2 years of vocational training, which takes place in vocational secondary school or 4+1 years of vocational high school, which used to run as a technique. These are not new forms, they used to be; what was beaten up in 2011, is now being put back together again, but we wasted four years, and now we're back to where we started. The system operator, maintainer in the case of public education, is the CLIK, which is also your invention. Violently, everything is consolidated, centralised, but now they see that this new waterhead is inoperative, they have protected this system for years, they have unraveled it, and now they are starting to tear it apart because they realize it's not working, and this system has taken terrible money. Now they invent the Spanish wax, decentralize again, and create the KLIK II practically, which they have destroyed so far, they want to rebuild. We think that this is not the natural level of maintenance, the natural level of operation, but the walks, which is why we recommend you to be closer to life! Thank you.
u2015-05-26-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Fidesz - sorry, Jobbik.
u2015-05-26-273	Thank you very much for the correction. If we ignore Mr President's comment, it will soon become apparent from the minority opinion that we disagree with nothing in the position of Fidesz on two legislative proposals. If I may, Mr President and fellow Members, I will also speak together about these two legislative proposals, namely the 4476 and the 4475. In the Legislative Committee it was said as a minority opinion by the MSZP, as we have just heard, that the current changes essentially support the fact that previously the training system was inoperative, in essence the socialist representatives saw it in the failures of the last few years to prove that vocational training was misguided, which is why the change is necessary. Of course, the position on Klik II was expressed earlier, and indeed, the hot water inventor's position has been articulated several times in the debate. However, there is room for and place for better comments in this debate. Thus, Jobbik sees changes in its proposals in the context of institutional reforms relating to the transformation of vocational training, which are marked as institutional reform, which it cannot agree with. Let me just mention one of these: the creation of a vocational gymnasium, which basically means nothing more than a current secondary vocational school, will only mean more prestige. In addition, instead of growing prestige, people in this case will also be informed that they will have confusion in their minds, as it will cause a very large number of problems in terminology or conflicts by type of school, whether in teachers, students or students, which will not help the system clean up or good functioning. Unfortunately, the real transformations seem to be delayed, and the institutional levels are unfortunately transferred to a degraded mode. As regards the system of vocational training - this is the Bridge programme - the view was expressed that although the Bridge programme serves to catch up, to which the government could not, by the way, give a response during the conversions, neither at the Cultural Committee's meeting when it was directly asked, so that it could not give any tangible indication of the system under conversion, and rather than catching up, it seems that the Bridge programme in vocational training is certainly an uncertainty, or a problem point, problem point that will have to start with. It was also a cardinal question that the government did not support the possibility of the first vocational training being free of charge in adult education. This is also a serious criticism. For the time being, this is only possible in school-based training and vocational training, and there is also an important question of making the first vocational training free of charge in adult education. An important element of Jobbik's minority position is that vocational training should be at the service of children in order to prosper, but instead you said that vocational training should be in the service of the economy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Jobbik, by the way, has formulated its suggestions for improving it in the light of the fact that Jobbik's politicians have visited dozens of institutions to get information. This opinion, based on the opinion of the leaders of the institution, students, parents and teachers, should be heard, even if it will be expressed in the form of a minority opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-274	Thank you. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[András Tállai says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. [[20.10]]
u2015-05-26-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Cenjeni Državni Zbor! Mr President, Congresswoman and Lords! The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary considers the issue of education and education of future generations to be one of the most important parts of its work, in agreement with the leaders and representatives of national and local minority self-governments. It has a duty to exercise its right to exercise the right by the Government of T/4475. The 2011 CLXXXVII on Vocational Training When negotiating legislative proposals to amend law and related laws, it also sets out its views on the aspects of ethnicity clients, i.e. parents, pupils and potential employers. In Hungary, there are several geographically well-defined areas of some settlements where there is a higher proportion of the population belonging to a defined historical nationality compared to those belonging to a majority nation. At the same time, the economic development or backwardness of these areas is the assured or even vulnerable nature of the survival of the nationalities living there, as if our ethnic youth could not find the means of living there, they could move away, become break-ups with their ethnicity culture, and cause a further reduction in the number of ethnicities in Hungary that have become scarce because of different historical fates and situations. For nationalities too, the legal regulation of the functioning of today's Hungarian vocational training, the situation, opportunities and future of vocational training are crucial. Although our ethnic communities today are not in a position to engage in a decisive independent economic activity, vocational training in schools with a competitive knowledge system is also of paramount importance for nationalities. Within our communities, well-educated professionals, who also speak the language of nationality, will continue to play a major role in the future. We feel that the introduction of ethnic gymnasiums, vocational education and training of nationalities can be well integrated into the ideas of the reform of the institutional system of vocational education and training of the vocational education and training of nationalities. The training content of these types of institutions may and should provide a high quality teaching of nationality languages, which also serves the needs of professional languages, in specific situations. We are convinced that, for certain professions, it is necessary to go beyond traditional language learning and to continue basic bilingual education in vocational training, in practice-oriented training, it is also appropriate to teach certain educational content of professional theoretical subjects and practices in a minority language. Our main aim is to have the possibility of bilingual theoretical and practical training of certain disciplines in secondary institutions that also pursue ethnic education and education in line with the economic, social and labour market needs of the region, even if the institution as a whole is not or cannot be bilingual. The points on vocational education and training contributions and support for the development of training are proposed for our ethnic students at mid-level and ensuring their professional training. Our Commission welcomes the free acquisition of two professional qualifications in a public vocational training system, which offers our youth ethnicity more versatile skills and the opportunity to achieve a more secure career, and we hope that they will remain more secure in the ranks of their nationalities. We expect the public education and training bridge programmes to reduce the number of gaps due to social disadvantages, the possibility for vulnerable social groups to catch up, and the qualitative development of equal opportunities independent of nationality. Based on the experience gained in vocational education and training, it can be demonstrated that the need to strengthen dual training, the need to achieve high-quality practical training, justifies the restoration of a leading job in practice, which, due to its extreme complexity, is difficult to achieve through a person entrusted with additional assistant directors' duties. We expect the rules on the qualifications of vocational training teachers to allow them to move forward professionally, and hence the positive development of wages, also due to the fact that ethnic education teachers are involved. Our Commission expresses its hope that the planned changes have delayed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and up-to-date introduction of the collectives of institutions can be flexibly prepared, and student youth is not adversely affected by the changes introduced. Thank you for your attention. Hvala za posornost. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-276	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, and first I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, Fidesz.
u2015-05-26-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The transformation of vocational training was timely and necessary, which means the 2011 CLXXXVII. Law, the VET Act and the 2013 LXXVII. a law on adult education. Renewal of vocational training means changing content training in a better direction - this practice-oriented training - as well as giving greater attention to the specialization of vocational training, such as the training of deficiency professions, a greater opportunity. Renewal of management is also included in the amendment of the law. A flexible, efficient, vocational training centers are created by a management system that, on a territorial basis, together with schools and member institutions, forms a symbiosis. There is an extremely strong bill and a second chance for the legislators, and strong support for the provision of skills. I think, fellow Members, it is important for all of us to have as many skilled workers as possible in Hungary, because if we can improve skills, then it means jobs, not just simple skilled workers' certificates, but useful knowledge, jobs, and a safe living for that family, that person. Dear House, Allow me to make some refractions or some points that are at the heart of this amending proposal on the basis of background points. One of these is the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training, which needs to be addressed in a bit more detail, as the programme contains a number of novelties compared to the previous version. In general, she will be two years old, providing basic education and part-training to all successful young people, which can help young people learn more demanding and more sought-after professions as a second chance. What is new is that it can be launched at the age of two and a half, thus reducing the number of young people with no qualifications. What is new in the programme is the increase of the upper limit of participation in day-care education to the age of 25 - 21, earlier 23 - because, because we raised it or the law itself raises it to the age of 25 in training, at the same time, the VET Bridge programme is open not only to those who, by the age of 15-16, did not complete the 7th grade of primary school, but also to all young people leaving secondary education without qualifications. Yes, because if, at the age of 23, let us say, the young person sees or has a qualifying attitude that he cannot manage without a basic secondary education and a profession, he can still return to the VET Bridge programme in order to acquire qualifications and at least part qualifications while improving his ability to learn and be fit for work. The VET Bridge programme is two years old and means that, in terms of requirements, it is a unit that provides the young person with sufficient flexibility to fill the gaps and catch up. [[20.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let me tell you about an important novelty, the novelty of the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training, to motivate young people to participate in the programme with a scholarship to meet the requirements. One of the most important of these requirements is to continuously participate in the program that represents or aims at personal development, because only then can they achieve results. The proposal ensures that the work of teachers working with these young people is recognised with a bonus. Dear House, The bill states - and I think it is a great achievement, a great result - the freedom of second vocational training. As memorable, this was abolished during socialist government. In terms of second chances, this is very important for those who have skills that do not prove to be marketable. At the same time, the law also states how many school years this freeness applies. In my view, Mr House, the 47th background point of the amending proposal also introduces an important delegation for the Government in the form of a regulation, a student scholarship and a teacher's allowance. There is also an amendment to the right of agreement of the Minister for Education and Catch-up in certain regulatory areas of the VET Bridge Programme. This will allow educational and social aspects to be taken into account, in addition to vocational training aspects. Several points, the 27, 31, 50th background point is an important change compared to the bill, that the teaching of professional, theoretical and practical subjects can also be employed with a higher education degree who does not have a pedagogical degree if the job cannot be completed. What's the point? It eases the lack of vocational education. The amendment also allows for the conclusion of a learning contract in adult education and regulates the extent of it. I could also talk about the new rule of the track tracking system, the basis for young people's career choices, which can be a token of later success, but I do not do so, but briefly sum up the summation of the amendments: the bill, together with the modifiers, renews the content of vocational training, implements practice-oriented training; through the Chamber, market players are involved in this training, citation sign; it transforms, in my opinion, the governance structure in the right direction; it creates vocational training centres on a territorial basis, including vocational schools, vocational schools and vocational schools; it provides for second vocational training free of charge, thus reducing the number of deficiency professions; and the VET Bridge programme, in our opinion, helps to catch up and reduce drop-off. I think it's a good direction, and we support the bill in this way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-05-26-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just as minority opinions have been merged with virtually questions concerning public education, so I will consider this for a few reasons, but I will not go into it. As far as public education is concerned, it is obviously the right of every current government to operate the education system in what structure and structure it intends to operate, so here it wants to offer four plus one or three plus two systems as a virtual opportunity, either within the framework of vocational schools or within the framework of vocational secondary schools. I think that is not the point, but in the context of the general debate, when Secretary of State Czomba - whom I have just been looking for but could not find, I see that he was banned from today's agenda - spoke of high schools [[Péter Cseresnyés: He never talked about this!]] This one has a pandan, which is the issue of secondary gymnasiums, as well as the issues of public education. I think that this is basically a flawed approach, because how the system is built in its structure is not a priority and not a priority among the various institutional categories. But this is a form of approach from the former Secretary of State, which I think is absolutely wrong, not by accident that he no longer participates in the further debate. In line with the issue of vocational training and adult education, we can see that there are virtually two types of movements, and this is what my fellow Member from Vinna spoke about: one is the issue of training in practice and the other is attention and expansion to the training of deficiency professions. I would like to point out - not only to my colleague from Vinna, but also to my own - that I think it is right, personally, and I believe that not many of us in Parliament are debating that as many people who come to the labour market are not just theoretical, but are equipped with professional knowledge. However, it must be added, and this has also been shown in the context of the general debate and in the context of further discussions, that the conditionality of what we are now setting out as a requirement under this law should also be built. It will not be a practice-oriented way of training that is required by a law, but that there is a labour market environment that provides for this acquisition. In order for this to happen, Hungary would need a strong SME sector. So micro, small and medium-sized enterprises should be growing stronger from time to time, and life does not support this, but that in the last five years, the number of these enterprises is constantly decreasing from month to month, year to year, and there are months when 5,000 SMEs companies disappear, where appropriate. So this, I think, is not very promising. With regard to the training of deficiency professions, I think it is right that the way that will be drawn up in the current draft law is also right. I would like to add that, in the period prior to the five-year governance behind you, this practice was established within the framework of the Regional Training Committees and that there were support schemes in the training of deficiency professions that made it worthwhile to consider that a well-educated person could have obtained money and resources to acquire these skills. It is okay that if this goes on, I would just like to draw your attention to the need to strengthen the process in the future by taking into account and taking into account regional specificities. However, this should not necessarily be centralised, but rather decentralised, as my fellow Member Zsolt Legény spoke about in the context of minority opinions. So the large, non-centralized and non-skilled centres in our small country, our country of 93,000 square kilometres, should be called upon to live in a type of life that would weaken the process that would serve to compensate for the differences, but should bring the opposite to life. Another thing that relates to dual training: dual training, according to my judgement, once again, practical training is very important. But I would like to emphasise once again that this is only justified if businesses operating in Hungary are increasingly engaged in providing practical training places to conclude student contracts. I know that, going back ten years, the number of apprenticeships is constantly, if not very much, but it is a rising trend, but I would like to say that today 2% of existing Hungarian businesses do not provide a practical training place. [[20.30]] The problem is that the availability of practical training facilities is narrowed down in this sense, because it restricts the acquisition of real professional knowledge. In addition to dual training, I would also like to say that two systems that do not work are no better than one. In English, I mean KLIK, from which some 500 institutions are now being ripped away by the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office. I don't think this is going to solve what has been screwed up in recent years through the KLIK framework. Towards the end, I would like to say, in general, in line with the draft legislation on vocational and adult education, that it would also be okay for us to consciously consider what sets the course, which direction training should move. Is it just the needs of the labour market, or is there another, at least such an important issue? I think there's another question, at least that important. Adapting to labour market needs is important, but today there is no one in Hungary who can say in advance for five years what is needed in a profession or group of professions. Trends, trends can be drawn... [[László Kucsák intervenes.]] Press the button, we'll talk about it afterwards. Trends and trends can be drawn, but no one can tell. It should therefore not only serve to meet the needs of the labour market, but also to have the adaptability of the student concerned and then of the worker in relation to the future. The fact that, in the framework of flexible lifelong learning, lifelong learning or lifelong learning, there should also be openness, skill and ability for those studying today, in terms of continuous renewal. Today, I cannot read back from these draft laws. I don't know and I don't see how you're going to do this. Rather, I perceive and perceive centralization, and therefore we have a lot of reservations, in addition to seeing good elements in it, which I have mentioned, we have more reservations that the government is taking a good course in this respect. And the last thing I want to say is, if you want good training, you don't have to take out a source, you have to put in a source. That's not what the last five years have been about for you. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-280	Thank you, Congressman, notary. The next pre-notified speaker was Mrs Dóra Dúró, Mrs Jobbik.
u2015-05-26-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, They would, in particular, touch on two issues which my fellow Members were concerned with in their speeches. One of them is the transformation of the governance structure, the introduction of a new one, and I would like to express my thoughts and comments on the Bridge programmes and the. As regards the governance structure and the whole issue of maintenance, it is worth talking about KLIK itself. I do not want to talk about the things that are well-known to you, but perhaps one of the most important elements of the KLIK and the whole state reservation, and this is the need to equalise differences. When the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre was established or the schools became state-owned, one of the main legitimate reasons for this was to reduce the difference between schools, which is mainly due to local authorities' funding opportunities. This is why schools have become state-owned and public-funded. At the same time, we continue to see that local authorities continue to participate in the life of schools, whether with funding assistance, and create opportunities for children who come to the settlement, which the poorer municipalities still cannot provide. In this sense, the schools in the poorer settlement failed to catch up. It is very important to talk about this, because in the case of vocational education and training, a similar structure will be created, and vocational training centres will now be called the teaching districts there, but the basic principle and logic are the same. It was also said at the conference held by OFI at the end of April that the difference between the municipalities could not be reduced, since, on the one hand, the difference between the municipalities remained and remained in the life of education - which, by the way, I say in parentheses, do not misunderstand, I have no objection to the fact that a municipality is helping children and educators in educational institutions, that is his job, and I think that in addition to this assistance, we should have left powers in addition to the municipalities, only to see that this system is not suitable to reduce the differences arising from funding. The reason why KLIK alone or the state is not suitable to reduce differences is because only one, it is true that it provides a solution or a solution to education for a very important section of funding, but even though it is a state reserve in a village in Szabolcs County, or in a district in Buda, it does not make the schools the same, it does not make the same families from which children come to educational institutions. It is therefore important to say that the differences, which are extremely relevant both in vocational training and in vocational schools, are not expected to decrease from the fact that these institutions will be maintained by NGM. In addition, the bill states that three vocational training centres can be established per county, and ten in Budapest, and this will lead to further centralization in several counties. This could also have been seen from the operation of the KLIK so far as a lesson that centralisation is affecting the wrong direction. And it's being corrected there by strengthening the county district level and giving the institutions a treasury card. It is also important to see the same in vocational education and training, where, in addition, schools have a much more diverse training profile compared to primary schools, so vocational schools and vocational schools should be treated even more differentiatedly, but unfortunately this structure will not be developed. I have already received information that these vocational training centres and their leading positions have, in some cases, been looked by former Fidesz politicians. We hope that this will not happen, and that decisions will be taken on a professional basis, but we have met old acquaintances in many areas, so we would not be surprised if there were experienced politicians here. The second chance is what we should also talk about most about in terms of vocational training. This is the form of training for vocational training, for secondary schools, where most are disadvantaged children, or for children who come from a family background where learning is not treated as an appropriate value. Our comments on the Bridge programme must obviously be made here in the first place, because when the Bridge programmes were introduced, then Secretary-General Rózsa Hoffmann said that this would be the road to vocational training, and that this will reduce, reduce, and stop the drop-off in terms of vocational training. In connection with the operation of the Bridge programmes, I have made a request for data of general interest to the head of the CLIK, his Chairman, Mr Hanesz, and he has informed me of extremely devastating data. In the Bridge programme itself, there is a higher rate of drop-out than in vocational training itself, so the path to vocational training seems to be harder for students, and the solution will not be that now there will be a cross-half-year training - this may reduce it to some degree - or that at 23 years of age, children will be able to sit back on the school bench, or, in the Bridge programme, they are no longer children, but that, in the case of a 16-year-old education obligation, there will be 23-year-olds who will remember that they still want to study, this is a less realistic example. Plus, it's not even the mass. So we should focus on children who are mass behind in school, mass drop out of the Bridge program, vocational training. They are not the ones who, by the way, at the age of 23, realize that they want to complete the Bridge programme in a mid-life course, and they did not know only because they did not have the opportunity to do so in the mid-life period. So I think that this amending proposal, which completely rewrites the Bridge programme, continues to avoid the hot porridge, does not solve the substantial mass problems, and will continue to be as ineffective as its predecessors were. That is why we cannot support this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.40]]
u2015-05-26-282	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr István Ikotity, LMP.
u2015-05-26-283	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking separately, I am sorry, I am not clear, I am going to speak specifically about the changes to public education and now about the changes to vocational training. The number of VET modifiers has swelled enormously, a 64-point material has come together, a significant part of which seems to be a spelling and language-place correction, which certainly suggests that this text may not have been written in the Ministry, because we can imagine the government apparatus being able to write and express correctly - at least that is what we hope. We believe that this series of proposals was more collided outside the Ministry, which, by the way, was unlawfully brought before the Parliament, since although it is officially under the name of Minister Mihály Varga, it was not in social consultation, it was only possible for everyone to face it after the referral. The government even concealed the concept of vocational training on which the law was amended, and refused to comply with our data request. When I tried to ask for this concept of vocational training on several occasions, I was told that a four-page extract of this was sent on the one hand and that it would be known at the time. I think this is completely unacceptable, because the concept that this is based on, it is also a sealed material for Members of Parliament, a non-recognizable substance, which further reduces the value of this whole package of proposals that we are currently looking at. The government is fully at the mercy of, we believe, vocational training, not even to the economy, but to a narrow group within it. We have drawn attention on several occasions in recent years to the fact that not only vocational training, but also in other fields of education, public education and higher education, can be seen and clearly perceived by a clear shadow ministry in the background, and it is clear that the Trade and Industry Chamber has a huge role here, and functions as its leader as a shadow minister. To get to the details - obviously I cannot respond to everything - if you look at the points in the summary amendments, there are, of course, a number of elements other than grammatical corrections, some of them. The amendment would give the Government, the competent minister, additional powers to regulate the rules governing the supplement for teachers in vocational training or the definition of a system of practical instructors' advancement. They do not want to define these benefits by law, as the regulation can be amended at any time or withdrawn by a pen. This is how they make the appreciation of trainers in vocational training even more uncertain, and they do not even set a legal framework for this. But the Fidesz-KDNP is leading the way to circumvent the rules, to find the loopholes. The amending proposal also demonstrates that non-State vocational training institutions can participate in adult education to a degree different from that of general rules when asked by the State. As with all education changes, the operation of the Bridge programmes is still a bit slapped. That the Bridge I and the Bridge II. Instead of a programme, public education and training bridge programmes will be created, and nothing will change. Bridge programmes will continue to be fragmented, dead-end trainings of Hungarian education. Catching up, mentoring, special attention would be extremely necessary, but not in this way, not in this form. On the one hand, the summary amendment clarifies the freeness of this training bridge programme, making so confusing rules that it is no longer clear what is free and what is paying. On the other hand, it is recorded that Mihály Varga and Zoltán Balogh understand each other and agree with themselves with each other and ask for their own opinions before tampering with the operation of the Bridge programs and their curricula. Finally, it is also important to know who to educate students and young people in vocational training. While receiving dual training for unprepared, uneducated, uneducated, suddenly educated entrepreneurs, they are concerned within schools that there will be insufficient teachers. What can be done, there are not enough instructors, the government applies the well-established solution here: they loosen up regulations, push deadlines and the like. The LMP considers this vocational training law to be completely flawed and detrimental to the Hungarian society. We say that education, within this [[The president's ringing the bell.]] vocational training should serve the needs of society, not the specific needs of the labour market. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-26-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Winning Congressman Vinnai, Fidesz.
u2015-05-26-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to waste a few more sentences on two topics, or I hope, in quotes, that we are not wasting, but that we are all built on them. One is the dropout that my colleague Dóra Dúró said. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the Green Paper, if I remember correctly, during Hiller's ministry, during his education ministership, the number of people who fell out of vocational training or the dropout was almost a third, which is 50 percent for those with multiple disadvantages. So there's no question that there's something to be done about this dropout. I was talking about, of course, improving that the VET Bridge programme, and there is also a public education bridge programme, but now let's talk about vocational training, gives us the opportunity to do so in three areas. One is to catch up with the primary school break-down circle to get a primary school education, who has graduated seven elementary schools or six classes. The second is the return of early school leavers to education. Here, of course, it is possible to connect to day-care education, secondary education or profession for 25 years and volunteering, or if the candidate does not recognize it, then his parents realize that there is a need for a degree in this world. The third is to improve early exit rates for those with multiple disadvantages. Let me give you a figure: the dropout in the European Union was 13.5 percent in 2011, with significant territorial differences in Hungary, on average 11.2 percent. I am talking about breakage or dropout in the 18-24 age group, and the EU target is to be below 10% by 2020. I think this is a good way to go if we in this VET Bridge programme or in other forms reduce dropout. And the other is control. Professional high schools, vocational schools, vocational schools, this new and about 44 such vocational training centers will be on average with 4-6 members, a vocational secondary school or a vocational school, or a vocational high school. The point of this would be - Dóra Dúró said that KLIK had such problems - to be decentralised, since it is organised on a territorial basis, people are there and are so close, up to three per county, ten per county, that we may miss this centralised management system, not to be directed to one centre, but to 44 such vocational training centres, where maintenance rights and professional management are exercised. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-05-26-287	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would reply to the honourable Member first on the Bridge programme. Indeed, in terms of total vocational training, the dropout is about one third, 33 percent. In the Bridge program, the dropout rate is higher, 40%. That is why I said that the Bridge Programme is not even as effective as it is, in any case, as effective as vocational training as a whole in this respect. This data shows very well that the Bridge program is not good, it is not effective. In addition, the 40 percent who are already out of the Bridge program will be very difficult for them to do after that. Statistics from 18 to 24 years of age are extremely misleading. They usually finish vocational training by then, so those who drop out of vocational training are not included in this statistics, which you have said or are part of, but are already in the senior year. [[20.50]] The students in the Bridge programme accumulated 120,000 unauthorized absences in one academic year, so the number of uncertified hours in this respect is amazing. In terms of governance, it is certain that there will be centralization by establishing these vocational training centres, because if we use the operation of the Tiszkek - which is the current system - then there will be five counties where there are more than three Tiszkk now, and centralization will mean that there will be a maximum of three, and there will be counties where the current structure will remain, so that this number will not decrease or increase compared to the establishment of vocational training centres. So we can't talk about decentralisation there either. Is it that a management system is organised on a territorial basis? Well, KLIK also has territorial levels, district level, county level and central level, but it has not managed to operate the system effectively, so this alone is not a guarantee of anything. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-288	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák for two minutes.
u2015-05-26-289	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I, too, would like to say very briefly about the two moments I have just mentioned. Déjà vu experience that has now taken over. We had a chance to talk about it in the general debate, but I'm not going to give up hope to convince Dora. Dear Congresswoman, On the one hand, the 40 percent dropout in the Bridge programme, based on the data you referred to, is now accepted, compared to the size of the other areas of vocational training, it is obvious that the participation of a student army in the current version of this programme is a completely different one. If there's 40 percent dropout here, then I'm saying we saved 60 percent of students, we've helped you back. This is a difference in attitude, and you have just said that we should focus on this issue from the point of view of students and children. Let's do it in this case. The new elements that my fellow Member, Vinnai, has also set out, which are included in the amendment proposals in connection with the Bridge Programme, are all opening up new opportunities. So I don't see the cat, especially not the hot porridge and the circumnavigation, but the attempt to make the Bridge programme even more effective for these young people. And let us have a thought about the Tisks and the centers to be formed, which we have already had, at least I thought that we could do it in the general debate. In terms of scale, the number of planned centres does not differ from what is currently the case in the country. So we're talking about the same lot in scale. If you're gonna beat this up, you're gonna whip the old one, which leads back to a long time, but that should be addressed to the other faction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-26-290	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else has the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The rapporteur indicated that he wished to respond to what was said in the debate in a ten-minute time frame.
u2015-05-26-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that there has been a debate between the ruling parties and the opposition, which has made my work easier, because I obviously do not have to respond to them, but I can turn to the real amendments and I would like to evaluate them. Firstly, I think it is to be welcomed that the proposals on the part of the committees to close the detailed debate have confirmed the provisions of the legislative amendment, namely the need for changes. The amendments tabled by my fellow Members, taking into account their justification, were, of course, supported by the Government in the committees and will also support it when voting. Allow me, in summary, to address some of the issues raised in the professional debate. With regard to the amendment of the VET Act, I am pleased to see the opinion of my fellow Members that the state should support the acquisition of more than one qualification. Although critical overtones have also appeared, my fellow Members have recognised the importance of creating vocational training centres as a new level of quality in the vocational training system; even the previous debate was a bit about this. I believe it is important that the debate has led to progress in terms of VET Bridge programmes, and that a future incentive system will also support the return of young people who are falling back into the VET system or the world of work. I appreciate that there was no difference of opinion between us in laying the foundations of the vocational education and training career model taking into account the specific features of vocational education and training, and in restoring the position of practical educator in vocational training schools. The comments made in the debate also indicated that there was essentially agreement in the direction of development, increasing the efficiency of the institutional system of vocational training, broadening the possibilities for participation in vocational training, even if the ways of implementation and possible ways of implementation are sometimes seen differently by Members. Overall, with regard to the VET contribution system, the objectives and the need for the amendment were not disputed among my fellow Members. We also agreed that improving the funding conditions for practical training and further broadening the incentive system is essential to increase the number of enterprises and learners participating in dual vocational training, to strengthen the dual training system in secondary and tertiary education. The main elements of the amendment to the VET Contribution Act were also in the service of achieving this objective, so we have basically found agreement on your part with regard to the amendments. There were no issues in the debate regarding the amendment of the Adult Education Act that would have challenged the justification for the proposed changes and the need for amendments. The opposition comments made in the debate on OKJ training in adult education have also shown that the proposed tightening up in this area, which we have done to improve the quality of OKJ training, is very necessary. A substantive amendment was also made to the part of the bill concerning the Adult Education Act, which was supported by the government. Dear Parliament, On this basis, in conclusion, I believe that the direction of the amendment of certain elements of the vocational training and adult education system, as set out in the bill, as set out in the individual amendments, has been adopted by all of you, and I therefore ask you to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-26-292	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLVI amending certain tax laws and related other laws follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission was made in T/4452. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4452/8. and T/4452/9. was given to them. Report by the Committee on Enterprise Development as a committee on the subject of the debate on the detailed debate T/4452/7. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4452/11. and the summary report is T/4452/12. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. [[21.00]]
u2015-05-26-293	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on the 21st of May, T/4452 discussed it. CLVI 2011 on the amendment of individual tax laws and related other laws. In this context, it adopted a bill amending the law by 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions, a proposal for amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, which will correct the amendment adopted by the Economic Committee. As stated at the committee meeting, one of the most important features of the job protection action is that it is targeted and targeted at the groups of workers that are most vulnerable with reduced contributions. Clarification of the proposed discount rule is that the bill 1. The rule set out in Article 5 of the Act covers too much staff, since the occupational activity FEOR-08 7333 includes not only agricultural workers but also industrial machinery repairers and maintenance workers. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] However, it is proposed that only agricultural mechanics and maintainers should benefit. The reduction in the adopted amending proposal is precisely intended to benefit workers in agricultural employment from this contribution reduction. I'd like your support, thank you for listening.
u2015-05-26-294	Welcome back, we'll continue our work. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[There's no candidate.]] No. In this case, it will be possible to state the closing word at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. The first of these is Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz.
u2015-05-26-295	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a proposal before us that is trying to answer one of the problems of everyday life, and hopefully it will do so with the greatest possible result. There are many cases when we talk to agricultural entrepreneurs and employers that problems arise mainly in seasonal work with the acquisition of labour and recruitment of workers. There may be many reasons for this, but one of them is that there may be little money, little salary they can afford. As a solution, therefore, a number of proposals can and will be proposed. One might be to give them a higher income, which, of course, involves a higher contribution. The other solution is what we now have here, as a suggestion, to get a discount on part of the wage contributions. Thus, it can be put in the pocket as an option, i.e. the actual income, the actual salary may be more for workers. This second proposal was included in this bill. In fact, we can say that the bill before us is an extension of the action plan for the protection of jobs introduced in 2013 to cover workers aged between 25 and 55 years, namely agricultural workers. The benefit is obtained from the 27 per cent social contribution tax payable by employers and from the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution. The benefits were still available for farm workers if they were under 25 or over 55 years of age. However, on the basis of the positive feedback provided by economic operators, it is justified that the government intends to extend the benefit to those aged between 25 and 55 years. In order to ensure that the measure is targeted, the legislative committee's summarised amendment proposes a clarification that only agricultural mechanics and maintainers may benefit, but not industrial machine repairers and maintenance workers. If the House adopts the Government's motion, the law may enter into force as early as 1 July this year, i.e. at the time of the summer agricultural work, the tax relief will be applicable. Therefore, I would also like to ask the House to support this bill, so that the urgently needed labour force is available at the front and in the season of agricultural work. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have the next announced speaker, Mr Nándor Gúr, who will take the floor, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the general debate on this draft law, it has already been pointed out by several of my fellow Members that it is not certain that the threshold that goes hand in hand with the reduction in contributions is well set. You may remember it, fellow Members, or if you have just turned the bill, you can see that this contribution is up to HUF 14.5 per cent. Today, the minimum wage in Hungary is 105 thousand forints in gross terms. We have now tabled amendments in this respect, so that we can have this contribution discount up to the minimum wage or, better or up to the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. up to HUF 122 thousand. 'Cause from a partial perspective, not from a partial perspective, but from a partial perspective, you get a contribution allowance. This means that it will actually affect a few thousand people. It is not a problem, it is also good to provide some kind of help to a few thousand people, or to help people here, not directly, but their employer, if this is achieved. But at least up to the minimum wage, in better case, I'll say it again, up to the guaranteed minimum wage, it would be appropriate to achieve this discount. But it seems that the government on this one, I apologize, has no flexibility in terms of small differences, which does not shake the budget. I don't want to start with the head count, but you can see very well that if you calculate a difference of HUF 5 thousand per person, then this is HUF 60,000 per year, if it affects a thousand people, it would amount to HUF 60 million, if it were ten thousand, it would amount to a contribution discount of HUF 600 million in total. I'm telling you the scale of what that means. I also had another fellow Member, Mr Sallai, who said, quite rightly, that it might not be up to the minimum wage, but rather that these preferences should be applied in the upper lane, because it might be possible to raise the wages a little bit higher. One word, like a hundred, with the idea that these benefits and contributions will be realised within agriculture on a partial basis, there is nothing wrong with itself. I have the biggest problem with what I just said, that I should have gone at least up to the guaranteed minimum wage in this thing; one. Secondly, that, in addition to all this, a bill should have been put before the walls of the House, which not only gives the employer a discount, but also puts the worker in a more favourable position. That is, if you would have a contribution allowance of up to a higher amount, for example up to the guaranteed minimum wage of HUF 122 thousand, and someone today, say, is earning HUF 116 thousand, then it is easier for your employer to complete your salary with the difference between 122 thousand and your current wage. Because you can practically partially compensate for the extra expenses that may appear in your pockets in connection with wage development. [[21.10]] So-so, the whole point of the story is this thing is on one leg. This benefit is granted only to the employer, but it does not provide the employee with any kind of benefit. This beneficiaryship is important because you would also have to face the fact that in the last five years a situation has been brought to life where the minimum wage's purchasing power value is worth 5 thousand forints less than in 2010. Well, they should have gone as far as today if you had taken up 68 750 forints minimum wage, which by 2010 was worth 55 thousand forints, so that they would give these people at least 60 200 forints' worth of money in 2010. So this one-legged proposal that you are making does not favour the employee, it only gives the employer a discount, so I think that although the idea is not wrong to grant partial benefits, it does not, however, favour the employee, so it should be considered whether it should be supported in itself. I'm not against the story, I'd like to signal it, but I just want to say once again that it would have been more fair to make this story two-legged. And then, when you are talking about an action plan to protect jobs and what else you are talking about in this debate, I would always like to remind you that five years ago, when we were before the elections, you were not talking about an action plan to protect jobs, you were talking about a million new jobs in the economy. Not on the public employment stage of hundreds of thousands, no! From one million new jobs in the economy, jobs producing tax forints; from which current wages are worth no less than they were previously worth. I would like to tell you today, in agriculture, where not black, where there are not grey forms, because there are many of them, everyone knows, checks confirm, these people are the losers of what has happened in the last five years. Therefore, you should have made sure, first and foremost, that such a bill was produced so that not only the employer but also the employee would be a beneficiary. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. Members seeking a normal word are next. Congressman László Salacz is the first of them, Fidesz. [[Dr. László Salacz: I did not ask for the floor.]] It's not my fault, but it showed up here on your screen. [[Péter Cseresnyés and András Tállai intervene. András Tállai: Yes, you can, the president can.]] I see. Then we discussed this here with the representatives of the government. Let's agree that Congressman Sallai R. Benedek pushed a button, and now he's talking.
u2015-05-26-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I fully agreed with the government's aim of providing some assistance to the people employed in agriculture, and the possibility of a contribution allowance of HUF 14.5 per cent, obviously, is helpful. Therefore, at first sight - I said this in the general debate - it would be eligible. But, as I said in the general debate, it was necessary to make some amendments in order not to put anyone at a disadvantage because of this proposal. And unfortunately, my amendments, as usual, have bled to death, and, as a result, I am very uncomfortable with the government, because I am clueless about what to do with it. In the event that this benefit is paid to employees, it will again not be the kind of small and medium-sized family owners who, let us say, are now able to carry out their farm as an original farmer or as a family farmer or as an individual entrepreneur. Here, the beneficiary group is where it is employed, so it is employed. And there it will have a substantial impact up to HUF 100,000 and 14.5 percent where there are more employees, so employment is higher. And again, it's not the kind of layer that would represent small and family farms. If you could answer in this debate, Mr Secretary of State, why individual entrepreneurs could not be included in the contribution allowance, I would like to thank you for this, for example, because this was a completely policy-free, well-meaning proposal. In the same way, it is suggested that this discount can once again benefit the large estate structure, because where more people are employed with a salary of HUF 100 thousand, this will be a substantial help, and not where it is most needed. This is a problem because it will help the greats once again in terms of competitiveness, because they are practically getting cheaper access to this workforce, as if it were done by an agricultural self-employed person with his son, trying to make a living like those who, let's say, employ hundreds of people in connection with any of these billionaires, for example, for 100 thousand forints. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has already said my other concern that it is almost as if a ceiling were created, since in the case of a contribution allowance and a wage reduction, if a ceiling of HUF 100 thousand is set, I believe that it is an incentive for employers to be able to work around to the extent of this contribution allowance and to set the wage, which we believe is not favourable again. If Mr Secretary of State's reaction were still in the final debate, I would welcome the response that the amendments which would have helped to extend this, so that as many small and medium-sized farmers as possible could benefit from this discount, why they were not supported from the government side, I would thank you for that. Because at the moment, it is easy to agree with the purpose itself, it is good that this target group is included, but it is the same as the pig's VAT, that it selects a circle and wants to give only one for its own sake, while putting others at a disadvantage. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-300	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. Yes, Congressman Nándor Gúr. You're supposed to decide that in two minutes... you can't say the same thing, but you can't say the same word as a suitor. You have the floor, please.
u2015-05-26-301	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I pushed by accident, and after I realized it, that's why I pressed both. I would like to say three simple points. One is that in Hungary there are very high withdrawals mainly in relation to low incomes. You know that. The rate of withdrawal is 49-49,5 percent. I say this because, for this reason, any process that is expressed or conceived as a contribution allowance is not intended to be taken into account for the first time. It's not despicable, it's definitely considered. In contrast to this 49,5 percent, for example, the rate of withdrawal is 42 percent for the Czechs, but 36 percent for the Poles. So all discounts are good for the employer. But I would like to emphasise once again that there is a contribution allowance and a wage increase. These two things should be moving together. The employer's benefit should also appear, but on the other hand, the employee's benefit and benefit should also be shown. Especially when 70 percent of the people working in Hungary are looking below the median average, and those working in agriculture are not even considered to be members of the circle who, say, would appear in a way that is above the median average. In other words, when you are officially employed in agriculture, you are not living your life under high income conditions, but unfortunately, it is very typical that you are employed in black or grey. And if a higher contribution allowance had been shown, this would have stimulated a little bit in order to move towards graying or whitening. That is why, in my view, it would have been appropriate, which is why we proposed to increase the contribution allowance up to the minimum wage or the guaranteed wage. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-302	Thank you very much. I'll ask you again if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, On this basis, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. Secretary of State says yes. András Tállai has the floor. Here. [[21.20]]
u2015-05-26-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If the honourable Parliament would allow me, I would not respond to the arguments already made and repeated in the general debate. On the one hand, Members were given a reaction in that debate, and on the other hand, this is not our task on the current agenda. A brief presentation is also unusual because it gives a discount to a significant group of workers, 30-35 thousand people, yet what kind of debate it triggers. As regards the concrete amendments, Sallai R. Benedek asked - I don't know if he's here. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Yes, I'm here.]] Yeah, he's here - I think it's a completely separate category to be an entrepreneur or an employee. It's quite different in the first place. Other laws apply to him. Entrepreneurs don't have working hours, employees have working hours. It is obvious that the taxation, thinking, responsibility, or responsibility of an individual entrepreneur is quite different from that of an employee. It is clear that he can obtain various grants, land-based support, asset support, so his business is taxed or supported, and his business is taxed. This has always been an eternal debate, and I recall in Parliament that when there is a discount, the self-employed are also included among the employees. Usually, this was always initiated by the opposition. I think it is right that these should remain two distinct categories, and that this form of support should be granted to the employed, and perhaps also to the self-employed. Not to mention that this has a budgetary impact, but I believe that this is not the more serious counter-argument against this, on the other hand, but that the self-employed must also bear the benefits and forms of taxation of the entrepreneurial category. For this reason, the other amending proposals, and in particular the budgetary aspects, have dominated, since a limit has to be drawn when granting a discount, which is why it has been rejected, since the government intends to maintain the long-term promotions of the action plan for the protection of jobs, and a predictable planning is required. On other issues, my fellow Members expressed their views on the amendment proposal, which was supported with the aim of specifically supporting the agricultural sector, and not on industrial machinery repairers and maintenance workers. I, too, ask that the fellow Members adopt the bill tomorrow, because from 1 July onwards, after a number of employees, the employer will be able to avail himself of the benefit, and, as I said, it does not involve a narrow circle, since about 30-35 thousand people are expected to benefit from it. Thank you very much for what has been said in this debate. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-26-304	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I am ordering a technical break pending the arrival of the government rapporteur on the next agenda. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr. Robert Répássy, Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has long been expected like you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] Dear Parliament, It follows that CLXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/4449. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4449/3. and T/4449/4. was given to them. T/4449/6. and the summary report is T/4449/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2015-05-26-305	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/4449 on 21 May. CLXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. a bill amending the law, and the committee to that effect is the House Rule 46. It adopted an amendment and a summary report with 33 yes and 1 abstentions, i.e. without voting against. [[21.30]] As is well known, with the development of the districts, the transformation of the administrative, the territorial bodies of the public administration and the settlement of the district boundaries have been carried out, but this has not been done in the case of district courts or district prosecutors, despite changing the names. Therefore, as a general justification of the bill, it was necessary to make up for this by amending the law. Adapting to jurisdiction does, of course, no longer mean that each district court is limited to the territory of a district. There are district courts that, where appropriate, will have jurisdiction in the area of several walks, but will be adapted to the area and boundaries of these walks. Further, district attorneys' offices and police offices automatically adapt to the area of jurisdiction of district courts, and we will find in detail the provisions necessary for this purpose and for the maintenance of its operation. Therefore, the possible relocation of cases cannot take place and the cases will not be delayed because this new territorial position will be applied to cases that have taken place after the entry into force of the law. The summarised amendment therefore contains, on the one hand, parts of the text submitted by the Judicial Committee which are intended to change substance and, on the other hand, some codification clarifications of the Legislative Committee. An important change, as stated at the committee's meeting, is that, in relation to the original bill, the amendment includes, in the case of Érd, that, after Érd was the only county-righted city where there was no district court at the moment and corrects this, he wants to change this situation. This is a change that will certainly make life easier for citizens. Annex 1 of the Act sets out the new district court limits, and Annex 2 ensures that the following municipalities belong to the jurisdiction of the district court in Érd as of 1 January 2018: Diósd, Érd, Pusztazamor, Saltkút, Százhalombatta, Tárnok, Törökbálint. It should be noted that the settlements, the total population of these settlements, are more than 110 thousand, and all settlements belong to the district of Érd. With the proposed amendment to be adopted, we can thus draw even closer to the objective set out in the bill, so that the district courts are adapted not only to their name but also to their actual competence. I call for the support of this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-306	Thank you too, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. The first among them is Congressman Csaba Gyure, representative of Jobbik. You have the floor, please.
u2015-05-26-307	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We also consider it very important that the place of administration during judicial proceedings, as in all other administrative procedures and other official procedures, is as close as possible to the residence of citizens. This is a very important aspect. In the present case, this law does not regard this as a starting point primarily, but considers it a starting point to be broadly identical, i.e. the district boundaries in the public administration are completely identical to the jurisdiction of the courts, and it is not the same as the fact that, of course, the area of jurisdiction of district courts is much larger, i.e. it can cover up to one and a half or two jurisdictions, which are district jurisdictions. We would therefore disagree with the law itself, since it is based on the district authority, but we are primarily interested in what I said in my very first sentence, so that the place of administration should be as close as possible and as accessible as possible. In this connection, the Jobbik for Hungary Movement, we are very curious about how such legislation, a new law, is struck in the microenvironment, and therefore I, since I live in Szabolcs-Szatmár county, in Szabolcs-Szatmár county, invited the affected settlements, mayors and notaries about this, what it means to them, what it brings to the village, to the people, is usually a positive and negative change. In all cases, the change of jurisdiction has always been seen as a positive change. In general, local mayors and notaries everywhere justified that transport is much better for the settlement to which they will be transferred or their settlement will be transferred. On this basis, we can clearly state that, if this is good for the population, Jobbik supports this, since there is no argument against it. In the course of the debate, it was presented in the Legislative Committee that there was no real debate, in fact everyone supported and supported the amendments, because progress had already been made in so far as the amendment of the Legislative Committee had already included everything that the general debate here had revealed that there was no precise date for the single county-righted city, Érd, which had no district court and nearly 100,000 persons in such a jurisdiction, which could be embraced by the Ordian district court, if there were any; there was no concrete proposal in the law for this to be set up by about when. This was later determined on the basis of a separate motion by its representatives, and was supported by the government, as stated at the Legislative Committee meeting. Thus, there was also a complete consensus that the year 2018 was the year for which the establishment of the district court in Érd was defined. So it was definitely a positive move here. Otherwise, the legislative proposal is basically technical, so there is practically no political aspect, and since the interests of the population are fundamentally forward-looking and coincide with the legislative bill here, Jobbik Hungary's Movement supports this at committee meetings and then in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is the next speaker, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We support the establishment of the district office in Érd, and we hope that the government will put it next to the proper infrastructure. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-310	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone wishes to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. Then it's up to the secretary of state to take the floor. Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary is next. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for your support, and I would add to the statement by Congresswoman Bangóné: the Government hopes that Parliament will provide budgetary resources to the court, because it is not the government that must provide budgetary coverage for the construction of the new court, but the Parliament. Of course, this will be proposed by the government, in consultation with the National Court of Justice. Mr President, thank you for your comments and for your patience. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-312	Dear Parliament, Thanking Mr. Secretary of State for his statements, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The show's a bit of a routine, so until the government representative arrives at the next item, I'm going to order a technical break.(Sunning: 21.39 - 21.44 President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Attila Gelencsér and Loránt Hegedűs)
u2015-05-26-313	[[State Secretary Károly Czibere enters the room and takes a seat.]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 XXXI on Children's Protection and Child Welfare Administration. Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of the Act to extend the free nursery and preschool children's meals. The submission was made in T/4448. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Welfare Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T-4448/6. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I now ask the rapporteur, whom I warmly welcome, whether he wishes to speak. [[Károly Czibere: In the end.]] Mr. Secretary of State says it'll be over in the end. Dear Parliament, The designated Welfare Committee did not set up a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, and first of all, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, please order.
u2015-05-26-314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I will repeat again what I said this afternoon, that Eurostat published a new survey - I am sure you will know what I am talking about - that there are 273 regions in the European Union and that, as every year, poverty figures have been looked at, where the region is, and quite sad data have been provided about Hungary. Hungary consists of 7 regions, and unfortunately, four regions of Hungary are in the poorest 20 regions of the 273 regions. The 8th place is located in the North-Hungarian region, 11th place in the North-Alföldi and 12th place in the South-Transdanubian and South-Alföldi regions. I think that these are talkative figures, and we can finally say that, in the context of child poverty and poverty, the government has heard the opposition's voice, and we have already said this in the debate, and has taken some steps on this matter. We also said in the debate that we welcome the extension of preferential, so to speak, free food for daycare and preschool children from September, but more needs to be done here, especially in the knowledge of these data. I also said in the debate that 14 percent of children who are in kindergarten are in kindergarten in Hungary today, and 2 percent are in family daycare, so 16 percent of children are in institutions. And what about the 84 percent, and especially the 84 percent, kids who are underprivileged? They should also find a way to get the right food and nutrients. We know very well that the first three years are the most important thing for children. Here almost everything is decided for the future life of children. If they don't get the right education, the right nutrition, it's gonna come down to the kids at the age of 3, so it's very important that something happens to these kids, and not just when they get into the institutional network. We also welcome you to kindergarten care, and, of course, by making it mandatory to go to kindergarten from the age of 3. We also mentioned in the debate that it is not only important for children to have a free meal, but also to draw the government's attention to whether there will be a suitable place for children from September; we are talking to all children, and especially to large cities, not rural settlements, whether this problem will be solved, and whether we will not be faced in August with some kind of chaos in the children's kindergarten in September. This is very important. The other very important issue, which has been raised several times, I know it is a very important step that at least the government has already heard that something has to be done about this, about child hunger and child poverty. The most important thing is to provide children with food at the facility. But we're still talking about kids after we're six, and let's just say we're still talking about kids after we're 14. During the year around 520,000 children in Hungary receive some support for their meals. Here we talk about the 50 percent after the three children, which is basically due to the children, and we talk about the need fund. That's 520,000 kids. We have tabled several amendments that it is very important that, after 14 years of age, when they are out of primary education, because then problems occur very, very seriously, especially in vocational schools, secondary schools, but also in high schools, so to speak. We see from the data requested that as soon as they leave primary school, fewer and fewer children receive meals, use meals in public institutions, and fewer and fewer children receive some kind of discount. [[21.50]] The other problem, however, is that even in the upper class, it can be observed that when they are in class 5, there is a very large decline in the feeding system, there is already a lot less use by children or parents there - it could be said that only the parent decides in most cases whether the child eats or does not eat within the institutional system. More attention should be paid to these children, and if 520,000 children receive support in the course of the year, we have repeatedly suggested that it be the same as in older care, so that those in need of elderly care receive support 365 days a year, and if the state provides a warm meal for the elderly, it is at least as important for our children. I did a quick calculation, and therefore it will not be entirely accurate that for 520,000 children, if it is around 440 forints - because it is around four hundred and a few forints that provide state support for their meals - if you would provide this for 365 days during the year, and we would talk about summer holidays, winter breaks, autumn breaks, then you could solve this for the government from eighty-a few billion forints, as I said in the debate. On behalf of the Secretary of State and the Government, the speaker also referred to the fact that last year there was about HUF 52 billion earmarked to carry out these tasks, but I also said that they did not say that 20 billion had been transferred to improve the operation of the KLIK in September - citing that it had been improved - and that at the end of the year there was still more than HUF 2 billion left, which was distributed among the municipalities, especially among government governments. Basically, this amount was much less than we can talk about, it barely exceeded 30 billion forints. We see the intention that there is a will on the part of the government to take a small step, but that would require much more, precisely recalling the data published by Eurostat. I think it would be very important that if we knew, during the year, that we were talking about 520,000 children, then we have the data, we see the data that you sent to us, to the opposition, we just need government will. I think we could forget the price of several stadiums in the next year's budget, and then we would have solved the problem, adding a few ten billion forints more from the budget to this problem, and then we really solved the meal for the needy children, 520,000 children during the year. A little bit about the social meal in the summer; I still have some time left, since Mr. Secretary of State is here. Mr. Secretary of State has said several times that they are considering completing this tendering system. I thought you were serious about this, and it might be resolved this year as well. Well, it didn't work out because the municipalities had to apply just the same way, and if I saw it correctly, compared to recent years, there was a very short time for the municipalities to submit applications, and they had a week electronically, and two weeks on paper. I do not consider this to be such a great success that every second municipality has applied for, there have been 2,200 municipalities applying for this summer social meal, I think we should have relaxed on the terms. I know, Mr Secretary of State, that it is no longer mandatory, but it is recommended to tighten up, and I also welcome the fact that at least you have heard that there is a need to facilitate the tendering system. I think that we should consider the budget, because in next year's budget, however, we do not see that funds are planned for summer social catering. I may have missed it, but I didn't see it in the budget. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-315	Congressman Sebestyén is coming, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-26-316	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. What I would like to say about the bill itself, as I said in the general debate, is that we can fully support this type of amendment and this type of effort, now partly because we also consider it a matter of our hearts to eliminate child deprivation as much as possible. Given that children are those who, if they are in a difficult situation, it is clear that they are outside their own faults and that if we want to make some kind of change, we need to support them to leave their present situation - leaving the unfortunately many times throughout generations of family tradition - to quit and start living a different type of life of different quality. The other part of the effort, which should be appreciated, is that it is a targeted support, a concrete support that cannot be played out, which is targeted and clearly addressed to and to whom either the government or the legislature intended it. So these are the benefits, these are the forms of support that we think we should switch over to almost every benefit, and on the one hand, it would be more controllable to know where public money is being paid, what funds are being used for, and on the other hand, from a professional point of view, we can say that such grants can be targeted, specifically, to solve a particular problem, and we can use them to initiate processes, including in this particular situation, in the lives of children in need and in need. So that's how we agree. On the subject of the amendments: the amendments tabled are partly acceptable, and I would specifically like to talk about an amendment, which is about allowing children to use this meal not only on weekdays but also on weekends. In the Commission's debate, the government's answer is that this could simply not be technically solved, weekend cooking cannot be solved, kitchen staff cannot be worked out on the weekends. I believe that this was a simple and overwhelming response, or rather a problem-solving response, and I would say that there is no end to wanting to, because I do not think that it is possible, even in accordance with the provisions of the SAO, to find a solution that will be possible for children to eat and feed on weekends. I think it was just a lack of intent, and that was a nice explanation for why they didn't want to do it. If you look at the total, I think that this would be such a small extra cost, especially if you consider the target group of this support, which would be worth running this extra circle, how it could be technically and in compliance with the legislation. I am asking the Government, although it is not our amendment, to think about this and perhaps to think about how this could be bridged from a technical or financial point of view, and how it could be resolved that the children who are actually deprived will receive food and food that are essential for their development during the weekend. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-317	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sándor Kovács comes as a standard word applicant. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't want to tell you, but I have to. If we have already fought our battle in committee, let me say a few words about the government's complex family support and support for children's family either in the form of a tax reduction or in the camping of the Elizabeth program, if we are talking about a summer meal. So I think that we should not only take out an initiative that is positive, and, as Parliamentary Secretary Tállai has already described in some of today's expeditions, these changes are positive, yet they go to an unpleasant debate or a negative debate, of course, it is the opposition's job to criticize it, but I think it is appropriate to defend it. If you look at the statistical data, Eurostat, I saw some figures myself, and I think if we did it with some Members or immediate family members, it would turn out that we are among the poor according to Eurostat statistics. Let me deny in Hungary the opposite of the opinion polls carried out by the HCSO and carried out by the Tarki, although the level of poverty has decreased slightly, and I think that we should also take them into account in such a debate. And I think that the intention of turning the summer meal into normative type of support rather than by applying for it is, in addition to the current HUF 3 billion money, an objective which, in any way, is on the agenda, that free food for children going to kindergartens and families where they live with disabilities, I think that it must be positive in any way. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. [[22.00]]
u2015-05-26-319	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is now closed. The Secretary of State, who indicated earlier, will now give his opinion. State Secretary Czibere, please.
u2015-05-26-320	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I'm sorry I'm late. I would like to thank everyone immediately for giving support to the government's proposal in this debate and in the previous debate. We think that it is indeed a social public agreement and a kind of national minimum that the objective of not having a child on a single day of the year is to have a child even because the family's income or wealth does not allow it, without a warm meal, without an opportunity to eat. In recent years, the government has taken significant steps in this matter, so let's think that spending in this area has increased more than double compared to 2010, from HUF 29 billion to HUF 58 billion, and even above, if we take into account the spending on children's meals in the summer. So the government's determination and commitment in this area is clear. We believe that this proposal is a milestone in this construction, since it will be possible to increase the number of children who will eat free in kindergarten and nursery almost three and a half times as compared to the previous one. This bill will make this possible. The congresswoman raised the question of children under the age of three that, in the case of children under the age of three, where the institutional system, which is indeed the means of delivery, is a carrier service through which all benefits, assistance and support should be brought to the needy family, were less built there. I think we need to mention a number of things here. On the one hand, the government is committed to continuously developing services for the care of children in the daytime, so there has been a significant increase in this area in recent years, and this will continue in the next period. Thus, one of the very important tools for daycare services, both for daycare and for family daycare, has been a significant increase in capacity for both of them in recent years. Another important point is that, of course, there are areas where there is no nursery and there is no canana, but it is important in this area to expand the houses that are sure to reach the families that are in need. There is a house in the country today, which is specifically designed to help children under the age of three, i.e. their parents. We consider it very important to think about the further development of this proven and excellent professional service in the next few years, by at least 50 percent we would like to increase the number of houses for the safe start. It is also important for children under the age of three to focus on providing children with the possibility of a safe start, of establishing certain funds, of providing children with all the services around them, with the services that guarantee their safe start, and with peer-reviewers, with a warning system that allows them to make sure that no child is taken up. Returning to the specific subject: so we think that this is what the proposal is aiming for. Of course, the government is committed to exploring the possibility of moving forward. Here a number of people raised the question: we are, of course, preparing the calculations and impact assessments for the secondary school, and, of course, as the congresswoman has indicated, and I have dealt with it several times, we would also like to move on with the holiday. I still consider it a significant achievement that 1491 municipalities have applied this year. The short deadline did not discourage the municipalities. It seems that after the government has repeatedly called attention to this possibility since the beginning of the year, and it has made them aware of their responsibility in the municipalities that the children in need in the settlement will be given this opportunity if they apply for it, thus drawing the attention of the municipalities, thinking about it responsibly and taking advantage of this opportunity. I think it is a great achievement that the number of children who actually benefit from catering in the summer will be significantly increased by at least 5-10 thousand compared to last year. This is indeed the way forward to transform from a tendering system into a normative structure. I very much hope that we will be able to present our ideas on these to the government shortly. Once again, I would like to thank you for your support, and I think that the government has been committed and passionate about the cause of children, the cause of families in need, and how to help families in need through the service structure and the institutional system as effectively and as targeted as possible. This present proposal, the current bill on this road, is a milestone, and I thank you in advance if your support will be provided tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-321	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1995 LXIV on the Children's and Youth Fund, the National Foundation for Children and Youth and on the organisation of certain state tasks related to youth. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/4450. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Welfare Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/4550/2. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State Czibere. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-322	Mr President, Dear House, The Law on the Fund for Children and Youth covers the Fund for Children and Youth, the objectives eligible under the Fund, and the minister's youth-related tasks. The Fund for Children and Youth shall support programmes, organisations and initiatives of children and young people and the development of young people by means of Chapter 4 of the relevant Act as an appropriation of the Ministry of Children and Youth Policy led by the Minister for Children and Youth. In the light of the objectives set out in Section 2 of this Annex. Such goals are the physical, spiritual, spiritual development of children, education of country knowledge, patriotism, education of democracy, education of citizens, strengthening the ability of young people to solve their own problems. The above is complemented by a support scheme, which also supports the objectives of the Fund for Children and Youth, followed by the Youth Programmes under the EFOP, which provides a total of HUF 1 billion in four years to the children's and youth groups for the organisation and implementation of community-building events and programmes. The current amendment of the law has two aims. One of the aims of the amendment is to repeal the elements of the outdated institutional system, following the organisational changes of the public administration, and to extend the forms of support from the revenue of the basic programme, which will be available again, in addition to the open and restricted tender procedure, in the form of individual aid. [[22.10]] With the transformation of the former youth background institution, Mobility and its regional background institutions, regional youth service offices, one of the most important representatives of the Hungarian youth profession is the New Nemzeték Központ Nonprofit Kft. However, the inclusion of the New Generation Centre by law is unnecessary, and this activity does not require legislation. Both the maintenance obligation related to the EU proposal and the inclusion of the New Generation Centre in the Statute Regulation provide sufficient guarantees for the functioning of the contact point network. The basic goal of the government's youth policy is to keep young people at home, to increase the commitment of the growing generation to public life and the future of Hungary, and to this end, the government wants to provide knowledge and living conditions that can serve as an appropriate background for a sure existence and then for the founding of a family. The New Generation Centre acts as a professional service background institution for the national youth policy, along with the offices of the twenty county contact points, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the programme "New Generation." Its activities include, on the one hand, the design, operational implementation of the objectives and programmes set out in the youth policy, participation in youth research and, on the other hand, the implementation of projects related to the youth target group financed by national and EU funds. Contact point offices help young people with online and offline services, personal and group advice, guidance, life management, further education, self-knowledge, legal and work advice is available in the offices... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre sneezes.]] Cheers. [[At least we'll wake up! Depreciation, interruptions.]] That's right.
u2015-05-26-323	Please, sneeze is not political. Let's stay on the subject, Mr. Secretary of State has also been disturbed. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks:]] For the record, it's a historical fact. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-26-324	Thank you very much, and I wish you good health. In addition to the above, the members of the Board of the Fund for Children and Youth will be enlarged. In carrying out its tasks, the Council of the Fund for Children and Youth shall propose the award of grants from the Fund for Children and Youth, contribute to the tasks of monitoring and evaluation, and propose to the Minister the priorities of support for the Fund for Children and Youth. The Council of the Basic Programme for Children and Youth was redesigned in 2012. In the past, the same number of government and non-governmental members participated in the Council's work, but after the transformation, only one member represents the government side. With this amendment, the Council is expanding with another civilian member, so the number of non-governmental members is increasing to eight, beyond one member representing the government side. The new member may be nominated by the Hungarian Student Sport Association. The representation of the Hungarian Student Sports Association in the Council is justified by the fact that according to youth research data, approximately 10 percent of young Hungarians are involved in community life and 80 percent of the young people involved are engaged in community activities as sports activities. In addition to the changes due to the transformation of the organisation system, the forms of support will be extended. In addition to the open and restricted tender, the individual form of support will be available again. Returning to the original legislative intention, we want to re-establish the possibility of individual aid in such a way that up to 5% of the aid envelopes can be allocated to individual aid needs. It should be noted that this individual subsidy rate was 10 per cent between 2007 and 2011. The possibility of individual support may be able to remedy the problems posed by exceptional living situations such as helping children and young people living in flood-stricken settlements, or the cooperation of youth between large-scale, Hungarian and cross-border regions. It should be pointed out that, when granting individual aid, it is possible to support a larger number of targeted areas. Dear Parliament, The Fund for Children and Youth was established two decades ago, during which a number of valuable programmes for children and young people were implemented from the Fund's budget. We hope that the basic programme will be a sure source of youth events, series of programmes, training of youth professionals for a long time. I would like to ask you to support, on the basis of the above, the bill governing the basic programme for the benefit and support of children and young people, which contains largely technical amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-325	Thank you very much. Members seeking a normal word will apply as no one has announced in advance in writing. Congresswoman Márta Demeter first, MSZP.
u2015-05-26-326	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal concerns the Child and Youth Fund, the National Foundation for Children and Youth, and the amendment of the 1995 law on the organisation of certain state tasks relating to youth. Currently, the annual envelope for the basic programme can be allocated through open and restricted calls for proposals. The amendment includes, among other things, the fact that Mr Secretary of State has repeatedly pointed out that aid may also be allocated through individual aid. Mr Secretary of State said that the aim of these programmes is to improve the ability of young people to solve problems, to promote civic education, to promote intellectual development, and to organise youth programmes. So we do not understand why it can happen that the budget will provide HUF 65 million for this fund this year, which in previous years meant a larger amount. Last year and the year before, we talked about 130 million forints. This appropriation is also intended to cover the implementation of children's and young people's camps and the support of programmes of youth organisations across borders. So, despite the small amount of budget appropriations, we believe that, by the way, the provision of individual support, highlighted by the Secretary of State, could once again be a hotbed for opaque government funding. So, as I mentioned, the government split the support of the Children's and Youth Fund this year, and instead of using its energy to provide more money to support children's and youth programmes, it only changes how to distribute, and we can see that there will be much less money available for these programmes than in previous years. I cannot go without saying, Mr Secretary, that it is important to keep young people at home. This problem has been going on for years. We know that we have seen a government policy so unpredictable, so profound and so inhumane in the last five years, which, unfortunately, encouraged many young people - some 600 thousand young people who have already left Hungary - to leave this country, to leave their families in order to live, to support their relatives living at home, and, unfortunately, to expect more and more people to leave. You must have seen the latest polls. Since 1993 the number of people leaving Hungary has not been as high as this year. Let me give you some more data. According to a recent survey, nearly 60 percent of respondents consider emigration from Hungary to be a very big problem, and nine out of ten Hungarians are affected in some form. That means that there are either friends or family who leave the country. We've told you many times that it's breaking up families. On average, six people migrate from one main environment, and about eight people leave the country for an additional period of time and go to work. We hope, sooner or later, that if there will be a government that will pursue a proper policy and take measures that really look at the interests of citizens and give young people perspectives, they will come home. [[22.20]] But the amendments made in this proposal make it clear that fewer resources are being devoted to the fund for children and youth, and make it clear that once again we can see an experiment where the minister will decide on his own authority how to give support to whom. We cannot support these amendments in any way. Pay attention to the problem the Secretary of State has mentioned. This should be addressed both with the programmes and with a predictable policy, support system, housing support, learning opportunities. Tens of thousands of people have fallen out of higher education in the last few years, and you know it very well, because this has come up in the context of several laws, and there are people in this room who are aware of it. They have very, very much to do on this matter. We will not be able to support the amendments mentioned in the law. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-05-26-327	Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-328	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The general debate on the amendment before us took place a few weeks ago. We should now talk about the amendments, which have not been tabled. The arguments and considerations on the basis of which it was decided to amend this were set out in detail in the last debate. Then we have said that the technical part, which will subsequently adapt the law to the abolition of mobility offices - which we do not think is good, I mean that they have ceased, but of course the subsequent amendment of the law must be made. However, the other part, which is included in this amendment, is that it is possible, in addition to certain restricted and open tenders, to make an individual decision by the Minister, although obviously made in advance on a proposal from a body, so that a certain amount of this fund can be decided by the Minister himself. In this debate, we were debated with our fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, who argued long-term that this was justified, and we were able to accept it, because why could not a minister have the opportunity to make a specific decision within a certain regulated framework. However, we raised to him - and there was also the 5 percent - that it was okay, whether this is a 5 per cent framework, but where is this 5 per cent framework in this amendment? I read through it several times, because it was a two-page material, and it was quite simple to do so, but this 5% is not included. I would like you to respond to this, because this is a rather important item for the assessment that a few million forints of the budget will be decided by the Minister, or even a move on the whole fund's support group, which has been reported to be going into something else. We would like to ask Mr Secretary of State - this has also been said in the last debate - to reassure us that this is not the case. I certainly look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply on this. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-329	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[On the sign of Charles Czibere:]] Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State, you have two minutes and 35 seconds.
u2015-05-26-330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments. There were basically three questions on which it was absolutely important to respond. One is the size of the source; she mentioned this. As I said at the opening, it is important to add that in all these four years, an additional HUF 1 billion will be available from EU funds for youth policy purposes, and these two funds should be considered together when we look at the amount of resources available for certain policies. The other is a question of a unique framework. I also mentioned in the introduction that this was 10 per cent before 2011, and now 5 per cent, so the discretionary powers, i.e. the width or scope of the ministerial individual grant powers, were basically half as large as they used to be. The third question was 5 percent. There will obviously be a regulation, and this 5-percent framework will be included in the regulation. I think that this can be a reassuring response to the Member's point. Overall, I thank you once again for your comments and I trust that this House will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-331	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/4476. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that the Parliament is discussing the proposal as a minority item. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Culture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4476/9. No 4476/10. was given to them. Report by the Enterprise Development Committee on the detailed debate T/4476/7. I, and the report of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, T/4476/8. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4476/12. T/4476/13. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2015-05-26-332	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/4476 was discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 21 May. It submitted a bill amending the Law on National Public Education 2011 and submitted 24 amendments and a summary report summarizing it with 5 sexes and 6 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendment adopted by the Committee on Culture, on the one hand, and the legislative committee's own motion on the other. The proposal of the Cultural Committee states that basic education can also be obtained in the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training, and also regulates in which case the non-educated student's legal status will cease in the same programme. I would like to remind you here that point 4 of the same document states that the Minister of Education will issue the framework plan for the public education bridge programme by requesting the opinion of the Minister of the Specialist in charge of the relevant training. This, in our view, will further enhance the professionalism of decisions and help to coordinate different educational and training interests. It is also included that in the future, the possible upper limit for participation in daytime education will generally be the 25th year of the bill. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). In point 6, the amendment will allow for a repeat of the completed 9th grade, which will allow for a career correction in secondary education. In point 11, it reduces the reporting obligations of municipalities in respect of the public education institutions they operate. The separate amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee, in addition to the clarification of language positioning and codification, creates consistency with the 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training. Act LXXVII on Adult Education T/4475 on the amendment of law and related law. The provisions of the bill No 1. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the two legislative proposals can only be interpreted together, with the adoption of both together, we can only achieve the objectives set out in public education and vocational training. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[22.30]]
u2015-05-26-333	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will be delivered by Congressman György Lukács, representative of Jobbik. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We already told you.]] You've already said that minority opinion. Then we won't ask you to say it again. This means that I will now ask the rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] He won't say anything. Then we will put the speakers that have been announced in order, and the first of them will be Mr Vinnai Győző, Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-26-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard from my colleague László Kucsák, the 2011 CXC. The amendment to the law, which regulates public education, is closely linked to the amendment of the VET Act. In our view, the two legislative proposals can only be interpreted together. I would like to address some of the background points that represent the amendment or outcome of the Public Education Act as a result of the amendment. One of these great achievements is that the possible upper limit for participation in daytime education has become 25 years of age; this has increased from 23. This has a positive impact on vocational training and, of course, is regulated in the National Public Education Bill. Pushing the age limit is an important development. This means that, in the case of vocational training, the studies required for the acquisition of the profession can be completed with greater certainty by young people in daytime education, and this also means that the acquisition of a post-training profession in the VET Bridge programme can take place in time. László Kucsák said about the second background of the legislative clarification that primary education can also be obtained in the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training. Some of them have been available so far, but the VET bill extends this to all those who carry out the VET Bridge programme. This, in our view, gives young people who have failed and failed a second chance, an attainable goal. This means that anyone who acquires primary education will be given the opportunity to acquire more marketable professions. And since the National Public Education Act contains comprehensive rules on public education, this is where it should be technically. Let me do one more thing that's so important. László Kucsák also talked about student status, but in a little bit more detail, the bill talks about the termination of student status by talking about the students of vocational schools. The amending proposal also settles the issue of student status for those who do not participate or study in a type of school, but in a programme. Bridge programs are like that. Such regulation of student status is all the more important because the number of non-educated students who are able to participate in the programme is broadening. Since September 2016, not only those who do not have a basic degree but also those who have left any secondary institution because they have not completed, and have left school after the compulsory school age, so after the compulsory schooling. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude, I would also like to talk about a proposal for an amendment, the 9th background point, because this proposal also gives us the opportunity to make a deliberate decision on the fate of high school students. After all, there are several high schools that are together with vocational training, organised together, and their future has not yet been decided. So I'm not talking about the runway system, I'm talking about high school training, which is important, for example, in a district or in a small area, to stay. Thus, the possibility of this decision remains, and while living together in high school and vocational training, professional management and management can be divided. To sum up: the amendment of the National Public Education Act implies the creation and retention of coherence in relation to the amendment of the VET Act, the strengthening of the acquisition of basic qualifications and the possibility of career adjustment in secondary education. We therefore support these summarised amendments. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-335	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Spoštovane Poslanke in Poslanci! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities feels obliged to discuss all issues and legislative proposals relating to ethnic education, so the government discussed T/4476. CXC 2011 on national public education. also on the bill for amending the law. Historical nationalities living in the territory of Hungary have reported, in recent decades, the unfortunate decline in the number of people belonging to nationalities. Instead of looking for the causes, our task is to stop the negative trend and to maintain them in Hungary in the centuries to come, preserving the language, culture and diversity of our nationalities, to which we also owe our right and emotional attachment and responsibility. Today, this is true of all 13 Hungarian nationalities, but especially of small ethnicities, which play an extremely important role in preserving and perpetuating public education institutions, the language, culture of nationalities. This is why all the issues in this area are also highlighted in the work of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Our future sits in the pads of our schools, and its quality is backed by today's teachers, schools and their work, regulators providing the legal and financial background of their operation, the state's actions. The government is T/4476. CXC 2011 on national public education. Most of the elements of the bill amending the Act concern the regulators of the transformation and development of the vocational training institution system, which I have already talked about during the discussions of the Commission reports of the VET Act and the summary amendment proposal. Of course, we would also like national education and education to take place in the institutions where the number of parents and students required to do so is set by law. The 2011 CXC on national public education. Article 4 Among the basic tasks listed in Section (1) of the Act, the following are named: education in the high school of nationality, education in the vocational secondary school of nationality, education in the vocational school of nationality. It is for our comfort that, with the planned transformation of the vocational training system, the T/4476 retains consistency. Bill No. 1 In addition to the basic tasks included in the basic documents of the public education institutions, the education of nationalities in vocational schools and vocational secondary education of nationalities, other schools of nationality, dormitory schools and colleges are also included as a basic task. However, the concept of ethnic pedagogical professional service has still not been included in the basic tasks, which was requested by our committee last autumn. We know that the pedagogical professional service is now under the control of the Education Office, and the issue of ethnic pedagogical professional service can certainly be resolved at some level. However, in addition to the provision of pedagogical professional services to ethnic education and education institutions, we still have the same arguments. The characteristic features of nationality education are handled with more certainty by national experts, their sensitivity to problems and their commitment to national education and education are clearly better. [[22.40]] The provision of this issue, the experts of the Education Office and their professional advisors with colleagues from nationalities, will be resolved at the moment. Our opinion in the further paragraphs of the bill, as I mentioned earlier, is the same as in the debate on the VET Act. Thank you for your attention. Hvala za posornost.
u2015-05-26-337	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-338	Thank you very much. Dear House, As many have mentioned, the current amendment to the Public Education Act is integral to the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Vocational Training submitted. I would like to present the position of the MSZP. First, two types of vocational training are renamed. The secondary vocational school is renamed a vocational high school on the grounds that it is intended to restore the attractiveness of this type of school. At the high school, students graduate after four years, in the fifth year they study the profession and take a tech exam. Since 1985, when technician training was re-introduced in Hungary, vocational secondary schools have been working in a 4+1 system. In this type of school, you can count on the basic professional skills acquired in the 9-12th grade for decades, and on this basis you could obtain a professional qualification in the 13th grade. I don't know what's new about that. They may not know it at the Ministry of National Economy, but the vocational high school is still the most popular type of school in our country, as I have seen statistics, nearly 40 percent of students apply to this type of school after primary school. Another twist is that the professional qualification is to be recognised as an OKJ professional qualification. In the 9-12th grade of the secondary vocational school or high school, students only learn about 1200 hours of basic knowledge of the profession group, for which professional qualifications cannot be issued. Professional education begins in the 13th grade; another problem is that the vocational secondary school and secondary school only prepare students for professional further education according to the law. Why can't a student or graduate from a vocational high school change his career if he wants to continue his studies in high school and later he doesn't want to go to the university? He's supposed to take a high school high school exam from the same subjects according to the same requirements as a high school student. But whether it will be so, there is no way to know that, or at least for us it has not been revealed, or whether they want to break the standard of formal qualifications, I stress, we do not yet know. The vocational school is converted into a vocational secondary school, indicating that students can take a final exam after another two years, based on three years of vocational education. However, this cheating of parents and students, in our opinion, makes the present one less industrialized internship training, in the vocational school all the public knowledge subjects are taught six hours a week, so there is no teaching class per week for each subject. How do you think, Madam Secretary, that, based on this, you can prepare for your graduation exam in two years? The designer of the draft law is either not familiar with the requirements of the single graduation exam, or would like to introduce specific examination requirements later in this type of school. The above renamings only disturb parents and children when choosing the types of schools in their career choices. The second is that NGM's background institution is expected to take over the maintenance of vocational schools. The question is not whether about 500 vocational schools will be transferred to another centre from the so far inoperative institution supporter KLIK, the question is whether schools will get their professional, pedagogical and economic autonomy back. However, we see that there is no chance of this, as they want to create a 30-40 school centre between the maintenance and schools, so that the ten thousand mammoth institutions and the members' institutions below them will be established, which will have no autonomy whatsoever. None of the organisations discuss how, how and how vocational schools use and use the background institutions and services of public education, such as OFI, KELLO, district boards. The third thing is that they want to expand the dual training system with the involvement of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and companies. This hasn't worked in the last four years, because it's not a matter of wishes. According to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, last year, last year, in the school year 13-14, only 2 percent of students were involved. Enlargement attempts have failed because companies do not have the personal or material conditions to organise practical occupations. The amendments to the VET contribution will not excite the entrepreneurial class that did not want to be involved in the training. Experience has shown that only businesses with a minimum of 30-50 are willing to undertake training for 3, 4 or 5 students. Moreover, the amendments to the VET contribution merely restore a part of the system which, before 2010, sought to encourage economic operators to participate more in training and training of their own employees. Fourth: According to the law, teachers, so-called teachers, can teach theoretical and practical subjects in vocational schools without a pedagogical degree. This is the face of the teaching profession, in our opinion, and not least the fact that students are not young adults, they are underage, that is, children. Without pedagogical knowledge, how can the education and education of young people aged 14 and 18 be envisaged? The fifth thing I would like to say is that there is a further tightening of conditions for foundation and private vocational training schools, and thus, basically, vocational training, just the poorest, the most deprived, especially in the physical and mental sense, can be discontinued. The same applies to the regulation of evening and correspondence courses. The MSZP fraction does not support these amendments, because it does not have a single paragraph that serves the interests of future generations, and even some paragraphs are particularly detrimental to uniform structure of public education, output regulation and further education. Thank you so much for listening. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2015-05-26-339	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, LMP!
u2015-05-26-340	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The amendment of the Public Education Act through the amendment of the VET Act constitutes a close unity, I said that I would like to discuss it separately. The summarised amendment proposal contains far fewer spelling errors than in vocational training, with much fewer corrections. We therefore suggest that this amendment was not written in the Chamber of Industry but could indeed be prepared in the EMMI. There was no need to help László Parragh and the large entrepreneurs around him, since most of the changes were included in the amendment of the VET Act. One of the most spectacular parts of the public education changes is the renaming of the school types, the current vocational school into a vocational high school, the vocational high school into a vocational high school; the high school remains a high school. I'm genuinely surprised that you love such lice terms so much that I didn't give you the líceum or any other kind of name... - did I give you a good idea? If someone gets a red dot for it, then... [[Defiance. Dr. Judit Bertalan, Mrs. Czunyi, you should have come earlier.]] Undisclosed purpose of renaming [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: For the sake of LMP!]] to increase the prestige of these institutions. We think that, obviously, this alone will not do so; it will certainly cause confusion in people's minds. It's a long, decades-long system of introductions, first-name names. According to LMP, we do not think it would be a good idea to change these usual names, especially since there is no change in content. In particular, it is not worth it when no substantial reform measures are taken on the basis of the amendments, and therefore the level of training will not improve. The only important measure is that they give you the opportunity to graduate in vocational school: after three years of vocational training, you can apply to a two-year graduate. We think it's a false illusion, we don't think it's really helpful. After all, for three years after primary school, they only study nine subjects six hours a week, so that's very little, and they forget what they learned in primary school, and then they have to get a graduation in two years. [[22.50]] I join your concern about whether I would like to lower my graduation level here, or I sincerely wonder how you will take this step. What makes you think this is gonna work? Renaming the secondary secondary school into a vocational high school is only good for providing an excellent opportunity for statistical magic, and there is a danger that they want to compensate for the future reduction of real high school space, which has already been mentioned. By the way, this many renaming is also a problem for EMMI, because in the summary amendment proposal they are diligently trying to translate new names into the Public Education Act, because the original amendment could not be fully implemented. Nor has it been possible to establish legal consistency between legislation and amendments, so now it has been necessary to amend this with the summary motion. There are more important parts of the summary proposal. You can see a direction in which you can get a degree in the Bridge program even if you complete different sub-qualifieds. With this, although more people will be able to obtain a certificate of formal qualifications, it is questionable whether this will have a labour market value. According to the LMP, it would be more necessary to strengthen education and improve quality so that as many young people as possible have real, useful knowledge and qualifications. We consider it an important amendment that there is choice and interoperability between the acquisition of different qualifications. Unfortunately, there's been only refinements here, not a substantial change. Now, professional training begins immediately in a vocational school that has been deprived of public knowledge, so the 14-15-year-old who, when enrolled in the vocational school, realizes that he made the wrong choice, can only go to another school if he repeats the year. If this professional training were to start later, perhaps they could do so without a repeat year after completing the 9th grade. Finally, I would like to say a few more words on the part concerning the appointment of the Director from the summary amendments. We still do not consider it fortunate that this system is centrally happening, it would be much luckier if it were not a one-man decision, but people who know local relations could do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-05-26-341	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, if she wishes to react. It says yes. Dr. Judit Bertalan has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-342	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the attention of this House at this late hour. I really think that what we are talking about is an important issue. In most of my fellow Members' contributions, the detailed discussion of the summarised amendments and the amendments was that it amends the public education law which, by the way, creates the background to vocational training. After all, I would like to reiterate once again what was said in the general debate - in the meantime, my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, has gone out, has not participated in the general debate, perhaps he would not have done some of his questions or contributions, namely - the extent to which the educational institutions are the background institutions of the educational portfolio, pedagogical professional services, the Education Office or OFI's professional tasks can be used by vocational training institutions. To the same extent as before, because the Public Education Act is the background law of the VET Act, and it is amended because we are thinking about a single school system and a school system, so all the input and output guarantees that govern children's careers and careers are defined in the Public Education Act. That is why both the VET Bridge programme and the separation of the basic bridge programme had to be dealt with in order to regulate and develop some transitional rules in the event of a summary amendment, and to address a lack of coherence with regard to some of the amendments actually received to the VET Act. I therefore believe that the purpose of today's amendment proposals before this House was indeed to bring about consistency with the VET law. With the support of the proposals and the summarised amendment of the Legislative Committee and the Cultural Committee, I think that all the vocational training reforms adopted by the government in the service of vocational training, the economy, along the lines of its concept, a more mobile, flexible system of public education, which can also fit into the labour market, while at the same time providing students with the possibility of interoperability between institutions and allowing multiple opportunities, together with the application of these two laws. I wouldn't talk about what name changes mean or don't mean. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow opposition Members here to the fact that this has been discussed in detail in the general debate, and that there was no debate at that time with regard to the aim of renewing the system of vocational training institutions and the system of vocational training in general towards a reinforcement of content. The name starts from the school year 2016 and starts from the entry into force of the law, as can be seen from the sections that have entered into force of the law. In this period, it is clear that the necessary content regulations, as well as framework and curriculum alignments, input and output rules, should be in line with the specific professional standards. And even before there's an alarm going out of the walls of the House, there is now, and there's always been a graduate prep based on vocational or vocational education. There were no more periods, we are talking about the same thing, but in a different system, with a stronger OKJ, it is possible to acquire a professional knowledge in the vocational school system, which, I think, will allow for stronger and more thorough training. Obviously, this is the definition of the content of the secondary school curriculum. So it's not about devilry, it's not about something completely, it's about criticising the opposition benches, it's about some brutal change in structure, it's about a stronger, more pronounced opportunity for existing and well-functioning protocols in the VET system. I stress that, in order to ensure that the terrifying data that my opposition colleagues have also called for, whether in the debate of the previous VET law or in the case of the fact that the proportion of unskilled school drop-outs following the completion of primary school is in the interests of vocational school, secondary school, generally secondary school, both the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training and the Bridge Programme, and these measures, are intended to serve the interests of pupils and children in order to tackle as few problems as possible public education and the school system. So I think that with these amendments, which have been tabled by both the Committee on Culture and the Legislative Committee, we can talk about a system of vocational training or a system of renewable vocational training, which has been developed in connection with the amendments received for vocational training and can indeed be interpreted in conjunction with the VET Act. And since the Public Education Act is the background rule, we need to keep certain guarantee elements here in the public education entry and exit rules and in the definition of the types of institutions. I believe that any changes and any proposals which, either in the general debate or in the detailed debate or in the Commission's debates, have served the purpose of strengthening vocational training in order to bring them to the profession that can be used and applied to children, I would like to thank this House for its support for both the amendment of the vocational training and the amendment of the Public Education Act. Thank you very much for the floor and for your attention, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-343	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1998 XXVII on genetic engineering follows a series of steps. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. The submission is T/4818. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4818/6. and T/4818/7. I'm sure they've come to know him. [[23.00]] I would like to inform you that, according to the House Rules adopted, the opening speech and the closing clause will be held in 20 minutes, 6 minutes for the legislative committee to speak, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 20 minutes' time frame for speaking in the debate and presenting the possible closing phrase. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-344	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the trial of an extremely important law today. As a result of more than four years of negotiation, the permanent cooperation of Hungarian diplomacy and agrarian diplomacy resulted in an amendment of EU legislation allowing Member States to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in the Member States in January of this year. After a long time, the agreement was finally reached in the Council, the European Parliament and the two institutions, and the parties reached a common denominator. I value all of this as a great success, and we Hungarians have very little role to play in this. The Hungarian position is backed by the prohibition contained in the Fundamental Law and the anti-GMO of the Hungarian people. Allow me to briefly explain to you the history of this agreement. We have long opposed the fact that the European Union's authorisation system for GMOs does not adequately reflect the will of Hungarian, European consumers or the majority of Member States. In particular, there is a sharp debate on this when it comes to the cultivation of GMOs. For years, the government has been fighting consistently at all possible forums to prevent the cultivation of genetically modified plants in our country. We have played a leading role in the fight for GMO free at both EU and international level, and I have enough to refer here to the "GMO-free Europe" initiative. Why is this regulation a huge milestone? Because in the current EU system, it is extremely difficult to preserve the GMO exemption, to introduce and maintain a moratorium, i.e. a ban on cultivation. This requires very costly scientific studies, to which variety owners do not even give seed protected by their patent. Thus, there is virtually no possibility of carrying out independent impact assessments. At the same time, the decision is not in our hands, but it is decided by other Member States or by the European Commission instead. This is unacceptable to us and violates Hungary's sovereignty. In July 2010, the European Commission presented a proposal to amend legislation five years ago to enable Member States to decide whether or not they want to grow GMOs in their territory. Moreover, the decision should not be based on environmental or health considerations, but on risks, but also on economic and social grounds. The idea of this was raised by Hungary in 2005. The negotiations on this issue, which was particularly sensitive both from an economic and political point of view, began in the second half of 2010, with numerous problems affecting the internal market, international obligations and certain EU legal issues. During the EU Presidency of Hungary, we have made great progress during the negotiation of the dossier. We have developed a system of grounds on which the prohibition measures can be based. At that time, however, there was a lack of sufficient political will in some major Member States to adopt the proposal. At the beginning of 2014, however, the vote to authorise the cultivation of genetically modified maize No 1507 in the EU caused such a storm that the countries realized that the historic moment of granting the decision to the Member States had just arrived. In June 2014, ministers made a major decision and finally voted in favour of the proposal for public cultivation. After that, only the European Parliament had to reach a final agreement. Negotiations with the European Parliament in December 2014 led the matter in the Council in a particularly good direction compared to the agreement reached by Member State ministers in June. The technical elements of the text, such as the reasons for the prohibition, which we managed to combat during the first half of 2011 during our Hungarian EU Presidency, were reappeared. They have made the agreement stronger, more legally secure and more favourable to us. At the end of the negotiations, at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 13 January 2015, the legislative amendment allowing Member States to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs was finally voted in favour. Directive 2015/412/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, which allows Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of certain genetically modified organisms in their territory on grounds of social, economic or other importance. In the course of the negotiations, Hungary has always been an initiative. Many Member States have adapted their position to our country and voted in favour of the proposed amendment. Let me now turn to what the new directive and the current legislative amendment are all about. For example, the decision to authorise the cultivation of a GMO arises not only with regard to the health or environmental risks of GMOs, but also with a number of other major issues to consider. Among other things, account should be taken of agricultural policy objectives, the economic impact of possible public cultivation, the social needs in this regard, the future of farming methods, such as organic farming, which could also be affected by GMO cultivation. In addition, the freedom of choice for consumers, farmers and economic operators should be ensured. Taking these into account, the new EU legislation provides Member States with greater decision-making flexibility in deciding whether they want to grow GMOs in their territory. This gives us a new, more effective tool to preserve GMO-free Hungarian agriculture. Under the directive and thus the proposed amendment of the law, there are two ways to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in the public sector. If the first option is used, we can ask the European Commission to amend the notification so that it does not apply to the territory of Hungary. If the applicant agrees, a Union authorisation is already granted which does not cover our country. From a legal point of view, this is the safest solution, and we definitely want to take advantage of it. If the applicant fails to comply with our request and does not modify its notification, we may prohibit the cultivation of that GMO plant on the basis of the second option. In this case, however, the scope of the EU cultivation licence will also be extended to the territory of our country, and the ex post ban should be supported by detailed technical reasons. The Directive also lays down transitional provisions in order to introduce a growing restriction or prohibition on licence applications for GMOs already authorised or submitted before the entry into force of the new Directive in accordance with the two options described above. There are currently eight applications for public cultivation in the European Union, so we must strive to adopt the law in order to prevent the domestic cultivation of these genetically modified maize. Only in this way do we have the opportunity to maintain GMO-free Hungarian agriculture. In this respect, we must also pay particular attention to the extremely tight deadlines. In fact, our country will be able to make use of the prohibition provided for in the transitional measures by 3 October 2015 at the latest. Ladies and gentlemen, We have therefore been at the forefront of the GMO issue in the European Union since our accession. This is no different in the transposition of the directive. Although a draft law on transposition has already been submitted to the Parliament in some EU Member States, if we act quickly enough, our country will be the first to incorporate the new directive into its internal law and to take the first advantage of its ban. I am convinced that this has a serious message to the public both at home and at the European Union. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the proposed legislation, ensuring the political consensus that has existed for almost a decade in the assessment of GMOs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Fidesz and MSZP.]] [[23.10]]
u2015-05-26-345	Thank you very much for your speech. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee, within a six-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-346	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that today the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4818 on the basis of a derogation from the adopted decision house rule. a proposal for an amendment to the 1998 Law on Genetic Activity, to which the Committee has unanimously submitted a proposal for an amendment with 33 votes in favour. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion. The aim of the proposal is to correct an inaccuracies, as the bill 1. It introduces the concept of a request for a territorial limitation of the licence, but later uses it inaccurately. The Legislative Committee corrects this codification error. The proposal as a whole serves to transpose the provisions of Directive 2015/412/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/18/EC as regards the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory into the Hungarian legal order, which is therefore fully complied with. In the light of the ministerial exposé, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill in accordance with the objectives set out there. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-347	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, a speech by the Members who have applied in writing, first of all by Mr FontSándor, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-348	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2004, we were well-known for joining the European Union, and at that time the European Union allowed the plants submitted to the Genetically Committee, recommended for cultivation, to be grown by the respective Member States at the initiative of the variety owners, and it was necessary to decide whether, at the time of accession, we would ask for a moratorium to prohibit cultivation. Hungary made use of this possibility, the official document was submitted in January 2005 for the varieties which were then to be grown alone in Hungary, the maize hybrid of Monsanto 810. This moratorium has only protected us for a few years. In the autumn of 2006, the issue was renegotiated, and the government then decided to make an amendment to the law on the modification of the existing Genetically Law No 98 at the time. The submitted version was rejected by the Committee on Agriculture as the first-placed committee, not included in the series of objects, because practically an extremely permissible version of the rules on co-existence was presented with a loose interpretation in which we would have practically opened up the possibilities of GMO cultivation. After the main committee, which I had already led, rejected this submitted bill, its suitability for a general debate, an internal discussion was launched on how to proceed. It was felt that there were also those in the governing party, the then governing party, who disagreed with the government's submitted draft law. Together, after consulting the then governing parties, on 22 November 2006 we organised an open day in Parliament, in which we debated the benefit/bottom of cultivation of first generation GM crops in agriculture for Hungary. What we need to know is that during the debate on the draft law, we were approaching the final vote, and we tabled very, very strict amendments, which practically completely rewritten the draft law submitted by the government, and would have prohibited it, through the strict rules set out, and would have made the cultivation of GMOs in Hungary impossible. We have provided for a protection zone and prior conditionalities that would have made cultivation almost unrespectable for farmers who wish to grow. However, the debate of the law did not end, and at this conference, at which all the pro-GMOs and thus the Hungarian representatives of the breed owners were all present - here in the Felsőházi Chamber the nearly eight-hour debate was held, about 600 of us participated in it - Minister József Gráf came to the close, who indicated that he had just arrived from the government meeting, and that the government had accepted the very strict amendments initiated by the opposition, but which seemed to be supported by the then governing party, which indicated a clear expression of the prohibition. That is when it became clear that, in the long term, we will now opt for the ban at the legal level. Meanwhile, very important international events took place, such as the fact that Angela Merkel became Chancellor of the German Republic for the period 2005-2009. This is exciting because Germany was still allowed to grow GMOs during that period. Another very important turn is that in 2007 Nicolas Sarkozy became President of the Republic of France. This is important because France has also allowed GMO crops to be grown until it was elected Prime Minister Sarkozy. In fact, Austria, Hungary and the Scandinavian countries were the leaders who protested and demanded that we put the issue of GMO cultivation into national competence. But the fact that France rejected GMO cultivation under Sarkozy's influence in the first step and then, a year later, Germany chose this path became clear that there had been a complete change in European behaviour; perhaps it could be said that this was the beginning of the Hungarian and Austrian flagship, in which we categorically protested against the cultivation of GMO crops, and we wanted to take this decision into our own hands. Of course, this did not go so easily, Minister, he referred in several turns to the series of struggles, one of which was, for example, that Hungary led the EU Presidency in 2011. I had already called the Presidents of the European Union of the Agriculture Committees to a meeting here, and the GMO issue was on the agenda. There has been an extremely interesting debate on the logic of which countries allow and which countries would like to prohibit and prohibit the cultivation and cultivation of GMOs. At the same time, we used this EU Presidency in 2011 to practically establish the basis for the ban, which we believe is the basis for introducing a complete ban on this country. At that time, the European Union was watching this with a distance. In 2012, Denmark was the country joining our logic, also leading an EU Presidency, which was determined to develop a logical system of prohibition. Unfortunately, this was not yet successful at the time, and as Minister said, in 2014, the EU authority authorising crop cultivation authorised the cultivation of a GMO maize variety. And that's when the anger got out of control. In domestic legislation, we must not bypass our Fundamental Law, which, in its last turn, we tabled an amendment against the introduction of GMOs into public cultivation, which was finally adopted, in the last turn of the amendments - who observed this. So we thought that we had created the whole legislative environment, both on the professional line and on the basic line of law, in order to give a clear reference to the neighbouring and European Union countries. I say the surrounding because Romania allows this method of cultivation, and unfortunately we had a problem with it when illegally Romania - now it has been proven - transferred GMO reproductive material produced in Romania to Hungarian farmers in an unauthorised manner. [[23.20]] This led to a serious procedure: farmers had to be ploughed and compensated by the variety owner. This was already well-known to the former government's ministry, Minister Fazekas, when this procedure had to be carried out. Why is that an exciting question? Perhaps many do not understand and do not have time to discuss the issue of the benefit-disadvantage of GMO crops. We clearly see the disadvantage of the argument system as very serious, which is why we were placed at the time, all five parliamentary parties... - so from 2006 all five parliamentary parties are clearly and ever since arguing clearly against GMO plants. But let me mention to the classic Monsanto 810 corn, after its genetic map has been unveiled and tried to protect against various insect pests on a non-traditional chemical basis... - but it was invented that the toxin-producing gene of Bacillus thuringiensis was simply removed, unfortunately with nanotechnology we can do this, highlighted and simply inserted into the model of the maize gene that had already been discovered by then. It's been inserted in one place. This did not cause any change in the corn, except that from now on it produces poison and toxin in the ground through its roots. With this, it really kills the corn horse, against which, on a traditional basis, we have defended ourselves with a single small problem, as many people mentioned at the 2006 conference, as a result of Hungarian experiments, that this corn produces 1500-2000 times more toxins in its life than we have been chemically exposed to the destruction of the same insects - just to illustrate the deceivings of the analytical and research society, who have always followed the spread of GMOs. As a result, we know the final turnaround: From April 2015, the said article allows the Member States to decide on the issue of authorisation or prohibition through their own legislation. In accordance with our custom and tradition, this draft law sets out a ban, a clear ban. Of course, we recommend that we adopt this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-26-349	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Zoltán Gőgös, Member, MSZP, here.
u2015-05-26-350	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! I told my colleagues here that at this time of night, we only work in the village when the cow passes, but now it's a special event, because we have to do something fast. This has been indicated by Minister. Both Minister and our fellow Member Font have said that this has come a long way since we started working together on this, and it seems that the result has also been achieved. We very much welcome the fact that the European Union has reached the point that this matter is more important than forcing Member States to make a decision that, for example, Hungary clearly and for a long time has not agreed. There will be a task here: this is about the part of the story that, obviously, from now on, no such cultivation will be in our home, because the system of considerations that the directive defines, by extending significantly the health and other risks, will solve the fact that such a plant should not enter public production in Hungary. There's one thing we can't do: stop the pollen at the border. This is what my fellow Member has pointed out, that it would be good to convince the neighbours, whether the EU partners or those who are not yet, but to be EUs, to accept the argument system that this is causing economic damage to Europe. I understand quite a lot of negotiations in this case, even as Secretary of State. My hardest trial was with a five-year-old mother who wanted to convince me how good that genetically modified rape was. So very powerful forces have moved on this subject. Obviously, this is a huge business, and it has not yet been discussed, but obviously, in the absence of time, I have to say that it is not the seed itself, so you have to see this, but that if someone starts to grow such seed, it can only use the other ingredients of that breed owner, because it clearly determines the entire growing cycle and cannot freely use other products. Plus, the thing that made the first ones up against the moth and the bug is a perfectly good solution to having the right crop rotation. So if someone doesn't want to, let's say, produce corn in the same field for decades, because that's obviously the cause of the problem, and that's why they needed a solution, but we can see that this has caused damage that has now been caused by hidden research evidence, that that huge amount of toxins has certainly, in some places, even the worm, so not just the pathogen that was used against it. So I say that it was a matter of vital importance for Hungary to stick to this issue and it was worth it. We would have been in a very, very difficult position on the side of seed production if any of these attempts had been successful. In principle, it could have been produced here, and my fellow Member referred to this, but that intermediate cultivation law was so strict that it was impossible to do so in practice. That's what we saw, there was conflict. We have received the bill a few times to think that it is a quasi ban, but fortunately there have been changes in Europe too, many have realized that we are right, and I believe that we must continue to be consistent in this. After all, what you have said, Minister, is that the directive must be transposed into domestic case law, but we would prefer to transpose it much more than we did at the time with the co-production law, how to do a solution that gives us a gift, not even a gift, as a good king. I felt very good about the kind of cooperation that had developed in this case at the time, and everyone in the then government understood why this was important to Hungary. I think there would be other cases like this, and I think I submitted it last week to protect the fertility of our soils, and I recommend it once again to everyone, because now we have half the agricultural government, and we have to take action in that. So I'm saying we can't go beyond the fact that we can be robbed. It may not be exactly the way I described it, but it is also a matter, I think, of almost similar importance, and I also suggest that the government start thinking about what we can do to protect the soils in Hungary beyond what is our current legislation. So I don't think we're gonna have a big fight about this. The bill has raised everything that is in this directive, and I am asking everyone to support it. We are trying to protect this position, and the next step is obviously what comes into Hungary in the food sector. That's gonna be a harder question, obviously, a much more complicated, much harder case, but I wouldn't confuse the two. This is already a very important issue for us in terms of agricultural production, and the next step from here on is to at least raise awareness among the population of what it consumes, because I believe that the market can already select it if we are consistent in this matter. So I also believe that joint success should be welcomed, and perhaps we should continue to work together on this matter. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-26-351	Congressman Imre Vejkey, the representative of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-352	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a strategic interest for our country to preserve Hungary's GMO-free status. Taking into account the ecological, health and economic risks of GMOs, we need to do everything we can to preserve the GMO-free status of our country, bearing in mind future generations, environmental safety and, not least, our growing competitive advantage from our GMO-free status, as well as the fact that the future consequences of abandoning GMOs are not visible. [[23.30]] I would just like to point out here that, for example, the DDT insecticide introduced in the late '40s received a Nobel Prize and was banned for a few decades due to its extremely harmful effects on the human body. Ladies and Gentlemen, With the agreement of five parliamentary parties, the Parliament formulated Hungary's GMO-free strategy, as well as the tasks necessary to achieve and preserve it, which did not change, i.e. did not reduce our refusal to GMO products, and even strengthened by the main legal standard when the new Fundamental Law came into force on 1 January 2012, which provides for the maintenance of Hungary's GMO-free agriculture. Hungary has insisted on its decision and has been leading the fight since the date of the EU directive on 13 January 2015 to allow Member States to decide on their own GMO-free status. This is the victory of the Hungarian position in the European Union. On this basis, the aim of the bill is to ensure that Hungary is the first to adopt a law on the complete ban on GMOs on the basis of the EU GMO directive. Under the Directive, Member States may prohibit or restrict the cultivation of GMOs in two ways. In the case of the first option, the Member State may, in the course of the authorisation procedure, request the applicant company via the European Commission to amend its notification in order not to extend the territorial scope of the EU licence to part or all of the territory of that Member State. In this case, the territorial scope of the original application and the authorisation granted on this basis are therefore amended. If the applicant does not agree with the request of the Member State and continues to maintain its original application, the Member State may prohibit the cultivation of that GMO plant on the basis of the second option. In the case of the second option, the Member State shall be free to decide, after authorisation, on the prohibition or restriction, indicating to the Commission its detailed reasons. It is up to the Member State to decide whether to take into account any comments received from the Commission or not. Option 2 may also be applied where the first option has not been used by the Member State. Ladies and Gentlemen, Under the Fundamental Law, the Hungarian law applies the complete prohibition and zero tolerance. In addition to the current legislative amendment proposal, a regulation on labelling will also be developed, which will require information on food on GMOs. This is important because their unwanted GMO import prices can now be filtered and banned at the border. Several Member States are interested in the Hungarian proposal to make the EU a GMO-free zone, and it is also in Hungary's interest to keep as many countries as possible GMO-free in its environment, given that pollens cross borders. Finally, allow me to thank our fellow Member, Mr Font Sándor, for his heroic struggle, and also thank the opposition for its support in maintaining Hungary's GMO-free status. Please support T/4818. The KDNP faction supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-353	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-26-354	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to thank all the speakers in front of me for the historical presentation we have heard here in relation to the GMO fight. I'm sorry there's only so many of us in this House and only so many of us could listen. I am pleased that there has been a long-standing consensus in the matter of GMOs in Hungary, and this direction must be taken further. I think so, too, and I will not give you a big surprise if I tell you that Jobbik supports this directive, which we are now putting into the Hungarian legal order. We also understand the urgency and we think it is justified that we have voted for a reason to derogate from the house rules, but it would have been good if there had been some more time for the amendments to be tabled. If I remember correctly, they had to be done by 15:00 today, so there will be a change or direction that we can unfortunately share with you orally. We believe, as I said, that, of course, this is a proposal to be supported, but let's face it, even in relation to the Hungarian Fundamental Law, this is a step backwards, since the Fundamental Law states that for all people living in Hungary the right to a healthy physical and mental life is a prerequisite, and that is also linked to the ability of people living in Hungary to obtain GMO-free food. This proposal is very far from this, because it is only about public cultivation, which is indeed a step forward, and we are pleased that it is finally possible to write down in concrete legislation that our country can forbid GMO cultivation, but it really is only a primary step. The fight that will perhaps start, hopefully more actively in the field of food and feed, I hope that it will not take as long as this fight, which may have come to pass now, although we have concerns about, for example, how TTIP or similar agreements might override or influence it. But back to the original idea, as you said, we have been members of the EU since 2004, and we have now achieved this result by 2015. If Brussels and the Member States are to work at the same pace, a few more years or no more, it is necessary to wait a decade to achieve similar successes in the field of feed or food. In this way, I was just referring to this, when I said that this is a significant step backwards compared to the Fundamental Law, and the kind of subtitle that is now planned, and what the debates are about in Brussels, I would also like to ask the Hungarian Government to take a firm position and, at the very least, we expect that the GMO marking should be displayed in a way similar to tobacco products on a large surface, in a highly visible way. And then, of course, a small letter can be used to describe exactly what it means in practice, but let's have a uniform, at least a quarter of the packaging of the product, let's say, a loading signal, which makes it clear what kind of product it is. Our fellow Member Vejkey pointed out that this could also be important because in this way products containing incoming GMOs could then be banned from the country. There is still a lot of EU legislation and possibly fundamental EU directives that need to be amended, and I am very keen on this fight, although we are very sceptical about it. I also consider it very important that negotiations and progress on the neighbours take place. Indeed, it will be very difficult to keep our GMO exemption in practice if a number of our neighbours do not become partners in this. I do not know if this could be heard in more detail about where these negotiations are taking place and which countries may be involved in the area, who may not be on the side of the ban at the moment, but there is a chance that their views can be translated, it would be important to know about it. Also, what is closely linked may be the protein program that we have often heard about since 2010, because without this, without its success, it will be difficult to replace the GMO soy, and in this way we will not be able to make any meaningful progress in the field of nutrition and food. As I said, we fully understand the urgency, and it is very important that what you said, Minister, I think, if I remember correctly, you will be able to signal to our country by the end of October that we do not wish to grow the varieties that are now to be approved in our country. This, too, I believe, will be possible in this way now, because we have also contributed to the urgency. [[23.40]] That's what I wanted to tell you in brief. So in conclusion, we support it, but I would like answers to the questions that I have said, and I would ask the government to show a similar determination in further progress, and it would be good to rush the processes, because we do not want to wait another 10 to 15 years to get to this point in the field of feed and food. Thank you and I would like to give this opportunity to my fellow Member. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-05-26-355	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, please.
u2015-05-26-356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to seed production, at all, this bill, which lies before us, is indeed very welcome and should be supported, and indeed it is only a small step, but we still need to take every little step to reach the final goal. If the question is whether I see a chance for myself - whether as a private opinion or as a faction point - to preserve the GMO-free status of Hungary in the European Union or to become GMO-free, I say that I do not see that happening at the moment. And not primarily with regard to cultivation, but, as has been said here several times, with regard to food containing GMOs and genetically modified organisms, because at the moment, we cannot prevent the importation of these products, precisely because of fundamental freedoms, fundamental rights, fundamental freedoms, such as the free movement of goods and services, which are the basic features of the European Union. Of course, Hungary can decide, as a Member State's authority, whether to allow genetically engineered seed or such an organism to grow, but at the moment, unfortunately, the problem is that there are also foods on the shelves of shops that contain genetically engineered soy or other organisms, in any small amount, and we have to say that only the complete ban on GMOs can be the only one, which is acceptable, there is no such thing as just a little bit, we only allow it to do so. It is a clear question to me that we cannot allow a genetically engineered organism in our own organization, either through the law we produce or through food raised from the shelves of shops, precisely because we do not know, nor do we know, what effect this has on human health in the long term, nor is it obvious that what we know is necessarily positive. A lot of people are fighting for that GMO, and you can hear it saying that with the number of people in the world today, you can't feed so many people without genetically engineered crops. We in Hungary are in a lucky position to have a very good quality and sufficient amount of soil available to provide ourselves with healthy food, traditional production and cultivation methods, and not to allow genetically manipulated organisms in. It is to be welcomed that the governments of all time are trying to do so, and, of course, Jobbik, if it goes to government, will also be no exception, just as it is no exception as an opposition. Of course, we support any such initiative, but it cannot be said enough, we should move towards full rigour, and we should also fight at European Union level to fight for freedom in order not only to grow, but in general, to allow a country to be completely banned in the placing on the market of genetically manipulated products. Once again, in the current EU basic trade freedoms, and here at the threshold of TTIP, on the threshold of the transatlantic agreement, I do not think that this is possible, and I do not see this direction at the moment, that this is the future, especially once again, if we sign such an agreement, from which transatlantic, i.e. transatlantic, transatlantic, transgenic crops and organisations will be able to shake onto the European Union and Europe. Against this, I think that everything must be done, but I do not think there is a difference of opinion in this either, Minister, I think that the parties of government and the other opposition parties are thinking in the same way. And I think this is an extremely good opportunity, an opportunity for the entire Parliament to act together on this issue, on such very rare, very few issues, either to the European Union or to other foreign countries or to organisations, and to protect Hungary and to protect the health of Hungarian people from genetically manipulated organisations. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Dr. Sándor Fazekas applauds.]]
u2015-05-26-357	Thank you, too. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek is next, LMP.
u2015-05-26-358	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Right here, my fellow Member and I are discussing in the group how good the situation is that, in fact, we do not have to argue with the government that someone wants to grow GMOs, but that it is a very, very good and successful situation and a good position that we can now talk about that Parliamentary factions fully agree that there is a need for regulation and a need for a uniform ban. So, first of all, allow me to express my joy that the government represents a good goal and a good position. I have listened with great pleasure to the introduction of my fellow Member, Mr Font, and it was very interesting for me to review for several cycles with a specialist who has seen this through, and it is only possible to identify with that opinion that such domestic regulation is necessary and that it is necessary to do so. The problem is that neither the Minister nor my fellow members of the Government have given a concrete answer as to why this regulation is good and why we need this regulation. And here are the reservations that my fellow opposition Members have already started to say in part, because, in practice, if we look at Hungary's GMO-free status from the transposition of this directive, we must clearly establish that it is not insured. At the time - there is a Nature Conservation Act in Hungary - when the Habitats Directive or the Birds Directive had to be transposed into Hungarian law, this could be done in the form of a government decree, because a higher level of legislation already provided for the legal instruments that would have needed to preserve the natural wealth of our country. That's what we need here, too. At the legislative level, a much stricter and better regulation than this directive should implement this ban, because it is only a minimum in itself. As a Member State, we are meeting the minimum that the EU expects of us from this directive. We don't do anything more, that's enough for two. It became above 2 so that we might be the first to do so, but this will not increase Hungary's environmental health risk safety, and this will not make it much better! Because, as the GMO exemption has been said, the Minister used such words that the EU has given a huge milestone and a huge freedom of choice. I want you to tell me what the condition of the day before yesterday is going to be different from that of the day after tomorrow. Technically, the Hungarian basic law guarantees the GMO exemption that we have respected so far, we saw it two months ago - I don't know if it was in Bács-Kiskun County or in Békés County - and the authority acted and prevented it. This is what he can do after ratification of the legislation, if he is accepted, he will have the same opportunities. At the same time, protein-based feeds will also include food containing GMOs in cattle farming because it cannot be excluded because the Schengen border and the Schengen Convention provide an opportunity to bring in a mass of protein-based feeds from a GMO background that, say, risks our meat supply from a food safety point of view. Similarly, the problem is that to date, any child can remove a food containing GMOs from the shelves, and at best, it is possible to obtain an obligation to display them, and it is not possible to completely ban products of this kind from the shelves in Hungary. And because of that, it doesn't seem perfectly appropriate. Therefore, I must be honest with you, Minister, with this proposal, we have had a lot of trouble, because obviously our position is that we fully agree with the goals, we fully support the objectives that the Government represents on this issue, but we do not consider the means to be sufficient. The instruments would be considered sufficient if they could use all the opportunities available to the government in a legal form. It is okay to transpose an EU directive in unchanged form, and it will do so because it must do so, but there is nothing to prevent Hungarian legislation from supplementing it with a legislative background that means further bans. Although the question arises as to how it could implement such legislation. And that's a problem because we still have the same exposure. This particular greater freedom of choice, mentioned by Minister, is not in this case a victory for our agricultural diplomacy, but a loss. And I am not saying that you are to blame, and I am not saying that the government has missed out on this, but the only security here would have been to ban the cultivation of GMOs in the European Union. [[23.50]] The only great result would have been for the EU as a whole to say and put it in a directive. Each Member State does what it wants to do - a very sympathetic liberal approach for those Member States that want to produce and nearly half of the EU Member States want to commit to GMOs. That's why we don't see it as secure. But we still say that if the government said that it could not do so, it would still have another instrument, because without further ado, it could say that either the Canadian Free Trade Convention or the Transatlantic Free Trade Convention, which could pose a risk to the preservation of the European Union's GMO-free nature, and therefore Hungary, in any respect, if it announces a veto, would take the sufficient step to ensure a greater degree of environmental security for the European Union. But to do so, the government must commit itself to TTIP against CETA, and it must take a clear position in the European Union that it will not allow these free trade agreements to be concluded. But right now, it doesn't even have communication, and unfortunately, the government doesn't stand up. A few days ago, during the last week, a representative of the government gave a presentation in the Hunting Room about how good trade will be and how much the Free Trade Agreement will help the Hungarian economy. As long as some experts in your wallet say that we should not allow what could endanger the loss of our GMO exemption, while a Head of Department of the Ministry of National Economy says that such free trade agreements give Hungary the opportunity, this does not provide Hungary with sufficient assurance that it can preserve this GMO exemption. As I said in my introduction, this is a big problem for the government, because we see it meeting the minimum, but it cannot ensure that Hungary is GMO-free with this directive, it cannot achieve what the Hungarian Fundamental Law would make mandatory and that Hungarian citizens should be able to achieve or access GMO-free foods as part of their right to a healthy environment, and that is why we are in this hopeless situation, whether we can be satisfied with such a semi-solution or a fragmented solution. Obviously, if political communication is the goal, it can be said that there is one more piece of paper. That's why I like to see lawyers at the head of every department, because they always accept such legislation, and then they think they've solved something, because there's one more law, or one more law, and a few more paragraphs. Unfortunately, the concern that protein-based feeds come in the same way, the shelves of shops can be threatened in the same way, the pollen has already been mentioned, it can also be naturally contaminated, seeds can be introduced at the Schengen borders. It is obviously your job to trust the administrative body, and it is my job as an opposition representative to have less confidence in it, but the last month has not only proved that you have found it, because we do not know if you have found it all. And as a result, the risk has clearly been proven only in relation to the events of the last month. For this reason, we would expect the agricultural government, in addition to the transposition of the directive, to bring forward a draft legislation at the same speed, which will create a significantly greater degree of security for Hungarian citizens and will also bring about the possibility of a high degree of awareness-raising that Member States of the European Union, which are committed to allowing GMO cultivation today, might change the EU policy, and this directive should not, with such a liberal thought, allow all Member States to do what they want, but to have the EU to be a GMO-free zone. I'm asking the government to help me with this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-359	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak out of the remaining time frame. I see Congressman Font's intention to speak, but that remains an intention because he does not have a time frame. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: KDNP still has one!]] Congressman, KDNP still has one. I wouldn't want to inspire you, but if you solve the technical problem, of course you have an opportunity. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-360	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I'd like to give you the time frame that's left over for nearly four minutes.
u2015-05-26-361	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I see the congressman's good intentions, but only Deputy Group Leader can do that according to house rules.
u2015-05-26-362	I am!
u2015-05-26-363	Congratulations on that.
u2015-05-26-364	Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-365	Then, wishing you good health, you have the time frame for Congressman Font. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the KDNP's allowed time. I did not think that a lack of historical knowledge would lead to unsubstantiated opinions that need to be reflected. Let me be clear about the voice of the representatives of Jobbik and LMP. First of all, what we can prohibit is the prohibition of GMOs in the field of public cultivation in Hungary. We cannot prohibit the import of food containing parts of GMOs in free trade. We can't forbid that. We want to do this, we are ready for it, but there is far from being enough EU legislation to prohibit this from being done by the Member State in question. Now we've forbidden public cultivation. And we're not far from being free to decide on the nomination. Because let's be clear, what Lajos Kepli has already said is that as a result of the free movement of goods and services, such a ban cannot be made in the food trade. The other part, referred to by Mr Zoltán Magyar, is the nomination. As surprising as it may be, labels and any nominations are not covered by national legislation, but are covered by EU legislation. That is why we are forced to continue a rather serious struggle with the label. The labelling could be the logic of the large letters and the surface on which the food packaging material should be marked that it contains a GMO derivative. When Dacian Cioloş was still in Hungary as EU Agriculture Commissioner and we visited and consulted as committee president, we hit the GMO issue hard. Romania, as I said, allows, and Cioloş was on this issue about what to say and said that we should leave it to consumers. At the time, I suggested a much more progressive idea than marking, so that if we leave it to the consumer, then let us do so by separating GMO products and non-GMO products on a shelf system in retail areas. Let's write out stone-hard in large letters that these foods are GMO products, these are conventional, traditional or organic products, because let's not forget that there is another very serious area of organic products, and then we really leave it to the consumer to see which shelf he is going to go to. We already know that 80-85 percent of Hungarian residents reject the consumption of GMO products, if they can do so, the opinion poll on all citizens of the Union rejects GMO products by 60-70%. So there is no question which shelf consumers would go to. Unfortunately, these licences are far from within the legal competence of a Member State. With the four-year fight that started from 2010-11, we have managed to make sure that we can now ban the entry into public production in a round pretzel. But this does not mean the possibility of freedom of marking, perhaps the establishment of a consumer's eligibility criterion, the keeping of these foods on separate shelves. That's where we could really hit the GMO products. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-26-367	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-05-26-368	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The joyful situation is that I can say that I fully agree with Mr Font. Well, I'm just saying that the reason why we can't book this as a full agricultural diplomacy success is because these options are not yet provided. The problem is precisely when, as Chairman of the Commission, I say that as Chairman of the Commission, because two committees previously included the operation of the GMO Round Table, this accelerated procedure is a problem precisely because a professional body of the kind, such as the GMO Round Table, cannot properly discuss them. Then we could talk about a professional debate. And obviously, it also contributes to my concerns that the President of the GMO Round Table, I believe, has given me, as many of them, his reservations about the legislation. And yet we are talking about a professor of title, the president of the Ecotoxicology Society, who specializes in this, and therefore we can only rely on his position professionally at some level. And obviously, it doesn't strengthen our confidence that he expressed a very critical opinion completely. [[Sándor Font: He says it's too strict.]]
u2015-05-26-369	Hello, hello! I know midnight's coming, but there's only one person to talk.
u2015-05-26-370	All this would contribute, which is why it would have been good if we had not had to discuss this in such an accelerated procedure, and there would have been more opportunities for a professional debate on how to supplement it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-26-371	They make each other feel good. Congressman Haughty, MSZP!
u2015-05-26-372	Thank you very much. I would just like to emphasise and say to my fellow Member, Sallai, that I would not confuse these two things. [[0.00]] So this thing solves our problem from the point of view of agricultural production. From this point on, Hungary does not need to use any tricks to simply prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Hungary. So far, a thousand tricks had to be used, and a co-production law that, although it was supposed to allow them to produce, couldn't do it in practice. From now on, of course, there will be no change here, because we've never let it happen before, but at what cost did we not let it? So I definitely see this as a breakthrough. Now, this may be a step forward in trying to achieve a complete GMO exemption in Europe, but this is what we have reservations about, and in our time it may not succeed. However, what was most dangerous to the industry was simply forcing us to allow them, which would have caused us terrible damage. I wouldn't reduce the importance of this law, because I think we shouldn't confuse the two things. What has been written here by various organs is that they didn't have time, this isn't about time. We simply need to transpose a directive here. It's a technical matter, after all, if I look at it, the only reason it's an important technical matter is because that's why we worked together for about ten years to get here. The other may not succeed in ten years. It's a different topic, though, whether or not it can be detected now, let's say, the effect of soya in a macaroni, the soy that, say, was eaten by a poultry. It's a more difficult question. I'm not sure that's even detectable. And the metastatic effect is completely different from the direct infecting of the entire country. Now, this is about how no one can do that from now on. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-26-373	Congressman Kepli, do you require these four seconds? [[For signal:]] Good... [[Defiance.]] Stand up, but I'll ring it off in two seconds. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-374	Thank you. Congressman Font, we agree, because that's exactly what I said. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We can't rest until we get the complete ban. That makes sense. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-05-26-375	Thank you so much. It was good. I'm not going to ask you anything, just that since you're running out of time for everyone who doesn't want to live with it now, the Minister will say a closing word, but only after I find that there are no more speakers. The consolidated debate is closed. Thus, the Minister, as rapporteur, can give his opinion for more than ten minutes at his disposal. That was a limit, not a thump of opportunity. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-376	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is an important subject, and it seems that we are concerned and I am trying to put it briefly, but I would like to tell the honourable speakers what further information can help them to decide. I would like to thank Mr Font, Member Vejkey, Zoltán Gőgös, everyone who has spent time on this subject and is here with us. I mean, basically, I think we're on the same page. The basic issue is that the country should remain GMO-free. Another thing is that we have now dealt with three areas: seed, food and feed. This is not the same in real terms, nor in terms of legislation. Different laws apply to each of them, as appropriate. So I agree that we need to isolate these. Then I'd like to answer some points. Convince the neighbors. In order to create and create a GMO-free Europe, I am constantly coordinating with all agricultural ministers, we are also lettering and we can say that there is a decisive anti-GMO position, for example, Poland, Cyprus, Greece; Romania is more pro-GMO, Czech Republic pro-GMO, Bulgaria is anti-GMO, Austria, Slovenia is definitely anti-GMO, and this is also the French position. Slovakia is now moving towards anti-GMO. Germany is also likely to be regulated at provincial level. Luxembourg is anti-GMO. There is a change of opinion in Ireland, there is no production in the Baltics, it is regulated by the municipalities of Croatia, Italy is also anti-GMO and some southern states, England and Scandinavian states belong to the GMO camp. The GMO pro-GMO camp is running out, as public pressure cannot be underestimated on this issue. The negotiations are ongoing here, and I hope that we can manage this during the first semester. The proposal of MEP Zoltán Magyar for GMO food. There was a check, by the way, the day before last, and we didn't find any of that product. We also check both the inscriptions and the content of the product itself. Obviously, the current procedures are still improving, but we have carried out quite thorough, quite serious investigations. That the rule was a step backwards from the constitution, I don't think that's true. This rule is based on the Constitution, it means its application. A specific application to this situation, to this task. The government, the FM, will also stand firm for anti-GMO in the coming period. The current legislation, the seed law, the seed regulation and other implementing regulations are sufficient grounds for the fact that if GMO contaminated plants are found, we can dial it, burn the seed, and so on. So there is an internal legal background, but it has now been achieved that the EU directive actually equips us with the same tools. Things are turning around. So far, we have been able to ban GMO seed in internal law, we had to sue the Union for it, we had to win the lawsuit, as was the case in concrete cases, but now Hungary can use the means of banning it through the Commission, and we have other options, we can create our own internal bans. As far as subtitles are concerned, it is extremely important and I fully agree with the mention of GMO feed. Here Hungary is looking for alternative plants that have joined a GMO-free Danube area. We help the cultivation of GMO-free soya with agricultural subsidies, and so this year, the data is not yet accurate, but the cultivation area of GMO-free soya is doubled in Hungary. So we took a step towards replacing imports. I'm looking to see if I've touched on all the suggestions. Free Trade Agreement. It does not contain GMOs, but I agree with the need to pay close attention to it, since there should be no loopholes between the lines. The effects on Hungarian agriculture are constantly being addressed. The fact that there is a debate about this obviously also follows from different government perspectives. Hungary cannot sign a free trade agreement contrary to the Constitution. So we need to solve that, ensure that the country retains its GMO-free status. By the way, whether it can be improved, several Members here have indicated whether this law is enough or not, whether we can leave so far or not. Obviously, these are the tools we can use. It is worth a thorough study of the regulation, as well as the legislation that is currently available, and we also have the possibility of regulations that we will be able to use in the future. In any case, the safeguard clause is based on environmental and health reasons, so there is a further possibility of a complete ban. It will not cease to be our proceedings and the law will be passed. So the law is a high-level rule after all. Here in Mr Sallai's speech, I think this has escaped your attention that we are talking about a very high level of legislation. It is, for example, the seed law that has laid down standards. Congressman Kepli says it's a small step or a step. Well, that's an extremely big step, because seed is the basis for agricultural production. Without it, there's no crop, there's no livestock, there's no food. So you have to grab the story at the beginning, with the seed. If a country has once released seed production, it is vulnerable to other seed producers, it is also vulnerable to traders. And then you can't control what's going to grow at the border, because obviously every fiber of sea or other plant, soy, can't be checked. Therefore, it is of fundamental interest that we take this story in seed, based on agricultural production. [[0.10]] I'm just checking to see if there's anything else I haven't touched. I would perhaps like to say about feed that feed is obviously a very serious problem. Hungary has 750,000 tonnes of soya imports, the EU has 23 million tonnes, if these figures are accurate. You can't replace that overnight. Very serious livestock is based on imported feed in the Union. However, we must go in the direction that the Union produces feed - it can - and replace its GMO soy. But it's different to feed a GMO feed, and it's different once again to put the border full of GMO plants. Then we can no longer defend the purity of the continent. By the way, how pollen pollution is going to cross the border, corn, possibly through the air, on the wings of wind, is a positive development here. So, while in Romania over the last five to six years, thousands of hectares of GMOs have been produced, this has now been reduced to 200 to 300 hectares. So this thing's gone. There are several EU Member States that may never say that they prohibit GMO cultivation, yet there will be no farmer, no producer who will do this because the food itself is unsellable, and no food will be bought. This is why it is important to preserve Hungary's GMO-free nature, because this is how we can maintain quality Hungarian food production, which is extremely important for the health of the population, and not least for exports. I trust that the agreement on GMOs, as has been the case so far, in the case of important decisions of even greater weight, will still be reached. After all, as has been said on several occasions, as a result of a series of multi-annual negotiations, we have now been able to reach this point that, on the basis of this rule, we can ban all GMOs plants from the country. And then we continue to do this work in areas where regulation and life require it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2015-05-26-377	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-378	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Thursday, 21 May, we celebrated the day of Hungarian defence. On this day we remember the revenue of Buda Castle in 1849. On this great day, on the day of Hungarian defence, we welcome the women and men who have sworn to protect the lives of their countrymen, Hungary's independence and freedom, even by sacrificing their lives. We welcome the soldiers and all the employees of the Hungarian Defence Forces. They are the ones who, side by side with the police forces and thousands of volunteers, saved lives during natural and industrial disasters, who, in cooperation with soldiers from other nations, are now serving in dangerous crisis zones around the world in order to create a safer, more peaceful world. Our soldiers have been exemplary everywhere today and have gained great recognition among our allies. Hungary is proud of its soldiers and the entire Hungarian Army. Unfortunately, this appreciation has been less and less reflected by the salary of soldiers and defence workers over recent years because of the freezing of tenure. As we know, the last increase took place in 2008, since then, the salary has been frozen. As a result, however, many military families are in an extremely difficult situation. The Parliament's almost unanimous decision to increase the remuneration of soldiers alleviates this unworthy situation which has lasted for many years. We are pleased that the government has finally heard the criticism of the extremely low level of salary and has eased the difficult living conditions of soldiers today. We must not forget that the wage development of defence workers is both timely and rather desirable, and this must also be dealt with by the government in a short time. For it is only the merit of our soldiers and defence workers who wish to do so for their country and citizens that, despite the dangerously ageing assets and the deteriorating operating conditions of the year, the Hungarian Defence Office has successfully completed its tasks in recent years. However, the current conditions have become unsustainable, and the technical modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Office cannot be neglected or postponed in addition to the salary increase. It is time for the sound of the need for improvements to finally be followed by action on the part of the government. In our increasingly dangerous world from a military point of view, the establishment and maintenance of modern and well-equipped forces is not a luxury, but one of the most fundamental national interests. It would be good for the government to consider, in the future, that the matter of defence must finally be a national matter. We thank the Hungarian Defence Corps for their endurance and dedication, and we wish you strength and health for further service. Thank you.
u2015-05-26-379	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech after the agenda. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-05-26-380	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We would like to tell you now about the fate of the primary school on Neptune Street at this late hour, which began this year on April 24th, with the school's management receiving a letter about the termination of the primary school on Neptun Street, and it will be melted into the surrounding schools, and the children will be relocated there. So this letter was sent to the management of the primary school on Neptun Street, and, in a very brief summary, the sender wrote only why it was necessary: because, only. The only professional argument sounded, then and later, in other forums, that the use of the building is low, so few people go to school. It is a small flaw that, later on, no secretary of state himself knew that there was a difference between the so-called actual number and the calculated number of persons in a school. The fact is that there are a high number of children with special educational needs in this school, who are counted twice or three times the number of children. Why do these kids come here? Because they receive a lot of professional help and have excellent results for teachers. This is clearly confirmed by parents' reports, and the real results that these partially impaired children can produce in connection with various competitions. But in any case, this very serious professional work is now over. Why? That's because I need the property. Our fellow Member Tamás László, I am very sorry that he is not here, and I am also very sorry that there is not a single Fidesz representative who can get the news of this speech to him, but I hope that our fellow Member will find out from the record; so he was the one who concluded the shop with the local Chinese community in connection with the school building. And before anyone gets the wrong idea, I don't want to speak against the Chinese community, but rather against corrupt politicians or impressionable public figures. But the fact is, it's the 15th. In the district where the school is, the Chinese's business interest has always played a prominent role in the decision-making of the Fidesz people. And how does that work? By using their political relationships, and then only the CLIK, as a preparation for professional decision-making, remained a visual element, who slavishly met the expectations of business circles. And the mandatory formality that, in the end, Minister Zoltán Balog makes his decision can only be reduced to such a spectacle. Teachers and parents have made many substantial professional suggestions, and no response will be received. Otherwise, the community cooperation shown by teachers and parents is very exemplary; dozens of forums, demonstrations and events have been organised in recent years. Dear House, Ultimately, the decision has not yet been made, as we have heard. So we can't talk about an irrevocable decision yet. There are three more days until the deadline is over, so there's still time to rethink anything. [[0.20]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that the school building is normally part of national property, which means you can't stock stock, play it to your friends or even pawn it. The momentum Fidesz represents on this issue reminds me of the story in the book Bujdosó, when the Red Terror was raging in 1919, and the Communists decided on the fate of the Holy Crown, they said that it was in the way, they do not understand, they do not feel the significance of what to do with it - it must be sold, pawned with it. Well, dear Fidesz, keep going on the Lenin road. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-381	Dear Parliament, Congressman Ander Balázs applied for a post-meeting speech. You have five minutes, please.
u2015-05-26-382	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Jobbinger, LMP and an independent fellow Member of the Council. Unfortunately, no Fidesz and MSZP Members are present in this Chamber. It's true it's too late, but I'm still sorry they're not here - I know it's better to rest. I would like to point out in advance that Jobbik has never been an enemy of railway or road development. We're not your enemies if the tenders are not a pre-defatted fiefal stall. We are not your enemies if the construction works focus on domestic businesses where employees are not kept for nothing. We are not enemies, if some do not have fabulous wealth, but society does have a price-expensive cartel. And we are not his enemies if investors try to minimize the inconveniences of the affected population during reconstruction with some empathy and logistical attention. Besides, we're not your enemies unless it's about the Patymkin Patymkin transfers like Castle Garden Bazaar. In my speech, I would like to draw attention indirectly to the maladministration of the transport organisation of projects involving the entire region of North-East Somogy and directly Balatonvilágos and Siófok, which the government otherwise uses as a positive reference. The village of Balatonvilágos is completely paralyzed by the recent renovation, during which, of course, during the season - as is a good domestic custom - the accessibility of the coastal part will be drastically difficult. It will be possible to approach the beach and the hotels by a 4-5 kilometer detour, only to a Salt Lake, which is likely to make its transport difficult. In addition, renovating the asphalt road used by three quarters of people will lead to an accident-threatening situation, to which the municipality has drawn the precious attention of the National Infrastructure Developer, to which nothing else came except a cynical response. There is another exit through the closed Club Aliga, but due to the entry procedure, the traffic of the main road before Club Aliga will be clogged at peak hours. What seems inevitable just because the renovation of the internal structure of the nearby rail bridge, coupled with a forced half-track closure, was also timed for the main season, and this will make the transport of train replacement buses impossible and the lives of those living there miserable. If NIF Zrt. refuse to inform the municipality of the exact scenario, then please do so by the competent ministry. And perhaps the most poetic question: does anyone compensate the municipality, the people who live there, for the loss of tourism revenues? The other issue is the issue of the Siófok railway section, which has been renovated since October. The only bridge of Siófok's most frequented coastal areas north of Siófok railway is the Baross Bridge, whose western exit leads to the roundabout of Vitorlás Street, with only one bump, namely that the railway passage of Vitorlás Street was under tunnel modification. The need to build the underpass itself, according to some experts, is highly questionable, this passage served Siófok's sailing port, but given the height of the capitalous sailboats during transport, up to four metres, it is questionable whether the underpass can accommodate such shipments at all. Although the completed tunnel was supposed to perform well during the weekend's test run, there was no reason to mention that the construction had been associated with the paralysis of Baross Bridge traffic several times. Thus, those who wish to cross the channel were forced to go several kilometres bypass, and when three or four passageways were closed at the same time, these bypasses could have caused a detour of up to 18 kilometers. Sometimes a person using a limited electric three - wheel scooter did not get to a doctor, as the battery of the device died due to the bypass. The problem of passageways and bridge is an integral part of whether both ambulances and firefighters are located in the fire department in the southeast part of the village, starting from here, and in the event of an urgent alert, people's lives may depend on whether they can reach the coastal lane at all. I ask what kind of solution is planned to solve the complex transport problem that the mayor of Kereki and our excellent local government representative from Balatonvilágos have sent us. Can the population hope, can vacationers hope to learn from mistakes [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And there won't be any trouble like this anywhere else? Please consider the Balaton beach in Somogy not only as a milk cow, but also as a partner. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-383	Congressman István Ikotity is next, please.
u2015-05-26-384	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak with you about the protection of health workers working in clinics, clinics and clinics. These institutions heal and serve as practical workshops for medical universities at the same time. Traditionally, they offer the highest standard of therapy, while providing traineeships for young doctors who graduate from the university, and are also an important base for the development of medicine. This area has also been caught up in the destruction of the government, the thoughtless, hasty, everything reorganization fever. Clinics working with universities are in a particularly unfortunate situation: they are both affected by the government's health and higher education policy, even though either one of them is a very serious blow. The lack of resources and lack of money in clinics are no better than in general health institutions, but they are now facing thousands of layoffs by the end of the year due to university reform. The professional level of healing is at risk, and there is not enough room for future health professionals to get internships. Yeah, that's what the university chancellor's failed system brings to the Hungarian clinics. Chancellors who have arrived at medical higher education institutions obviously care about money in the first place, as do other universities. After their appointment, they were surprised to find that maintaining clinics is not cheap. Where world-class medicine and world-class educational and scientific work are also carried out, even the printed Hungarian salaries bring together a significant amount of wages. And how do the chancellors react to that? Disarmaments are planned immediately so that they can achieve the targets set, ignoring the scientific, educational and healing aspects. Therefore, workers who are already overworked must be sent away today, causing even greater overload to those who remain there. However, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and caregivers are the last thing they can do about how a university manages, yet they are victims of the higher education spree of the Ministry of Humanities. It is increasingly difficult for students of medical and health education to find a practical place. Even though they go to a university where there would be a clinic if they couldn't receive them there, fewer and fewer healthcare workers are already taking practical training. This is no wonder: they should train trainees in the care of 30-40 patients and work with university administration for humiliating salaries, of course. But where will health professionals of the future get the necessary practical experience? It doesn't matter to the chancellors and the government how many active workers there are in that department. It doesn't matter whether the number is sufficient for the care of the patients, and it happens that someone in a department is already completely alone in a given job, and often for up to six or seven months is on duty every weekday and Saturday. But of course, he is also affected by the downsizing, because such small things the government's appointees don't care about. And as professional aspects are forgotten, so does the patient's interest in this logic. In addition to dismissals, stopping purchases, lack of tools and medications are a gamble that goes to people. [[0.30]] The chancellor system should be withdrawn as it is, but you have, on the other hand, invented and introduced the consistors granted veto rights in finance as yet another punishment. Most of the members of these bodies are appointed by the Minister; they necessarily do not look at the aspects of people and healing or education, but follow only the logic of austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time, the ruling party issued a referendum against the 300 HUF visitation fee in opposition, only to threaten people's recovery, the future of health professions and the functioning of the institutional system with brutal restrictions. At the same time, the clinics are hit by Fidesz's higher education and health spree, but this sector will certainly not be able to handle it. We're waiting for immediate steps to keep the clinics operational. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-385	Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, please.
u2015-05-26-386	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I too have to start with regret, I am very sorry that Minister Fazekas was still present in the Chamber 20 minutes after midnight and did not wait for my speech after the agenda, which begins 30 minutes after midnight and concerns him. In the early afternoon, Minister Fazekas was not so fortunate, because at that time I had interpelled him on this subject, and he could not get out of his obligation in this way, and he had to answer, but I trust that at least I will get answers in writing to the questions I have asked here after the agenda. As I pointed out, in my interpellation today, I was dealing with Kishantos' case. In short, there are so many who may not have heard that there was a model economy on the border with Kishantos, which was famous and valuable at European level. They came from Western European states to study, study, and really were an excellent institution, which was now well-functioning for more than two decades, which mostly worked on state land. With a noble simplicity, the current government took this state land away from the economy and rented it to kissers close to the government. What happened here in practice? It was more than 400 hectares of special certified land on which this sample farm was farming. By practically shredding, destroying and destroying this, the government only suffered damage of HUF 117 million for the crop in it. On 12 May, or a few weeks ago, a court ruling was issued that stated that both the Ministry lied in its communication and by Secretary of State Bitay when he formulated his claims on the economy. But those were not just any allegations. They used them to try to justify why the government felt justified in destroying this nonprofit cft. from the face of the earth. And from here on out, I believe that if the arguments failed, then what they did with this destruction was completely incomprehensible and indefensible. It is not only that this year's work has been wasted for this nonprofit, and those new research results are not coming in for this very reason, but it is also a matter of the fact that these two decades of work are practically ruined, unnecessary, we have to start all over again, even if in the end it comes out that they might be able to get the land back. However, we cannot see many chances of this, because the Minister repeated in his reply to my today's interpellation the lies which the court had already told that they were lies, and on the other hand he kept saying that it did not matter what judgments were made in these matters, since land use itself was not affected, and that it was taken by the state and given to others. Well, unfortunately, in this legal sense, you may be right, Minister, but what we find unacceptable is that, in the past, two-thirds power has given us legislation that has created the current corrupt, opaque tender system, because if we accept this, then we could also accept what the government is doing all over the country, that it doesn't give state land to people, who are otherwise referred to at the level of communication and property policy, i.e. small and medium-sized family farms living on the ground. In this case, neither did Kishantos's state take away state land from this nonprofit organization and, let's say, would have brought the local family farmers to the ground, but most of the land was given to people who didn't live locally and didn't deal with farming before, but have excellent government relations. It was also rather outrageous in the afternoon's ministerial response when he accused me and Jobbik of supporting some sort of Balliberal organization or of taking sides with such a party. It's really not that. The fact that there were people operating the model economy in Kishantos who tried themselves in NGOs or perhaps in political parties has nothing to do with me, and I do not want to give an opinion on it. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is working with a fairly clear political programme and objectives, which is not what we wanted to represent here or what we wanted to stand for, but only in addition to the fact that such a well-functioning model economy, which is exemplary at European level, should not be destroyed solely because of the desire for revenge and only because of the greed to gain power and the land, and I believe that this is unacceptable in the middle of Europe. I hope, unlike this afternoon, that Minister will give me a meaningful answer, if nothing else, in writing. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-26-387	Ready, Congressman Zoltan, independent, please.
u2015-05-26-388	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, - all five of them in this room. We live in New Babel, the infernal confusion of concepts. Disgraceful liars have corrupted the honor of words. For a long time, the words of Frigyes Karinthy have not been as painfully true as they are today. When I was elected as a Member, I vowed that I would also work to ensure that words finally regain their meaning in Hungarian politics. One of the greatest losses in recent years is that you have made your language completely contrary to reality, invented to deny and conceal it. This is the language of the Orbán system today, ladies and gentlemen. In this language, state corruption is not a sin, but a natural daily routine of oligarchs called national capitalists. In this language, the problems of the poor do not exist, and even the poor themselves do not exist very much, just as in the Kádár system. In this language, obscene wealth is not the subject of the prosecution, but only the healthy pursuits of talented young people. In this language, European values and the desertion of our allies are not irresponsible political adventures for the sake of suspicious eastern despots, but proudly undertaken Eastern opening. In this language, there is no mention of waiting lists for several months in hospitals and vegetation hospitals, while the term "covered sports facilities" is prescribed for a terrible waste of stadiums. In this language, whether it be tame or harsh criticism, it is treason, conspiracy, and national debauchery, for they have appointed themselves infallible to the nation, even though they no longer represent a fifth of it. And the migration of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians to the West in this language is not a serious blow to Hungarian society, the economy and the future, but the habitation of Europe. However, if they turned on today's Hungary for a moment instead of the joke channel called "public TV," they would realize that the Prime Minister is exposing reality with false questions. After all, you know that incitement to the death penalty drawn out of nowhere or to the decline of the West, which you think is almost exclusively a transit country, is a diversion. This is not the real problem, but the mass emigration of Hungarian young people and middle-aged people. Mr. Prime Minister, Over the past year, hundreds of thousands of people have voted with their feet to see whether or not they see a future at home. And even though the exodus has already begun under your predecessors, it has only become mass-sized in recent years. You recently remembered at a history-painting conference that in 1984 you thought about coming home in Vienna. 30 years have passed, and we are beginning to think that anyone who has the opportunity is going almost without thinking, and while you are often accused of not paying attention to the West - which is an exaggeration, of course, because London has become the second largest Hungarian city under your regency - it is now rare to recall the concern expressed during socialist governments that we do not raise our children so that we can talk to them only on the Internet later, from a distance of thousands of kilometres. But is that really possible? Is it possible that in your language hundreds of thousands of Hungarian energies, creative moods, dreams, talents, mister's pardons, taxes do Hungary miss terribly? You don't miss their vote, that's understandable, and maybe that's why it's not so easy for them to live with it. But let's put politics aside, because this is the truly burning national issue. Only in Veszprém there are hundreds of health workers missing. One of the main complaints of the settlements in the vicinity of Veszprém is that young people go abroad because there is no livelihood at home. [[0.40]] If you are read the surveys on the Internet about why all those people left and left, you will understand that it is not just the material ones who make decisions that are often lifelong. The Orbán government does not attach any importance to this serious national loss, even though migration of a worrying size and structure is a very threatening phenomenon. It is time for us to put on the agenda with this and other questions that do not exist in your language, but real ones. We should start with why so many of our countrymen have left. Then let's continue with how we can get them home. That's not gonna work with stupid communications campaigns. Let this be a real national consultation, not manipulated questions. This new exodus should be dealt with instead of second-class fresh ideological products such as Sunday shopping bans. The Hungarian family association is not hindered by the opening of the shop on Sunday, but by the leaving of the children. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-05-26-389	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 10:41 p.m.]]
