u2015-09-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Day 1 of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome our dear guests and everyone who is monitoring our work and, at the same time, thank you for the patience of my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before today's agenda: a report on the measures required by mass immigration. I give the floor to Prime Minister.
u2015-09-21-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the autumn session, I asked for the floor to report on the events of the past period. The issue of illegal immigration has broken into our lives with such force that I must now report this, which is what I must report to this House. Before I do my report, on behalf of the whole country and all Hungarian people, I thank the police and soldiers who serve at our borders. They are disciplined, humane, determined, or exemplary. Thank you for your service to our country. Ladies and Gentlemen, With regard to illegal immigration, I will talk about what the Hungarian government sees as the nature of the problem. I must, as a matter of necessity, address the question of why we are debating with the European Union. I will talk about what we have done so far, I mean what we have done so far to curb immigration in order to protect Hungary and Europe's borders. Finally, I have to talk about what awaits us in the coming months. Ladies and Gentlemen, The problem, simply naming the child, is mass migration. Immigrants don't just bang anymore, they're coming at us. Not a few hundred, not a few thousand, but hundreds of thousands and even millions of immigrants are besieging the borders of Hungary and Europe. You can't see where it ends. The supplies are abundant, millions are preparing for the journey. Without the need for completeness: Iraq - this is a country of 33 million. Today, 8 million people need humanitarian aid, or 8 million people only do so and only do so. According to our predictions, their number will increase from 8 to 10 million by the end of the year. And out of this 8 million, we can now see 4 million as an internal refugee. Syria: four years of civil war, 12 million humanitarian aid, 7.6 million internal refugees, 4 million of whom have already been forced into neighbouring countries. They live in refugee camps today. Afghanistan: 950,000 refugees in Iran, 1.5 million refugees in Pakistan. There's a civil war going on in Libya. In Eritrea, internal riots are constant. Mali's got a domestic war situation. The situation in Somalia is half civil war. If we sum up sub-Saharan quantities, population and war situation, we can say that there are 12.5 million internal refugees in the sub-Saharan region. That's the brief status report. The North African line of defense collapsed, the Arab spring caused chaos. The institutions of representative democracy, which we consider to be the sole saving state by the West, are inoperative where there is no will to do so. In addition, the European Union is weak. It was clear from the beginning of the year that this was not going to end well. Anyone who had eyes for vision could see that the migratory pressure was increasing. More and more were on the road. The smugglers practically built their routes with official assistance. Europe didn't just leave doors and windows wide open, it even sent invitations to immigrants. Ladies and Gentlemen, In our opinion, the most natural thing in the world is to protect your family. That's what we're doing right now. Hungary has been an esteemed member of the great European family for a thousand years. It is our historic and moral duty to protect Europe, thus protecting ourselves. The same is true the other way around: when we defend Hungary's borders, we also protect Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thanks to the mass media and the Internet, it has become clear to everyone that Europe is rich but weak. It's the most dangerous combination possible. From their own point of view, it seems perfectly reasonable that those who live in difficult circumstances go to a rich but weak world region to share in the good life there, in this case. We understand that. We understand that many of them are torn away from countries that are also cruel to their own people, where the economy has collapsed, where unemployment has gone to historical heights. You immigrants are victims of bad political decisions. The world has actually turned its back on these people. He turned his back on states in which human dignity is not respected or even demeaned daily. We understand and understand all this. However, it is clear from simple mathematical calculations that Europe is not able to take on all the world's problems. We can't support all the economic immigrants. With minimal economic knowledge, and based on our experience so far, we also know that we cannot give work to everyone. Plus, I don't even know if they all want to work. However, I would consider that some people are not satisfied with Austria and are about to flee to Germany. And I would also consider the scene where immigrants in Germany protest because they want to go to Sweden, aggravated by a series of serious lawlessness. [[12.30]] The situation is that a Europe that requires half a billion European citizens to respect the law day by day is incapable of getting hundreds of thousands of immigrants to register in a simple way. Brussels policy and major powers have made the situation worse when they have not been able to seize the root of the problem and consider it a refugee who is, in fact, an illegal economic immigrant. This is how we got to the point where our borders are in danger, our way of life based on respect for the law is in danger, Hungary and Europe as a whole are in danger. What's happening right now is an invasion, they're actually storming us. It is a daily experience in Europe that people who are being invaded cannot take in. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Why are we arguing with Europe? You can see that we have two fronts to fight. We must defend the borders of Hungary and Europe, but we must also fight the short-sighted European policy that has been opposed to the will of the European people. I see that many of you are unwilling to perceive the danger in your own or in your own full weight. First of all, they identify mass migration not as a threat, not as a problem, but as an opportunity to rejoice. We can still understand the European Left: it is indeed an opportunity for them to loosen up the national state framework by mass immigration and fulfil their historic goal, the eradication of nations. It is no coincidence that we Hungarians are being insulted in rotation because we stand up for our thousand years of statehood, the sovereignty of our country and our national independence. We've been getting used to this since 2010. But it is not just the left that acts in this way, and we find people in the full political picture who, by their behaviour, even encourage immigrants who have left their home country to take the path to Europe by risking their lives in the hope of a better life. The consequences are disastrous for them, for us and for Europe. Since Europe cannot defend its own external borders, new internal borders will be concluded in Europe, whose one of the most important achievements is the free movement of goods and persons, which is commonly referred to as Schengen. We are therefore in a debate with Brussels. We identify something else as a problem, we consider other means to be useful, we identify the consequences differently, we think differently about what will happen if we take action or do not take action. What is certain is that we need to rethink a series of European achievements, treaties and institutions. But until then, we can't just sit here and do nothing. Until Europe is able to act with one voice, individual nation states will be forced to defend themselves against this brutal threat in a difficult fight beyond their strength, making serious sacrifices. Ladies and Gentlemen, We've done everything we can legally. We're still going to be overpowering. I think that's what people expect of us. More than one million Hungarian citizens have expressed their views on the issue of immigration. The detailed results of the national consultation can now be read by everyone and published on the Internet. More than 80 percent of Hungarians believe that Brussels' failed immigration policy has failed and the rules need to be tightened up. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian people have decided, the country must be protected. Every step the Hungarian Government has taken so far and every measure it will take can be derived from this commanding duty. In 2010 there are two kinds of political trends in Hungary: the one that wants to protect Hungary, the Hungarian people, to preserve our national culture and Europeanity, and there is one that works against it for some reason. Ladies and Gentlemen, We didn't build and build the technical barrier hundreds of miles long. We did not invite this House to an extraordinary meeting earlier in order to create, by amending the laws, a legislative state that gives us the opportunity to curb migration and to protect Hungarian citizens and their families. We are not using our own solutions out of eccentricity, but simply trying to comply with our contractual obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, What's to be expected? Please, no one thinks the problem will just go away overnight. Please don't let anyone shake yourself into the illusion that the government measures taken will contain, in themselves, the flow of people that keeps Europe under pressure. Instead, let us prepare ourselves for a long struggle. On behalf of the government, I can assure you that we will do everything we can to protect Hungary, the borders of Hungary and the Hungarian people. We're holding on, and we're not gonna let that happen. But until there is a single European action plan, the problem cannot be solved. We can handle it under national jurisdiction, but we can't handle it. We have a solution that can lead our countries to a functioning pan-European action plan. It's simple, logical and common sense-driven solutions. If, for example, our Greek friends cannot defend the borders of Europe or the Schengen area, then we must protect them instead, all 28 Member States can take their part in protecting Europe's southern borders. In the same way, it is clear that instead of drawing the problem to the heart of Europe, we need to act at the focal point, at the source region, and therefore the refugee camps, whatever they are called, must be set up not within the European Union but outside it. Let us help countries that have already planted millions of war refugees in order to provide humane conditions for people who do not want to come to Europe, but want to return home after the end of the war. The type of proposals, such as the quota system, concern only the consequences, not the elimination of the causes. This is not a European action plan. The basic philosophy of the quota system does not aim to prevent more economic immigrants from coming to Europe or to protect Europe and the European way of life, but rather to spread the problem apart, I take it from the silent recognition that immigrants who have entered Europe illegally do not want to go home. [[12.40]] We Hungarians say that in Brussels, they sit on the other side of the horse. We suggest that we first prevent migration, then after protecting our borders, then talk about what to do with those who came here, or want to get here. In any case, we have to get them to respect the law. We must make it clear to everyone that Europe is a Europe of clear rules for living together here. The rule of law in Europe does not mean oppression, but protection and security. We also have to say that everyone here has worked hard to live in peace and security. People have worked for it separately, and together, national communities have worked for it. Here it is not a right to be well-being; it is a right to work for prosperity here in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I ask you to support the Hungarian Government in the fight against mass immigration, regardless of party affiliation, because there is only one country, and it is our duty to protect it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-2	Dear House, The Prime Minister's speech did not exceed 20 minutes, so the factions have 5-5 minutes to reply. I am asking if you wish to respond to the Prime Minister's speech. I give the floor to Andras Schiffer. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, What we agree on is that a global crisis has reached Hungary's borders, which is why there is no nation-state solution, which is precisely why a country cannot unilaterally crush international law. We also agree that in recent weeks, unfair slanders have also been found on the part of the Chancellor of Vienna; not you, but Hungary, have been insulted. And we agree that a country should be able to control who crosses the border and not allow tens of thousands to cross the country uncontrollably and untraceably. However, the protection of common European borders cannot be done alone. At present, however, while we are sitting here, it is possible that the ambassadors accredited to Hungary may be assigned serial numbers at Bem Square to receive protest lists. This isn't gonna work! Mr. Prime Minister, What has been consistent for you over the last few weeks, months, is the perfect inconsistencies. I am thinking here that two days ago, Hungary was told to comply with international rules alone, and it is now possible to go through Hungary without registration. And we can go on; you waited for the miracle from the fence a few days ago, and it turned out that the fence had to be built further. Mr. Prime Minister, You were well aware of the danger in February, and for months they had practically nothing to do with it. Forints 2 billion were abducted into a poster campaign instead of informing asylum seekers from these HUF 2 billion to Hungary with honor. This could have prevented chaos. Maybe that wasn't your goal. For example, that 2 billion forint is missing from the police's pockets for overtime money. You expected the poster campaign to hold back the pressure; it didn't work. You announced in Tusnádfürdő that the fence will stand until 31 August and the pressure will decrease; it didn't work. Mr. Prime Minister, It is possible to argue about who and how many actual refugees have been knocking on the Hungarian borders in the last few weeks, but to prank these people, to deny them honest information, even to disinformed them, to deprive them of the fair procedure, the use of the mother tongue, to deny humane treatment in many cases of people who have been seriously traumatized is simply inhumane. Pope Francis said that migrants are victims of inequality, wars, persecution, they should not be held responsible. Mr. Prime Minister, Immediate assistance cannot be confused with long-term integration for anyone, which is clearly - and there is no debate between us - the capacities of Hungary and Europe are finite. In recent weeks, those who have spoken of hordes and refused immediate assistance have introduced a social culture that our own vulnerable countrymen will slowly lose. Mr. Prime Minister, Even in 2007, you said that we do not consider the path that every nation state is on its own with regard to immigration policy. Mr. Prime Minister, The separate path, the specific measures taken, the lack of European solidarity, leads precisely to the petty behaviour that we have seen on Croatia's part in recent days. How do you respond to what happens if everyone in the chain of one-sided steps builds fences? Is the pressure dropping at the Hungarian borders? How do you respond if the Austrians and the Germans push back the asylum seekers you registered here? Mr. Prime Minister, It is not a quota in itself, but a single European procedure, a single institutional system and a financial basis. And, yes, you are right, at the same time - not before this, at the same time - the reasons must be dealt with. Joint European diplomatic action is needed to designate safe third countries, to renegotiate return agreements, to assist Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and to take the necessary diplomatic steps towards Pakistan and Bangladesh. Indeed, it is in all our interests that everyone on this planet can live a life worthy of man in their own homeland, but then we must face the causes. The reason is global exploitation, the reason you do not speak of or even participate in this reason when your policy also means the extreme exploitation of the Hungarian workforce, when your policy also involves the tragic suppression of Hungarian wages. You are part of the cause, and the causes are not eliminated, but enhanced. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-4	I don't see any more candidates - but I do see them. It was just enough to talk about the intention of closing the debate, and my fellow Members are already pressing the button. Thank you very much. Gábor Vona is next.
u2015-09-21-5	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr President, Dear Parliament, My first sentence will also be about thanks. On behalf of Jobbik, I would like to thank the police who have been working hard to protect Hungary's borders. I said it in early September, and I must start now by saying that the current situation, this crisis, this migrant crisis is testing Hungarian internal politics and everyone can show their sense of responsibility, their true face in this situation. It is a kind of test situation that we are facing here, and the speeches that have been and will be made here show everyone their political position on this issue, so I would like to clarify Jobbik's political position for everyone. Jobbik is today the strongest opposition party in Hungary. In 2018, Jobbik will be the clear challenger of Fidesz, and we will replace your government. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] In the meantime, we will be ruthlessly critical of you in relation to the corruption that is flooding the whole country and the political arrogance that has emerged from everywhere, but in this situation and on this issue, Jobbik is able to distinguish between a party political issue and a national issue, which is responsible for the opposition party preparing for government. And this is a national matter. And in a national case, a responsible party can do one thing: put aside its party policy considerations and try to play its part in national cooperation. That is why I find the Left's attitude to this issue to be outrageous, and in particular the movement of the left's spiritual and political leader Ferenc Gyurcsány, especially in Röszkén, which - I am sorry, but - I cannot judge other than that it is a net treason that Ferenc Gyurcsány committed in Röszkén. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] I agree with Prime Minister that we must settle for a long-term fight, and, of course, let us hope that there will be a pan-European solution to protect Europe, including the Member States, but I think that we should not build on this hope, on this faith, on the security of Hungary. I predict that Hungary will still have to protect itself in the future. I do not see that Europe is able to achieve a uniform and effective solution in the medium term. [[12.50]] After October, perhaps a winter break on the issue of Hungarian internal politics and the Hungarian migrant crisis will come. But this winter break will not serve - I mean that the pressure on Hungary's borders will decrease after October - to sit back, but to use this winter break, if possible, as we hope, to carry out the necessary tasks. These, according to Jobbik, are the following, and I recommend this to the attention of the Government and the Prime Minister. We believe that the fence, the technical border lock, must be built on all sections of the border. In this, I see that we agree, in the form that it is the strongest, and that it can provide the most effective protection. But we also agree, perhaps now, on the events of the last few weeks and months, that the technical border lock without human resources is unfit to protect borders, so it is also necessary to try to solve the issue of human resources. In this regard, one of our proposals is to ask the government not to reject this from the hip: to reinstate the border guard. It is not good that there are police and soldiers on the Hungarian border. If history has shaped this and we have to settle for it in the long run, then let us try to create a separate authority or body to do so. And if we are already creating it, let us also think about moving civil power in Hungarian society and helping this future border guard. Let us try to involve civil energy in the protection of our borders, under the control, control and control of the authorities, within the framework of the law. In this, I ask that, if we can, we begin professional discussions with the Government, Mr. Minister of the Interior, Prime Minister. We also consider it important to bring our countrymen home from wars that indirectly contribute to these people fleeing their country today. Besides, soldiers seem to be needed in the future at home rather than in Mali, Somalia or other countries. In addition to the voluntary reserve of operations, it is also worth thinking about, and I can't say a better word about the introduction of the voluntary military service. I stress that, before the Balliberal side goes wild here, I am not talking about compulsory military service, but that Hungarian citizens who wish to acquire basic defence knowledge should provide the Hungarian state with state infrastructure for this. I'm not talking about the voluntary operational reserve system, because not everyone can do it, but let's create a third level. I'm asking the government to consider that, too, if you see any fantasies. As far as international space is concerned, the government has so far expressed its views on the quota system. I am concerned that, at European pressure, this firmness will be broken. The introduction of the quota system must be prevented in all ways, both now and in the future. I think that if this does not happen, there is one possibility, a referendum must be held in Hungary or even at European Union level, but the implementation of the quota system must be prevented. Because, as Prime Minister said, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian society does not ask for migrants. And if Europe forces us to do so, we must reject it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-6	The Christian Democratic People's Party will be represented by Miklós Soltész. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, Hungary, the Hungarian parties and the Hungarian parliamentary parties are experiencing one of the most difficult periods of democracy in the last 25 years. Therefore, it does not matter how some parties think, how their politicians speak, and not only how they think, but what they do after all. What is theirs, what is it for the sake of the country, or what is against it. Many try to suggest solutions, seek solutions, many with good intentions, and many with mad intentions. I have to say that the government and the Fidesz-KDNP party association, as much as they try to deny it, have recognised the opportunity to warn not only the Hungarian people in time, but also the whole of Europe of the danger that is already at our disposal and is already in our countries, throughout the European Union. We listened to the opinion of the Hungarians. András Schiffer says it was unnecessary - a real Democrat. As a result, we were able to prepare, and here we have to stress, that government agencies were able to prepare, and that humanitarian organisations could also prepare themselves to provide assistance day by day to the people who really need it, and to those Hungarian people who fear it, their fear is completely understandable and justified. What must be stressed is that we are in the interest of the Hungarian people. But in addition to representing the Hungarian people, 10 million people, and I can say those from beyond the border, if we think of the Southerners in this case, there is also the humanity we serve. After all, among the people who come here, there really are patients, elderly people, children, mothers with children, we help them with solidarity. But let's see what the left-liberal parties do. We know their views. I think András Schiffer's sentences, his thoughts tell us everything. Dear Chief of Staff, They didn't knock on the door in this country. They kicked the door in. They didn't bang into this country, they want to take it. And if you don't notice that, unfortunately, your political foresight is zero. But if we just look at the left-wing parties and their predecessors over the last decades, let us say how they said about a St. Stephen's feast, they made us celebrate a constitutional celebration, and now suddenly remember the messages of St. Stephen's to St. Imre, all of a sudden they're sending from the Holy Scriptures and the Holy Father, while they're stomping on Christianity and the faithful people, as they did in the 50s, the 60s and the 70s earlier. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to support your views with a few quotes. Ágnes Kunhalmi, smiling anyway, said in June that this whole thing was a fake problem. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The Prime Minister said it at a meeting.]] , you don't have to deal with this...
u2015-09-21-8	I didn't say anything to Agnes Kunhalmi. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Excuse me, Mr. President.]]
u2015-09-21-9	Tamás Bellozó said that Hungary cannot provide 300 people as ten million countries? Are you aware, Your Honour, of how many people we are talking about? But there are two quotes that, I think, go beyond the limit. One was said by István Ujhelyi, who, together with his left-wing-liberal colleagues in Europe, confessed that the last time they saw such an inciting, xenophobic, exclusional attitude from a Nazi government was from government public money. And I see that Ferenc Gyurcsány is in the room. He had foresight in 2004 or 2005, when he closed OPNI. I'm sorry to say this, but your foresight was unnecessary. I mean, what you said after you attacked this country, then you lied to Röszke with premeditated intent, brutally and plannedly, most certainly by order of the Prime Minister, police attacked peaceful refugees, not vice versa, that's more than the situation of sanity. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, We, Christian Democrats, would like to thank professional bodies for the sacrifice that I myself have had, and I suppose hundreds of thousands of our countrymen have experienced. Thank you for the work of all the charitable and civil society organisations who have been involved in this huge task solution. I would add that we ourselves are asking the European Union, of course, our support is given that the problem must be solved at its roots, help must be given there, and all other solutions are surface treatment. The other issue is that this is what the country can do now, and this is very important. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2015-09-21-10	It is now up to the head of the MSZP Group, Member József Tobias. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-11	Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, It would be a great stimulus for you to put on the table the incompetence, chaos, tension that has occurred behind the government's measures for the past 8-9 months. I'm not doing it, you already said that at the faction meeting, so we'll have to deal with this after we solve the problem. I think that both Hungary and Europe must remain safe and what Hungary can do to this end. On 23rd, this week, at the EU summit in Brussels, the government would have the opportunity to represent Hungary with a strong European mandate. Listening to Mr Prime Minister, I ask that this message to the leaders of the European Union be removed from the agenda. After all, he contradicts what the Prime Minister said to himself and the statement made by Péter Szijjártó last week. If we take seriously what you have said, then it is a fact and a fact that the proposal for a resolution that we have tabled to Parliament today, and the Parliament refuses to negotiate about it, it is precisely about, Prime Minister, that there are decisions in which we must go beyond what has been the position of the current government, but also that of Hungary as a whole. [[13.00]] Dublin III, so to speak, is finished and cannot be maintained in order to maintain the burden on Europe's external borders by means of legislation. As I am convinced, there is an urgent need for common rules on asylum in the European Union. There is a need for common European rules for the return of both registration and funding, asylum seekers and asylum seekers, and for the return of those who are not entitled to asylum. The financial resources of the European Union should be extended not only to address the existing crisis, but also to protect our common borders in the European Union. Europe must, together, call for instruments and grants that help to create so-called registration points both in Greece and in Hungary to protect European common borders. [[An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Those refugee camps... I hear them saying it's none of our business. Then it is necessary to decide whether Europeans are or not; if they are not European and do not know the common border of Europe alone - and they do not seem to be able to - they are asking for help. If the request for assistance is that police and military support from EU Member States ensures that all citizens who want to arrive in Europe through Hungary, through it, are registered, then all assistance must be accepted and provided until a common asylum system is in place so that people who are entitled to asylum and protection can reach where they want to be. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not like that! It's not like that, Comrade Stalin. Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] A confrontative and stressful policy cannot be tackled in the long term with this challenge, honourable Members. The basis of consensus, as we can see, is not what the government has done in recent weeks and months. We are diplomatically at a low point that has not been experienced since the change of regime. If someone wants to protect Europe, they should tell the Heads of State or prime ministers of neighbouring countries, because if they don't understand that, then there is a problem. If you don't understand, then there's a lack of consensus, no cooperation, no negotiation. I therefore urge the Government of Hungary to bring to Brussels a single action plan, a single support, support accepted by the majority of Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for telling me that all those who perform police and border police duties today in the Serbian-Hungarian common border section or now in the Croatian-Hungarian border section are entitled to honor and respect. It would be good if their supply conditions were to be in line with these beautiful thanks. Just as it would be good to thank those civilians and thank those people representing solidarity society [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who have shown another picture of Hungary in the world in your place in recent months. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-12	Finally, Antal Rogán, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in recent months, in the months since 1 January, illegal immigration has entered the everyday life of Hungary and even the Hungarian people. Since 1 January of this year, nearly 225,000 people have illegally crossed Hungary's borders. 225,000 illegal immigrants were faced by Hungarian citizens and Hungarian authorities. In this connection, I think that we should talk about incompetence and chaos, perhaps most of all, to those who said the following sentences even in June of this year, on 18 June: immigration is a false problem, which is not a real problem for Hungary. [[Zoltán Gőgös: That's what the Prime Minister said.]] This was used that day by several socialist politicians from Ágnes Kunhalmi through Csaba Horváth to national leaders; it seems that at that time it was a socialist sentence that you had come up with. On that day there were 73,000 illegal immigrants since 1 January in total, who crossed the Hungarian border. On the same day László Botka Szeged, mayor of the Hungarian city closest to the border, said that the population of the city was not disturbed by refugees at all [[Interview in the lines of the MSZP: We did.]] And, of course, he thought it was a fake problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I see, because since then, it seems, your position has been changed, because, of course, you have not had any suggestions for a false problem in the last few months, you have now worked out one that has been presented here today, I believe, for communication reasons, before this House; I am holding it in my hand. In this, as Mr Tobias said, you see the need to use European police and European soldiers to protect European borders, including the Hungarian borders. But if that is the case, I would like to ask you why you do not vote in Parliament for the authority that would allow Hungarian soldiers to defend the Hungarian border. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The European soldier and the European police officer, is that all right, the Hungarian police and the Hungarian soldier, do you no longer like that, fellow socialists? [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is your chance. I would like to ask you - because the vote will be in front of us in minutes - to vote for a two-thirds law extending the rights of the police and the defence, and to allow Hungarian soldiers to defend the Hungarian border, which, I think, is their constitutional duty and their duty in their oath. Ladies and gentlemen, But we are also going to vote today on the possibility of a legal border closure at the Croatian border, and we can also vote on a derogation from a house rule in a few minutes, which the President will put to the vote. If you think it is important to protect borders, then I would also ask that the proposal to supplement the legal border closure be supported by a derogation from the house rules before the Honourable Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I also listened with interest to Mr Schiffer's words and tried to put the proposal on the line of consistency, the consistency he represented, which was to provide tracking bracelets to all immigrants after 30 days. I have not been able to fit this consistency into any immigration policy line, and I am completely clueless on human rights issues. Human rights seems to have a dimension that's connected to the bracelet you know, but I and we don't know about this kind of space. [[Dr. András Schiffer: More like prison...]] So I'm asking you to shed some light on the real depths of this proposal next time. We have not yet been able to interpret it, so we have not been able to include it in our immigration policy framework. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, what is most needed here in this House is for us all to follow a national interest, to refer to who belongs to the party family, because I think - and we need to see this - that in recent months it may not have been a coincidence that it was the left-wing representatives and factions who took a pro-immigration line here in this House and in front of the Hungarian public opinion, and perhaps it was not a coincidence that the governments and leaders who criticized Hungary were almost all belonging to the Socialist International, from the Austrian Chancellor to the Croatian Prime Minister. [[Zoltán Pride: Angela Merkel. József Tobias: Angela Merkel? Secretary General of the United Nations?]] It seems, therefore, that this is less of a debate by European national or European nations, but rather it seems to be a debate by Socialist International. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to help resolve these problems and to vote on the proposals that really enable the protection of the Hungarian border, because let us be honest: we can only cope with this flood of migration if Europe says that it cannot accommodate everyone. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If we protect the borders and decide outside our borders who we take in and who we don't. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-14	If the Prime Minister wishes to make use of the possibility of rejoinder, I will give the floor.
u2015-09-21-15	Yes, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to comment because there have been some important, concrete issues that I would like to add to my own knowledge and knowledge so that the interested public and the relevant representatives can see the situation. First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Member Tobias, Mr Group Leader, that the international asylum treaties, which we are part of, clearly state that the refugee cannot choose the country to which he wants to flee. That's why the approach is to let him through, take him in, send him back and forth, completely incomprehensible comments. I would like to make it clear that, in the case of economic immigrants, the asylum rules are not taken into account at all, so that no one in the world has to take them in, unless they want to, no international law is forcing anyone to accept an economic immigrant. [[13.10]] In the case of real refugees, who are really fleeing because of humiliation or danger of life, the world gives them a safe place, but the refugee himself cannot say that I want to be a refugee in Germany, I want to be a refugee in Macedonia or in Hungary - he has no choice! This is happening, ladies and gentlemen, just as it happened in '56. Anyone who has fled will cooperate with the authorities of a country, say Austria, to enter a refugee camp where they will receive the security and care necessary for their existence, and will be waiting for the international quotas to be announced where they can go - in 56 Nicaragua offered the largest one for Hungary, by the way. [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] - and then they'll assess their request individually to see if they'll accept it. But about going to the world and telling me that Greece and even Turkey are not good for me - I'm sure life in Turkish refugee camp is not good for me, but it's safe - I'm not good for Greece, and then I'm going to Macedonia, but then I'm going to Serbia, but I'm not good for Serbia, and then I'm going to Hungary. Hungary? Well, that's not gonna happen. I want to get out of here. Austria? Well, I resent that. From Austria to Germany immediately. Aren't they giving supplies right away? Well, I'm going to Sweden. Well, that doesn't have anything to do with any international asylum agreement, so no one's gonna take it out on us. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Here comes the question raised by our fellow Member Schiffer. There are two different words mixed together here, and it is worth separating them from each other: solving the situation and dealing with the situation. It is important to make this distinction so that we can keep our thinking clean and determine what we can and cannot do. Therefore, Hungary cannot undertake to resolve the situation, i.e. to eliminate the flood of refugees or to eliminate the causes that are producing refugees. We can participate in an international action aimed at this, but we cannot solve it. What we can do is deal with it, because if we can't solve it, we're not willing to live with a problem under any circumstances. We are not willing that, while we know that we cannot solve the situation, we do not agree to the Hungarian laws in force being misplaced, people without registration, without identification, without the possibility of recognizing the Hungarian authorities, just go through the country or stay here and do whatever they want. That's impossible! So when we build a fence and tighten up the criminal code, we don't want to solve the problem, because we can't commit to it, but we choose a specific way of living together with a global problem. This is how we will live with this problem until the international community solves it. So the treatment and the solution are two different things. Not to solve the problem, but to deal with the problem, we have to undertake and even undertake to do so. It is our responsibility to the Hungarian people to find an acceptable way to live with this problem in accordance with Hungarian interests. I do not support it, I do not contribute to it, I will always fight against it, to stand up here as party leaders elected by the Hungarian people, to spread their hands, and they say, well, you see, there is no Hungarian solution to that; when the international community solves it, the situation will improve. You can't live with that. We need to establish an acceptable life frame to deal with it. This is what is happening right now, and we will meet this standard. That's what's gonna get us through to the fence. Why does the Hungarian government support the fence? That's because it works. Because it works. Check it out. The Serbian-Hungarian border is 175 km long, you can see the numbers. We had hoped earlier that, according to international experience, the number of illegal entries would fall to one sixth and one seventh. That's not what happened. He dropped much more. So, on the Serbian-Hungarian border, we can tell you that the fence - and then on the details of this - has something to say, which is a two-line line of defense, because it is not one, but two - so the two-line line of defense, so that behind it the police perform their service, and behind them there are military exercises, and we have a strict criminal code, so it was enough to prevent illegal entry into Hungary on 175 kilometers, using only the police. Not the entry, because this word is also said several times, this composition of words is the border seal, but we are not closing the border, but closing the green border. The borders are open at the designated points of entry, as they were before in normal life, and can be published in and out while respecting the existing international and Hungarian laws. But the green border has indeed been closed, and we have created a physical structure that can be protected. I don't want to deal with operational issues here, but everyone - if not everyone - but who was a soldier, for sure - can see that if I pull a line into the ground and want to protect it, I have no chance of doing that. There needs to be a physical barrier that can then be protected by force, so there must be some kind of physical barrier. Not only is it a communication trick that we are not saying a fence, but a border lock, but because we really need to create a physical barrier, which gives us an abstract fence, but it could be something else; now we need to control our imagination. However, this leads to the question that our fellow Member Schiffer has raised: if we say that the fence works and it works in Serbia, then what about the Croatian case? With the Croatian case, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot defend the two borders together, the Serb and the Croatian without the military. What you gave us as a space of motion was that we could use the police. You didn't give us permission to use the military. [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] so we can protect the Serbian section and we can protect the Croatian section, but we need the army (János Lázár: That's right!) So they can patrol with the police. If we are given the authority to use the military as well as the police, then we are able to protect both the Croatian and Slovenian border sections, but we need an approval to do so, but you have refused to do so. So let me say that those who refused to let our soldiers patrol with the police now say that we are not effective enough are hypocrites and Pharisees. This is not a fair political position. [[John Lazarus: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] My fellow Member Schiffer used a very important term here earlier - it is true that it is unfair and unfair, but it is still important; how many of these terms we have! - when he said that the Hungarian authorities refused, he refused to grant benefits to those who were in need. I would like this House to be able to see clearly on this matter as well. Hungary for all people arriving in our territory, even for those who enter illegally - even for those who enter illegally! - in refugee camps or in designated detention areas under the new Criminal Code, full care will be provided: you will receive medical care, you will receive shelter, you will receive food and drink. It's not possible for someone to say that I'm not willing to go in, even if I'm being taken to a refugee camp, a rally point, but I'm sitting here, and I'm telling you that I want to eat here, I want to drink here. That's impossible! No international treaty obliges us to sit down on the ground people who otherwise cross the border illegally and say that we demand care. On the other hand, it is expected from the Hungarian authorities, and I expect that all people who are willing to cooperate will go to the registration centre, register, receive medical care, cover, food and drink. You will receive this, you have already received it, and Hungary has fulfilled its obligations far beyond its obligations thanks to the Hungarian government's fulfilment of what it has to do, but the civilians and Hungarian civilians have gone above it. They said - I don't know what they could say, but they could have said - it's understandable that the Hungarian government has to maintain a order, so it gives care only where it has to do according to international law, but who is beyond that, because he refuses to cooperate - which can be an aspect in the state's mind, and I insist that we respect this aspect, it's a public, legal aspect - but the civilians said that their work should not be judged that way, that is not the standard of their work, and they gave it to those who refused to cooperate. It's a great thing. I think that Hungary's solidarity is above it, the solidarity part is far from what is required by international law and what can otherwise be expected of Hungary. I say it quietly, just between us, that we give civil society organisations significant financial support to do this work, which, by way of international law, would not be our duty, but we will do so. We make agreements with them, and they do this job. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] There are three other important things here. One of the things Jobbik suggested was what happened to return. [[13.20]] Now I suggest that we protect our borders for the first time, and then there will be a time when we can't avoid the big debate that has to do with return. 'Cause what's going on here? The fact is that these illegal immigrants first entered the territory of the Union with Greece; then, for the second time, in Hungary. They were not registered in Greece, but they were registered in Hungary. Therefore, there may be a pressure on us that, after being registered here for the first time, we have to take them back here, which we say is impossible, because it is an old, ancient principle that no one can rely on their own misconduct when it comes to obligations. Greece cannot rely on the fact that they entered in with him, but he is not registered, and therefore send them to Hungary. That's impossible! [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] This would be contrary to international law, principles of law and tradition. We will have to fight for this, there will be a big debate, not now, because the focus is on defence now, but we will have such a debate, where Hungary will have to represent this position very clearly. We can prove in many cases, in the majority of cases beyond the limits of common sense, outside the framework of common sense, that the people who came here had to come from Greece, unless they flew on their wings. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's the Greek debate. Winter break; I'd like us to stop rocking ourselves into illusions: there won't be. There will be no winter break in the case of refugees, illegal immigration, a global crisis. If you look at the figures, statistics and tables available to the public that show the temporal distribution of illegal immigrants, you will see about half of the total annual quantity arriving by the beginning of October and the other half from October to the end of December. Well, it's not a break, it's an increasing pressure. There is no reason to think that smugglers would organize routes differently this year than they did in previous years. And if those trends apply, then we must prepare for the opposite, not for the break, but for the strengthening current, the flooding and the mass of people. Many people here say that building a Hungarian fence is not a solution, because then everyone should build a fence. Of course, that's the solution. [[Dr. Sándor Pintér: That's right!]] To be even more modest, we signed an agreement. We call this the Schengen agreement. It's a common will, signed out of free will. It says that the protection of the border is the duty of the nation state. You can't choose if you like it, or if you can, or if you like it. It says it's your duty. And this Treaty also states that coming into the Schengen area, that is to say, the common European free zone, can only be at the geographical point and working hours designated by that State. So there's no such thing as infiltrating, not even at the point of entry, you can't travel day and night. There's a pattern. Now, in my opinion, if there is an agreement, there are two things that can be done: either everyone adheres to it or we amend it with a common will. No one's changed it yet. I can't even see the common will behind it. So it's an agreement that needs to be observed. If the Greeks kept it, we wouldn't be in trouble if we kept it, the Austrians weren't in trouble. If the Croats hadn't signed Schengen yet, they'd want to join. Now let's put this in parentheses for a moment, the reality of this, a unanimous decision, and after what happened here, we will find it difficult to collect in Parliament the necessary vote of support for Croatian entry, but this is also a later problem. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] So they also want to enter, and consequently they can rightly be expected to defend their own borders. It seems a little absurd, but when you think about it, it's not so absurd. Greece must have some means, if nothing else, to fence Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia... - and then the southern border system on land of the Schengen Free Zone, the European Union, is protected. Now a significant part of political leaders in the European Union defends with what we never defend here in Hungary, that this is a big task that cannot be solved. In my opinion, when we hear this kind of argument, it's actually a confession of a lack of government competence. We believe that this task can be solved. Today, at the heart of international debates, it is precisely whether we accept the opinion that is still the majority of European politicians' opinions; I do not say that it is a citizen, but its politicians, that we are facing a problem that cannot be defended or physically detained, so let us give ourselves to it. There's an opinion like that. And there's another opinion. This is what we stand for alone, which says that, yes, it is possible, we just need to gather our strength, our legal power, our material strength, our living strength and our political courage, and then we can defend the border. And if everyone defends their own borders, then Europe is protected. That is our position, and we want to stick to it. And finally, the introduction of the quota system as the second-to-last. Of course, Hungary opposes this system. There are two reasons for this. First of all, we believe that this is not what we need to talk about today, but about protecting borders. It is not necessary to send out quotas, but thousands of soldiers, if necessary, to send tens of thousands to the south, to countries where border protection is needed, and the nation state cannot solve it. There is no legal framework for this today. That's what we should be working on instead of running errands on quotas. But we have to face the following situation: in order to stop the quota system within the European Union's legislative system, because now this is a proposal, a legislative initiative, a qualified majority is needed. I don't have it today. Even all Visegrad countries together cannot stop the European Union from making a bad decision. This could happen, I mean, making the decision, making the wrong decision, even this week. And then it will be a law. And then - we are a Member State of the European Union - we will be bound by this. And then the Honourable Hungarian Parliament and the great committee dealing with European Union affairs must address one issue. I will be happy to present this there: what should we do if we consider a system to be wrong, fought it through, voted down, became legislation and enforced? What should be the Hungarian attitude here? We will have to discuss this issue. I'm asking the factions to prepare for this. And finally, one last and perhaps the most serious of the questions. Now we're talking about a fence, that police, that defence, we're talking about resources, quota and so on. But at the bottom of the whole case, as far as human eyes can be seen, so let's just say that to the very foundations of philosophy, we have to decide whether Europe wants to change or not to change. Is what's happening to Europe now a good thing or a bad thing? Today, the number of people who have arrived in the European Union is far above million. I have told you the numbers in national breakdown - Iraq, Syria, Libya, the sub-Saharan region - there are obviously millions of people on the road. The real problem is that there are those in Europe today, I don't know if they are in the majority, that among the leaders who say such things they are in the majority, this is certainly not the same as the European majority, who think that what is happening is a good thing that this is a great opportunity for their country to change. Now I don't name names, but great leaders of large countries say that this is a non-returning opportunity to change, and that's what they want. And I want to make it clear that you have the right to want this. So I think that every European nation state has the right to change of its own volition. The change is one of his rights if he wants to adopt a large number of Muslim communities, and he is not disturbed by the experience that we have not yet been able to integrate them - the Christian community in Europe - and that is why parallel societies are created in many European countries with deteriorating Christian and growing Muslim proportions. Some people think it's good. This may not surprise you on the left, but it surprises you here. Some people think it's good, some people think it's desirable, it's an opportunity. However, we, who at this moment represent Hungary's interests on the basis of the authority of the people, think that if it is good, if it is bad, we do not want it. And the question is, after all, whether Hungary has the right to say that we do not want to change cultural patterns at this rate, so quickly, along such logic. We don't want to know if we have the right. The question is not whether we are right, we will discuss it because some people say that this is not the right position - I think from the left - and we will say from the national and Christian side that this is not a good position. We think it is good for Hungary to maintain its cultural pattern. But that is not the question of what is right and what is wrong, but whether Hungary has the right to want this question to be decided by it. This leads us to see if any European nation state, including Hungary, has the right to decide who is allowed into its home country, with whom it wants to live and with whom it does not. [[13.30]] And the Hungarian position is so firm, if I may say so - I would not call it thick-neck, but I would call it a firm position - which makes it very clear on this issue: we do not consider a cultural change in our backs to be good for the Hungarian people with such rapid, violent experiences in Europe. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] To accept this, no one authorized us to do so, we were not entrusted by the Hungarian people to generate or tolerate such changes in Hungary. We have been entrusted with what is contained in the Hungarian Constitution and Hungarian legislation. This gives us the right to insist on not adopting a European policy that wants us to do it - by saying or unspeakingly forcing us to change and be what they are - during immigration or under the watch of the global refugee crisis. We want to decide who we are and who we want to be like. This is our sovereign national decision, and I ask this House not to let this happen. This is a Hungarian national duty, it is a constitutional duty, and only we Hungarians can decide that, it cannot be said in the UN headquarters, in New York, or even in the centres of Brussels, that can only be the decision of the Hungarian people. I ask you to stick to this position. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. It's a rare applause from the ranks of ethnic advocates.]]
u2015-09-21-16	Dear Parliament, Actions before the pre-scheduled agenda will now take place. I give the floor first to the member of the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél. And I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber as soon as possible and with the slightest amount of noise if they want to leave at all costs. And the congresswoman will give me a few seconds of patience. [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] And from those who remain inside, the attention is tense and quiet. Congresswoman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about a national fate issue, which you think the LMP should have dealt with earlier, and it would have called for immediate action by the Hungarian government months ago. We are saddened to see that this care and attention from the Hungarian government does not happen, even though we live to see from week to week and month to month that tens of thousands of families are breaking up, due to emigration. I would like to share with you a recent experience that we gained in the summer, because the LMP has launched consultations on emigration in several waves this summer. This online questionnaire series was filled out by more than 5,000 people, although the LMP was obviously unable to spend 100 million forints on the consultation campaign. And, unfortunately, I have to tell you that the drawing of the picture has also underdone our worst expectations: more than half of the emigrated Hungarians do not plan to return to their homeland, Hungary. And it's no wonder, because the vast majority of these people in their own profession were able to find their way abroad and become successful people who can live under certain conditions, and they have failed in Hungary, not because they would have made a mistake. What you must see, however, is that the opinion of Hungarians at home is even more terrifying. More than 80 percent of respondents have come up with the idea that they will continue their lives abroad. And I am sad to say to you - and now I ask you not to see the opposition representative, because obviously you don't believe me so much, but believe these people - that these people feel that the Hungarian government is not dealing with this problem, which they too - I stress - are experiencing as a problem. As we looked at the answers, we didn't have to wait long to find out the reasons, and we saw that more than half of the Hungarians who went abroad clearly replied that they needed the higher salary abroad, because in Hungary the wages they received for decent work couldn't make a living. Of course, there are some government members - although they are not in the room right now - who say that this should be the case in Hungary for another 20 years, that we have to work for so little money. I think that the Hungarian government can seem to intervene when it is in his interest: we have seen not so long ago that you have been able to raise the salary of state leaders so fast that people have been rushing their heads, I might say, by throwing out the guarantee among the Hungarian people that millions of forints can now be taken home by state leaders, up to 5 million forints, and then comes the premium and other benefits. Where are those people, gentlemen and ladies, who carry this country on their backs, and what kind of money do they use? I do not know, and I respectfully ask the competent representative of the government to answer how it is possible that this segment of employee poverty was thought to be found by you, even though I do not think that it is necessary to explain to you that, when it comes to numbers such as those I have shared with you in the context of this consultation, we must agree that this is a national issue, it is a question of Hungarian people who are leaving. And I am sad to say that more and more Hungarian women in their best parental age are also going abroad. I respectfully ask, what about the children who are born there? They will not be raised in Hungary, but abroad, where they have gained their experience. I do not exaggerate to say, honourable ministers and secretary of state, that we are losing an entire generation because Fidesz-KDNP refuses to act. And then, when they had received enough information from the LMP about the time it was time to act now - and there is also the Secretary of State Czomba - they launched the smiling programme, the programme "Come home, young" which is about: He drowned in the fact that 21 people were brought home from the 100 million budget. I can only hope, honourable ministers and secretary of state, in this House, that you will not learn from the LMP that the problem of emigration cannot be solved by communication campaigns. Because I would like to emphasise that whoever chooses to emigration makes the most important decision of his life. What we need to see is that these people leave their families, their friends, and most of them are about to make a life-long decision before they move out. Such a decision cannot be influenced by empty words and promises. So I ask the honourable government what it does to prevent Hungarian people from being forced - I stress, forced - abroad; what does the Hungarian government put on the table so that we do not lose tens of thousands of people constantly because the wages in Hungary are bad. The LMP has a clear answer: we want a country where Hungarian people do not work for alms in assembly plants, we want a code of work that protects Hungarian people, an economic policy that restores the honour of the work. Unfortunately, the problem here is that it becomes clear to everyone that you are handing out with one hand - here state leaders with millions of dollars in salaries, bonuses, benefits - and others work in assembly plants, if you don't like it, then go abroad. You didn't say that, but you behave exactly the same way.
u2015-09-21-18	On behalf of the government, Mr Sándor Czomba will answer. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I start with what we agree with: we agree that it has indeed raised an important, existing problem that is crucial not only in today's period but also in later decades, how the governments of this time are dealing with it. But this is about the end of the memoranda of understanding, because you are referring to a series of data published by you, right, 5,000 people, I don't want to quote Churchill here, you know what he said about this, I would like to tell you a KSH data, and I will say it quite precisely, so I can tell you according to the SEEMIG project published by KSH: 350 thousand Hungarian emigrated people live in the world who left Hungary after 1989, but at least one year before the survey was carried out. This one made 30,000 families, found them, and found these families targeted. So if you'll excuse me, I'm more of a believer in this series. And what's important is that after 2009, less than 10 percent of those who left say they don't plan to return home; once again, less than 10 percent. I therefore believe that in the political language, it is appropriate to consider movements within the European Union not as migrant movements, but as migrant workers, because it rather covers the reality, the real picture that this process reflects. Obviously, there was a significant increase in 2004 when we joined the Union. But one of our most important tasks was to join the Union because we wanted to ensure free labour flow, both inward and outward. And for those who experience foreign employment as an opportunity and not as a compulsion, there is nothing wrong with them. [[13.40]] In 2011, the German and Austrian markets are open and there is significant migration growth. We also agree in part when you say that the first thing you need to do is to keep our young people at home and not try to bring them home from abroad, because I don't think there's going to be such a perfect program - no state will ever be able to operate - to bring everyone home. And how has the Hungarian Government taken measures in this regard in recent years? Well, let me just say a few things and really focus on young people: in the 15-24 age group there are 65 thousand more people working now than in 2010, with 65 thousand, and 275,000 working instead of 210,000. If you're saying it's a small figure, it could be that, obviously from the opposition side, I might say the same thing, but it's very significant. And this did not happen on its own, but the Hungarian government had a number of measures, let them list only a few:. First job + guarantee scheme, Diploma Rescue Program, benefits from the job protection action plan, student work, housing support, support for young people to become entrepreneurs, Youth Guarantee Programme. And what you are about to say is that, as part of a young programme, I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that there is not a single European state that has announced a programme for young people to come home. The Poles are experimenting, the Slovaks are experimenting, they're coming to us now. The Slovaks plan to attract those who graduated from Cambridge or, by the way, from colleges and universities in Great Britain. I'm happy to tell you that there are 34 people who have come home, not twenty-some, but those who have come home, and I'm sure they'll have it within the deadline of 50 people. Another interesting question is whether it is worth it outside of England, and it is no longer a question, but we can treat it as a fact that it is necessary to extend this opportunity to Germany, Austria and other Member States, because there are many who are interested in the programme. More than 180 people have already contacted the Hungarian employer, but you know it is not easy to do the same, as it is not easy to do the same. So until a young man gets home, it'll take months, even six months. So what I can say is that we agree that, first and foremost, we need to make it possible for as many young people as possible to find a way to get along at home, but we also need to provide a guarantee and a programme so that those who intend to come home can do so. With this program, we've breached the shield, and I hope this shield will continue to expand in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-21-20	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, I would like to ask the members of the government to terminate the private council. [[It's happening.]] I'm very grateful. The leader of the faction has the floor.
u2015-09-21-21	Mr President, Dear House, The Prime Minister has spoken about the issue of pan-European fate, and I would like to say a few sentences about this and perhaps the context of this. First of all, we must state that we all know this phenomenon, because there is an invasion of migration, we also know the reasons, but we must say that Hungary has handled this situation best from among the European countries. It must also be about our responsibility, which is twofold, and we have always said: on the one hand, we need to help the persecuted, troubled person, on the other hand, we also need self-defense. However, aid must clearly take place outside Europe, as regards the masses, and peace must be created in the issuing countries and opportunities must be created in their neighbours. The Prime Minister also spoke about the state of Europe and, of course, we should also be told. It may sound cynical, but let's just say that the suicide attempt in Western Europe has succeeded, the process of Islamization is irreversible; it has started after World War II, and it is now accelerating and culminating. I'm talking about Western Europe. Allow me to say a few words about the background. We know what started the migration process: someone encouraged them - how, in the dark - political, financial, who knows what their reasons were, but they were told to go to Europe and live well there. And on this we have an industry, the economic interest, the consequences and process of which we see. And more importantly, it should not be about migrants, but about migrant problems, the European political elite. There are two approaches: pro-immigration and anti-immigration. What's the difference between the two? I clearly see this side of the idea: someone's image of man and society also determines their political intentions. A person who thinks in a individual and views society as a diverse ensemble of individuals and thinks in a multicultural society is wrong, because the ideals of multicultural society have failed. It exists in the sense that the diversity of nations living side by side can form this great society; it exists that within a country minorities also give a lot of color to society, but it definitely remains within a cultural circle. If masses flow from a foreign culture, they are unable to form a united and integrated society. If, on the other hand, one considers society to be not only a society of individuals with human dignity, but also a society of community people who experience their rights, humanity and dignity through communities, then the collective of these communities constitutes society, and we need to protect these communities and the standards they represent, and this is already an aspect of self-defense in this matter. So not only humane behavior with those in trouble, but also self-defense must prevail, and that is the crucial aspect in this invasion today. So it is safe to say that our image of the world, our image of man and society, determines how we deal with political issues, in this case migration. After all - and this is the decisive political issue - how do we see Europe through these glasses: the Europe of the United States or the community of nations? We support the latter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-22	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In addition to the fact that it is important that those who arrive here receive the care necessary for the human quality of life for humane reasons - on the one hand, it was about the beneficiaries of immigration, the modern migration, on the other hand, about the dangers of this, and about the danger of Islamisation that is more visible in Western Europe, and we have not even talked about it in Eastern Europe, and we cannot even assess the exact consequences of this. It is also very important to have the care - as a Christian Democrat politician mentioned by the leader of the group - provided by Hungary. We can talk about 660,000 sandwiches or half a million bottles of water distributed in a month by representatives of the Hungarian authorities to illegal cross the border, or the 18,000 kilograms of bread used for all of this, 22,000 cans, and how many apples or bananas have been distributed. In addition to the fact that we treat those who are here with humanity, we need to see who in Western Europe are those who benefit from this huge flood of people. You may have heard that Gerhard Schröder was once called Chancellor of Kreuzberg; this is the part of town, the quarter where most of the Muslim immigrants live. His election victory in 2002 was extremely close, and it was thanks, among other things, to this quarter, to the voters here, whose votes he received largely, that he became Chancellor of Germany and not the Christian Democratic candidate. [[13.50]] In Germany, 70-90 percent of first-generation immigrants and 60-65 percent of second-generation immigrants vote for left-wing, socialist, social democratic parties. That is why Western European politicians - and we often don't see them in the news besides their names that they are actually representatives of a socialist or social democratic party - say that they come in as much proportion as possible. If we look at the example of France alone and the 2012 presidential elections, where a million votes have decided who will be President of France, we can see that 2.2 million Muslim immigrants have cast their votes and won by one million votes for the socialist, Social Democratic candidate. If it hadn't been for these two million Muslim votes, or if it had been balanced and halved, or if the majority of the population had voted according to the rates of Muslim immigrants, President Sarkozy could have kept his presidency. For this reason, it seems to be a burning task for the left in France, since 93 percent of Muslim immigrants voted for them in 2007, but 58 percent of Muslim immigrants in Britain are Labour Party, and similar examples could be given in Austria, Switzerland, Spain, the Netherlands or Sweden. So who are the beneficiaries of this? Clearly, left-wing parties, and for this reason they encourage these people to actually put them at great risk on the road, because whether they arrive at sea or on land, there are a lot of difficulties ahead of them, and many people actually suffer very much. But what are the dangers of that? We talked little about this in Hungary, too. Many now say that parallel societies can develop throughout Europe, because instead of the state legal system, in these communities, which create a completely closed community, even when married among themselves, there is a different legal system, not the legal system of the state. We know of extreme examples: in one German city, even a Sharia police force was set up from volunteers. We can say that this kind of Islamist attitude and European setting are not compatible. The Muslim attitude consists in the breakdown of the secular state, which is why it cannot interpret the autonomy of the churches, which our Fundamental Law and European values both consider important and the secular existence of the state. For this reason, it stands fully with the state as a completely interlinked part of religion, which is not at all compatible with European culture, I think, in our view, although public policy must be built on the partnership of the church and state. We also have a completely different approach to human rights. While we ensure equal human rights for all people, Muslim attitudes are completely differentiated, not everyone has the same right. The extent to which women's equality is different in European and Muslim perceptions, I believe, is one of the most striking differences. Or in the case of religious tolerance; for example, if more and more Muslim immigrants come, we can be realistic about the increase in anti-Semitic attacks, as there have been many examples in France. The acceptance of violence or the value of human life, such as the acceptance of suicide attacks, has a completely different view of value in the attitude of Muslim and European Christians. That's why allowing this kind of migration without barriers is also an internal tension and religious tension. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It also brings Muslim internal tensions. I therefore believe that this should be handled very, very carefully by European politicians. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-24	Now it's time for Team Leader Tobias to take on current affairs. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-25	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has two major challenges. One is the settlement of the refugee issue at European level, and the other is the recent speech by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, if they allow small malaria. But in fact, I would like to talk about Hungary and its three fundamental challenges: poverty, workers' poverty and a lack of development. In Hungary, the size and depth of poverty and workers' poverty have grown to unprecedented proportions since 1990. Last year, I had the pleasure of talking to the House about the problem of poverty that you were laughing at, and you have not done anything about it since. Yet poverty and vulnerability are growing in Hungary. Today we also need to talk about the insufferable scale of workers' poverty, the way they pay their wages, and how people can't make a living. Since there is no way out in the field of development, Hungary is slowly failing, young people are leaving, salaries are low, and the mood, as it appeared previously, is horrific and without a vision. In the fifth year of your government, there is no security of life and no pay for people's work. It is now clear that the Hungarian people are indebted to the low lawsuits. The real wage level of Hungarian workers is only a third of the EU average. Firefighters, cops, nurses, social workers are struggling with a crisis. For example, social workers live under conditions, honourable Members, who are cared for and treated daily. In Hungary, people work too much for too little money. And it's not the cost reduction or the career models that are going to solve their problem, which at best can only preserve the current situation. We therefore demand an immediate increase in wages for the Hungarian people, because we see that there is money, honourable Members. Your intentions are the real problem. After all, you want to increase the salaries of state leaders, the heads of state companies, while you don't want the people's money, while you're doing it. [[Nándor Gúr: That's right!]] They are carrying out pointless and literally knife-opening prestige investments, and there is money in the Hungarian National Bank to use the state's profits and the state's revenue as its own. You're wasting it! And it would be their duty to turn back all those who do the good of the public, the service of the state every day. Because this investment, this raise is not an expense. Investing in the future, investing in people, because it keeps the workforce at home, because if the workers have money, they can buy, and they can't, they don't have to pay the price. We don't need beauty patches, we need a real raise. Therefore, we recommend: an average 50% wage increase, a salary increase for everyone to receive at least HUF 150,000 net salary. Fifty per cent salary increases should be made to social, healthcare workers, education, protection and public administration workers. It's for all those who run this country today. During the uniform payment arrangement, the net HUF 100,000 of the minimum wage in the salary increase system should be added to the guaranteed salary of HUF 150,000, HUF 175 000 of the guaranteed salary for higher education and HUF 200,000 of the net for university graduates. For educator, policeman, health worker, social worker and public administration worker. This is because this is how everyone we have talked about in Parliament today remains at home. Fifty-hundred million people are being programmed - they must be paid so that they do not want to leave Hungary! This is necessary in 2015 because the problem is here and now it is here. The solution is in your hands. We demand a raise in 2015 for all those who serve the state with honor to this day! Thank you.
u2015-09-21-26	Once again, Bencé Rétvári has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As I listened to you, I somehow thought that the socialists in the opposition always have good ideas about what to do, and they always have excuses on the government, why they can't do it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We did it!]] Somehow, the last 25 years have been about this in the case of the socialists, always with a loud voice, and then in the actions, never with the protection and support of the people who would make a living on wages. [[Zoltán Gőgös: What was it like from 2002, talk about it!]] Who would make a living on a salary. They paid increasing personal income tax or increased their VAT by 5 percent in 2006, while international companies somehow always benefited, somehow they made huge profits out of this country. And when Fidesz-KDNP turned this ratio around in 2010 [[Nándor Gúr: Millions in the financial sector!]] , and companies must now leave their profits here in Hungary in a thousand billion-dollar scale, and, among other things, by means of the reduction of the rent, they are always worried about those small-income families, Hungarian pensioners, and Hungarian citizens who pay less in their utility bills. They never worry about people, but they always worry about these big companies when they're in a position to make decisions. [[14.00]] I ask you: you can talk about a lot about the minimum wage here, but when the Fidesz-KDNP government between 98 and 2002, if I remember correctly, it raised the minimum wage from 17 thousand to 50 thousand forints. [[Zoltán Pride: And how much was the net?]] And then in eight years, why would the socialists just... [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-21-28	I don't remember speaking to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös or Nándor Gúr.
u2015-09-21-29	So between 98 and 2002, Fidesz-KDNP raised it from 17 thousand to 50 thousand forints, and then you raised it to 70 thousand forints during your eight-year government, because they always claimed what a burden it would be for employers, large companies, if people had to pay this salary, and then Fidesz-KDNP has increased the minimum wage for the last five years to well above 100 thousand forints. How come you're talking about the support of the small-money people, but those who work, who make a living on the minimum wage and minimum wage, when they raise their wages, the socialists never showed up when they were on the government? If you look at it, you raised the minimum wage by an average of 2-3 thousand forints each year when you were on the government, and Fidesz-KDNP raised the minimum wage by 6-7 thousand forints when you were on the government. So Fidesz-KDNP was able to raise the standard of living for people with the lowest income. And what we have been doing in tax cuts policy over the last few years is precisely for the purpose of keeping more money with people who work, who make a living on a salary. The fact that the tax rate is no longer above 30 per cent or even 41 per cent - I can no longer remember whether it was in your program or in your LMP, that we should raise the top rate of personal income tax above 40 per cent - but we are pushing it down to 16 per cent this year and 15 per cent next year means that everyone can take more home. I also listened a little strangely to you when you talked about the need for teachers to raise their wages - of course, all Hungarian citizens agree that teachers should earn more - but how was it the socialists who took the wages of teachers away from the 13th month's wages, and how did they not notice that in recent years the salaries of teachers have been increased by about 40 percent? They were the first in the policy of wage increases, who received a noticeable increase in salaries. And at the beginning of October of this year, in two weeks' time, there will be a time when teachers will receive an increase in their salary from 1 September of this year. Remember, Congressman: In 2013 it was HUF 36 billion, in 2014 it was HUF 120 billion, and this year, too, more than HUF 30 billion is the amount that teachers receive in addition. But we can also talk about social workers, because although Fidesz-KDNP has done everything in its power to increase their wages, on the one hand, we have introduced a sectoral wage supplement in 2014, which was HUF 12 billion plus for the employees here, this year's total wage increase will increase by HUF 7 billion, and in the MSZP period somehow it has not been possible to do so. In addition to the fact that you have given legal opportunity to increase the fees, you have not raised your salary to those working in the social sector in your last years. But they forgot to introduce a public wage ceiling, and in connection with people's indebtedness, one of their politicians said with their arms wide open that these people had taken on these loans, the state could not help them. The Fidesz-KDNP government had to come so that we could somehow help people in several steps in a foreign exchange loan trap. Again, you were worried about the banks and not about the citizens. I suggest to the socialist government that, if you are talking about prestige investments, you should remember your own government district. We have built or renovated buildings that serve the pride of all Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-30	Now it is up to Gábor Vona, leader of the Group, from Jobbik, to address immigration as a major challenge for the future. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-31	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Prime Minister said that the problem is mass migration. The Prime Minister is wrong about this, because mass migration is, in fact, a cause. The reason, the problem itself, is an unjust, dysfunctional world order that moves around the world, moves in different regions and countries like elephants in porcelain shops, destroying countries and trampling nations at its own will. I know, I am aware that Hungary does not have the weight to change this world order, or it has very little weight for this, but let us say it here among ourselves, at least let us see clearly that these unjust wars, which caused this whole migration crisis primarily, we, Hungary, have contributed to our supporting votes, our soldiers, our moral support, our name. Also, the left that is now in fear of migrants, I do not know where he was when these wars had to be decided. And I wonder where the current government was and where it is now, when it might be worth reconsidering the Hungarian position in relation to these wars. It is certain that the Hungarian interest is that Hungary must be protected, and it is also true that, in the meantime, we are also defending the Christian European cultural circle. We do not know whether Western Europe is waking up or not, and if it wakes up, it may be too late, and I do not even think it is impossible that we will have to face a migrant problem again in 20 years' time, but then we will have to decide on the escape of white, Christian Europeans from the West to Hungary. After all, we are now defending our own country and protecting Hungary with a technical border closure and a population of people. None of it is enough on its own. In Csongrád County, we saw that the fence is not enough without people, and now in Baranya and Somogy we see that there are people there, even though there are police there, even though the authorities are there, they are unable to hold back the flood of migrants without a fence. I did not want to comment on this in my reaction to the Prime Minister, but here I do, however, that, while we are, of course, satisfied with the government's measures, we should not forget that Croatia brought to us by trains and buses the migrants whom we had held back a few days ago in Röszke. I went down to Pelmonostor, there on the platform I spoke to the migrants who were crowded on the train, and among them there were several people whose injuries were seen from their struggle with the Hungarian police. Let's think that we held these people back with great forces - by the way, quite rightly - at Röszke, and then we stood by and watched the Croatians send them to Hungary with buses and trains. This would certainly be worth thinking about and completing Hungary's defence as soon as possible. I have drafted steps and proposals here today, and unfortunately the Prime Minister has not responded to them, so I will rephrase it in case Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to them. Let's do something about the smuggling gangs. Let's at least try to eliminate their lines in Hungary. Well, I'm hearing some of these little results on the news, but if I go to an M5 gas station, I'm sure I'll meet people smugglers. The other is the return of the border guard. It is very good that police and soldiers are now guarding the Hungarian border, but I do not think that the current government will imagine it in the long term that the police and soldiers will always be at the border. Otherwise, the police would have much more to do, and the security risk and public safety threat would be the need to keep them away from their basic areas. That is why it would be very important to restore the border guard. We are not repeating this to you as a mantra, but this is indeed an honest and well-meaning proposal. Please consider this. If you don't consider it, the future will force you out, Mr. Secretary, believe me. And if we are already setting up the border guard, I would also ask you to consider that the civilian force, the civil protection force that people have - there are decent, moral and capable people - could be involved in various logistical or other tasks to protect the border. If that is the case, I would ask the Parliament, ourselves, to create the legal possibilities of this, to sit down our policy makers, to legislate about this, and to include these energies in the protection of the border as soon as possible, especially if the Prime Minister talks about not even having a winter break. I also call for consideration to be given to our proposal on volunteering, since men's commitment to war is a basic rule of law, while the Hungarian state does not provide adequate access to basic defence knowledge. I know that there is a voluntary operational reserve system, but there may also be a need for a system that would make it much more flexible and much easier to involve newer and newer energies and skilled people in crisis situations and disaster situations to protect the border. And finally, the quota system. Prime Minister said that Europe may already be making the wrong decision this week. Then let us not talk in riddles, but let us say that Hungary will initiate a referendum, whether at EU level that Europe will not force the quota system on us, it cannot do so, because that is not the opinion of Hungarian people, but I am convinced that it is not the opinion of European people either. And if so, let us not be afraid of this referendum, let us not talk in riddles, but set the goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-32	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, No one now disputes the fact that more than 97 percent of illegal migrants arriving in Hungary did not cross the borders of the Union in Hungary, but in Greece, and the remaining 3 percent are likely to cross the borders in Bulgaria. These people reached Hungary in contact with countries such as Macedonia, Serbia, which are safe countries. In these countries, whether in Greece, Macedonia or Serbia, illegal migrants were not at risk of their lives, their families' lives were not threatened, their safety was not at risk. These people, in particular, went to Western Europe with or on the basis of the information that the camps in Turkey or the camps in Lebanon or Jordan had reduced the level of care or received a specific invitation from Germany to take in all Syrian refugees. [[14.10]] This information was given at the beginning of September, after which Hungary was in a situation where hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants reached Hungary. This is why the government had to make a decision in this situation that Hungary should be protected. That is why we have presented to Parliament the laws, the amendments to the ten-half laws which Parliament adopted at the beginning of September and the amendments to the two-thirds laws, the laws on defence, defence and police, the debates of which we are now having, and which, unfortunately, on 4 September, the Parliament could not accept thanks to the votes of the left. Thus, as a result of the tightening of the borders on 15 September, when Parliament had a serious punishment against smugglers, against illegal migrants who crossed the border illegally, damaged the border, or hindered the construction of the technical lock, we were able to achieve significant results from 15 September. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to give you some numbers to prove it. On 14 September 9830 people entered Hungary illegally at the Serbian-Hungarian border; that is 9830 people. This weekend, i.e. in the last 72 hours, 20 176 people entered Hungary illegally, 722 people in Serbia and 19,436 people in Croatia. So it can be said that the combined technical border closure, legal protection and lively protection resulted in the situation that, while on 14 September nearly 10,000 illegal migrants crossed the Hungarian-Serbian border, 240 people entered the daily average in the last 72 hours. Of course, this is also 240 more than we need, and we are working on it, and the government has made it clear from the start that, illegally, legally, no illegal migrant can possibly cross Hungary's borders. Mr President, on illegal migration, Mr President, he called for more stringent action against trafficking in human beings. I would like to remind you that the amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Parliament has seriously, significantly increased the penalties for this crime, and the police are acting decisively. More than 1,200 smugglers were caught by the Hungarian police and launched proceedings. Of course, more needs to be done so that we can act even more effectively against smugglers, but this is a clearly defined objective for the police. With regard to the restoration of the border guard, I would like to say that the national police commissioner made provision on 1 September 2015 for the establishment of the Border Police Directorate within the organisational framework of the Alert Police. In the framework of this, border-hunting units were established, with 2106 people created by the national commissioner, and the number of them is now 3,600. With regard to the involvement of civil protection forces, I would like to say [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that we are expecting the vigilante in this very important task, and the National President of the Civil Guard has also shown willingness to do so in his statement. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-34	Antal Rogán, the leader of the Fidesz Group, will be the last in the list of speeches before the agenda, with the title of modern-day migration and its social and political consequences. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, here in this House, I think we have talked about immigration quite thoroughly and for a long time today, about modern migration. Because I think, as I have followed the various comments here, let us be clear, let us be clear that not everyone shares that position, but I am convinced that what we are talking about here is actually a modern-day migration. At the beginning of his speech, Prime Minister, he made clear the figures that show that there are millions of potential livelihood immigrants outside the European Union, who consider the European Union as a primary target. I think that if there is not a clear, clear strategy for this for the European Union, then virtually a modern-day migration, which is becoming more and more mass and coming in a wide range of waves, will constantly be besieging the borders of the European Union. The supply of this modern - day migration is almost inexhaustible. This is quite clear from the figures that Prime Minister has listed. Ladies and gentlemen, Such a modern-day migration can test not only the border guards, the various authorities of the European Union and the European peoples, but also the European Union itself as an institution. We really have to face the fact that the European Union is able to accommodate and integrate millions of people at once. Can you make a living in any way for all of you? Is it capable of integrating people from a fundamentally different cultural environment into a Christian Europe, a Christian European cultural circle? And we are not talking about religion here, because culture and religion are two different things in this regard. Traditional rights are different things. Is the acceptance of European culture, of laws based on Christian culture, or of internal laws based on their own habits, even living their lives within the European Union? We can see that there are parallel societies in several countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, These answers must indeed be provided at European level. And the European Union's response cannot be unlimited and universal inclusion. Not even because it is obvious that the peoples of Europe disagree on this. And here, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us state that everyone in Hungary has been able to express their views. Before making any decision on this situation, the Hungarian Government announced a broad national consultation. Every family, every Hungarian person, had the opportunity to express their opinion. Over a million people have done this. Since then, public opinion polls have shown that as in the consultation, more than 80 percent of the Hungarian people have made it clear and clear that they have decided and expect the government to protect Hungary and protect its borders. This has also been the subject of recent measures. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that protection is not simply a technical structure. It requires human strength, it requires the defence and the police at the border, it needs the authority given to them, it needs a functioning legal barrier, so that those who fail to comply with our laws and attempt to enter the country through the former green border in violation of the technical border are faced with criminal consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, All of this is needed together. This is the complete border lock: the legal border lock, the technical border lock and the associated live force, the defence and the associated police. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, Parliament has to make very important decisions for the functioning of this system. Therefore, once again, before the next vote, I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members for two things. Those who really consider the protection of borders important, and I now see that the socialists have joined it, I would like to ask them to ensure that the Hungarian police and the Hungarian defence can do so. That is why they should vote for a two-thirds law that gives Hungarian soldiers the right to defend the country's borders. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you all to vote for a derogation from the house rules, which will ensure that the legal border closure is also operational at the Croatian border. Because if Parliament gives us the authority today and we can mobilize the defence of the Croatian border, then the jurisdictions of the courts must also be made clear on the spot. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It should also be possible for the district court in Pécs to act in the relevant border infringement cases. I therefore ask you to support the Government and the protection of national borders with your decision today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-09-21-36	Once again, Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2015-09-21-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, after the successful defence of the Hungarian-Serbian border, another very important and very difficult task must be carried out: the protection of the Hungarian-Croatian border, and the necessary, honourable Parliament, that the parliament today gives those powers in relation to the amendment of the Hungarian Defence and Defence Law and the law on the law on the police, which is necessary to enable the Hungarian Defence Office to, for example, contribute to the protection of the Hungarian state border. Dear Parliament, Walking around the country, I find that people support the government's efforts to protect the borders, because, as my colleague Antal Rogán said in his speech, they clearly expressed their views during the national consultations, they expect the government to protect Hungary's borders and protect the Hungarian people. The only way to fulfill this task is to authorise the defence to contribute to the protection of the state border. Ladies and gentlemen, My experience is that people expect a country in such a situation to use all its powers, to use all its legal powers in order to meet the security of its citizens. And indeed, as my fellow Member has said, this requires the temporary technical closure to operate at those stages and to operate at these new stages, to use all living forces, and to operate the legal border lock as we have made a concrete proposal in the proposed bill. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made clear in his comments before the agenda and in his response to the comments that Hungary can handle this situation, but we need a pan-European solution. In our view, the first and most important moment of this pan-European solution is for everyone to comply with the requirements of the Schengen Convention to protect borders. The most important point of this Schengen Convention is the 9th. § 1 states that the Schengen external border can only be opened at an official border crossing point, it also states that this can only be crossed during the legal opening hours and that these can only be crossed by legal documents. Dear Parliament, In view of these, I believe that Parliament is about to adopt very important laws, and if we receive the support that is necessary for these proposals, then we will comply with the clear opinion of the people, the resolution of more than one million people who have clearly formulated the requirement to defend Europe's borders and to defend the Hungarian borders. That is why I ask the Parliament with respect, the parties, to vote in favour of these laws. There is an old Hungarian wisdom: what you can do today, do not delay it tomorrow. That's what I'm asking the Honourable Parliament to do. That's what I'm offering you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-09-21-39	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Lukács György, Jobbik; László Varju, independent; Loránt Hegedűs, Lorántné, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; Mátyás Firtl, KDNP; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; István Szilárd Németh, Fidesz. Speaking after the agenda tomorrow: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-09-21-40	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at the 50th World Jubilee Championship of Intersteno, the International Federation of stenographers, typists and text editors, organized in Budapest, in the category of graphic shorthands, the first four seats were acquired by the shortwriters of the Office of Parliament. First place is Ferenc Zsuzsa, second place is Erika Vicai, third place is Judit Árvayné Dani, fourth place is Éva Horváth Szilvia. On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I congratulate you all and wish you further success in your work. [[They've been training on the Fidesz!]] Dear House, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, with the resignation of Ferenc Papcsák, Member of the Fideszes, he has appointed Mr István Hollik from the common national list of Fidesz-KDNP. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined, on the basis of the electoral documents, the regularity of Mr István Hollik's credentials. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the provisions of each House Rule 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-41	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, Ferenc Papcsák will be chairing the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank from 7 July 2015. On the 5th of August 2015 Fidesz-KDNP resigned its mandate on the joint party list of Members of Parliament set up in the general elections of 2014 by nominating Fidesz-KDNP. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 131/2015. István Hollik was given to Mr. Hollik by decision of 4 September 2015. On 7 September 2015, the decision became final at 4 p.m. The transfer of the credentials took place on 7 September 2015. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary Resolution No.9 Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Mr Hollik István at its meeting last week. In the meantime, the Member indicated in his statement that there was no conflict of interest against him, so he would be able to exercise his representatives' rights. On the basis of the above, the immunity committee has taken the following decision unanimously, without abstentions and against votes: the immunity committee proposes to the Parliament to justify Mr István Hollik's mandate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-42	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Before the vote, please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Now it's time for the vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies Mr István Hollik's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the mandate of Mr István Hollik of the House was unanimously confirmed by 187 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman István Hollik to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I would ask Mr István Tiba to read the text of the oath, and I would ask the honourable Parliament, when the Member comes in, to hear it standing up. [[The people in this room stand up. István Hollik steps into the middle of the room. Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-09-21-43	I, István Hollik, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to uphold its laws and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-09-21-44	Dear Parliament, After taking the oath, I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring József to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates István Hollik and gives a copy of the signed oath document. István Hollik is the first to be congratulated by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Viktor Orbán, Zoltán Balog, Antal Rogán, Péter Harrach, Gábor Vona, Dr. András Schiffer and Dr. Bertalan Tóth.]] Allow me to wish the new Member of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. I would like to inform you that Congressman István Hollik is working as a member of the KDNP faction in the future. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is complete, so it is 199. Congratulations. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the termination of the mandate and the appointment of a new minister. I would like to ask Mr. István Tiba to present the transcript relating to the ministerial mandate.
u2015-09-21-45	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I would like to inform the Parliament that the basic law is Article IX. Article 4 (c) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 42. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, I have concluded that Dr. Csaba Hende's term of office will cease with effect from 9 September 2015 and that Article IX of the Fundamental Law will cease to apply. Article 4 (j) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 54. I concluded that this mandate of Dr. István Simicskó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, will be terminated with effect from 9 September 2015, while at the same time Article IX of the Fundamental Law. 1 (4) (c) and Article XVI Pursuant to Rule 7 of the Act, Dr. István Simicskó was appointed Minister of Defence with effect from 10 September 2015. Budapest, 8 September 2015 Greetings, János Áder.
u2015-09-21-46	Dear Parliament, We're about to take the minister's oath. I would like to inform you that Minister-designate István Simicskó has heard and supported the appointment of the Defence and Police and the National Security Committee. Now the solemn oath and the oath will be signed. I ask Minister István Simicskó to come to the centre of the Chamber, and I ask Mr István Tiba to read out the text of the oath, and our fellow Members, in accordance with our custom, to hear it standing up. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. István Simicskó steps into the middle of the room. Dr. István Tiba reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-09-21-47	I, István Simicskó, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-09-21-48	I ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Minister István Simicskó to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. István Simicskó and gives a copy of the signed oath document. To Dr. István Simicskó first Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Gábor Vona, József Tóbias, Dr. András Schiffer, Gábor Fodor, János Fuzik, Zoltán Balog, Antal Rogán and Dr. Bertalan Tóth congratulated him.]] For the new mandate of Minister István Simicskó, I wish you much strength and success on behalf of all of us. Dear Parliament, There follows the establishment of the working schedule of the autumn session of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that at last week's meeting of the House Committee there has been no consensus on the working schedule of the Parliament's autumn session in 2015, therefore the Parliamentary Act 13. Paragraph 6 of this Article requires a decision to be made. The working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. Dear House, I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, one representative and the first independent representative shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask if anyone wants to take that opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the autumn 2015 session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal for a working order by 127 votes in favour, 63 votes against and no abstentions. Now we're deciding on house rules. At last week's meeting of the House Committee, it was agreed that, like the previous session, the Parliament should adopt a derogation from house rules in relation to issues outside the agenda and during the interpellation period. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Believer to explain the substance of this.
u2015-09-21-49	Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament shall initiate the Parliament's adoption of its agenda for several weeks at its autumn session in 2015, (1) to be entitled to speak outside the political groups' agenda on the next day of the second week of the sitting, as set out on the agenda, not later than before the opening of the first day of the second week; (2) to depart from the House Rules of Procedure when discussing questions, so that on the second week of the sitting containing the item on the agenda of questions only the question which has been submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting may be discussed.
u2015-09-21-50	Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a derogation from the rules by 186 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The House Committee held its meetings before the meeting. Based on the position of the factions, T/6241. 1 and T/6244. I have proposed to discuss proposals with a derogation from house rules in my presidential power. At the meeting of the House Committee, the MSZP Group initiated the discussion of a further proposal with a derogation from house rules, and I am not presenting this without the necessary support. The Speaker of the Parliament, in derogation from the house rule, initiates the National Assembly to resolve issues relating to the conversion of claims arising from certain consumer loan agreements into forints T/6241. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the joint debate on the proposal can take place today and the decision and the final vote on tomorrow's day. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by T/6241/3. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, As in the foregoing, once again, we are talking about a vote of four fifths. I am asking this House whether it supports the departure from house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a proposal for a derogation from house rules by 161 votes in favour, 31 votes against. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the joint debate on the proposal take place today as the second-to-last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. [[14.40]] Dear House, The Speaker of Parliament, in derogation from the House Rule, initiates the National Assembly to rule on the jurisdiction of certain courts in civil and criminal matters T/6244. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the joint debate on the proposal can take place today, and the decision and the final vote will take place tomorrow. The proposal for a derogation from the house rule was made by T/624/4. You can get to know him on the website. Now it's time for the vote. Once again, four fifths of Members need a vote in favour. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House did not accept the proposal to derogate from the house rules by 152 votes in favour, 14 against and 28 abstentions. In the absence of the adoption of a derogation from the house rule, the author is T/6244. During the course of the trial of the legislative proposal No. 13, he initiated an urgent procedure to allow the general debate to take place at this meeting on Tuesday. The emergency proposal is T/624/3. You can know it on the website. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, is T/624 going to be in an urgent meeting? Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has put the proposal to an urgent hearing by 152 votes in favour, 11 against and 31 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/6244. for the general debate on the T/6129 proposal tomorrow. Following a general discussion of the number 1 proposal. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Message to the Heads of the European Union (H/5984). No proposal for a decision shall be discussed at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted this proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, the Speaker of Parliament proposed that the Parliament ask the negotiating committees to decide on certain reports. The house rules are 85. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on the three accounts separately without discussion. First, B/5787/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of Motion B/5787, whether it invites the designated Committee on Culture to carry out the tasks arising from the Convention on the Status of World Heritage Areas and the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 153 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Now B/5788/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of Motion B/5788 on the activities and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2014. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 124 votes in favour, 66 against and without abstentions. Now B/5882/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of motion B/5882 on food chain security and the use of the supervisory fee, to ask the designated Committee on Agriculture. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 125 votes in favour, 66 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Decisions on a personal proposal will not take place today. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the national border of Hungary and the management of mass immigration, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. Antal Rogán, Gergely Gulyás, Bence Tuzson, Szilárd Németh, Sándor Font, Pál Völner, Erik Bánki, Imre Vas, and Attila Móring József, Péter Harrach, Mátyás Firtl submitted by representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-09-21-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the House that the Legislative Committee discussed T/5985 on 16 September. The proposed amendment of certain laws in relation to the better protection of Hungary's state border and the management of mass immigration was submitted by the Committee with 24 votes in favour and 1 abstention. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The bill before us is closely linked to the law on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the management of mass immigration already adopted by Parliament in an exceptional procedure, since the two legislations together deal with the crisis caused by immigration. The reason for the delay is that, while, in the absence of support for the MSZP, the legislative proposal with a simple majority was open to exceptional proceedings at the government's initiative, it was not possible to do so in the current bill, since it also contains parts requiring two-thirds support. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Defence Committee and, on the other hand, the legislative committee's own proposal. As the events of the last few days have shown, the issue of terrorism cannot be decoupled from the crisis caused by migrants. Therefore, the amendment aims to enable the police, in cooperation with national security services, to carry out their task abroad in the fight against terrorism, and to detect acts related to terrorism in the future. In addition to the above, the amending proposal allows for the imposition of an insurance measure in order to protect the state border and is therefore integral to the objectives set out in the bill. In addition, taking into account the involvement of the military in the defence of the state border, it is necessary that the protection of the state border should appear between police security measures in order to make this contribution understandable in the case of the defence and remain within the framework of fundamental law. Finally, the amendment proposes that the personnel of the military should be entitled to take action or impose coercive measures in accordance with the rules applicable to police officers, contrary to the provisions of the law applicable to them. However, given that it is not justified or necessary to provide the Hungarian Defence Forces with the full range of police measures during the crisis caused by mass immigration, the text refers partly to the possible range of measures which the soldier is entitled to in line with the rules governing the police, partly with a rigid reference, and partly through the appropriate modified adoption of the legal text called for. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to remove some misconceptions, which were also raised at the committee meeting, in particular as regards the questions raised by the representative of the MSZP and his misconceptions. Maybe the most important thing was the right to use weapons. A soldier's basic right is to use his weapon if the conditions to support that need are met. These conditions remain the rules laid down in the Defence Act, which do not change. [[14.50]] There is therefore no change in this respect. Any conflicting claim in this regard is incorrect. There is still no intention of soldiers using their weapons in dealing with the migration crisis. A soldier is entitled to use a weapon only if his or her own or partner's life or physical integrity is at risk of immediate or otherwise irresistible danger. The other cardinal issue is the contribution of soldiers, which some opposition representatives have debated in an incomprehensible way. I believe that in recent years, the members of the defence have demonstrated that the country can count on them in various crisis situations, whether it is a red sludge disaster or a flood. Even in the crisis situation caused by migration, despite the wishes of the MSZP, they will be active supporters of the police and thus, overall, they will be able to help Hungarian people. By the way, the soldier acts on the orders of his own commander, so there is no hierarchy, no existence. Dear Parliament, Managing mass migration is a state task. The executive body of the State is the government, and therefore the government is obliged to use all available means to carry out its public service tasks and to use both the defence and the police. I find it sad that, at the time of many international attacks and beyond, some Members still did not realise that protecting our borders was in our primary interest. For the sake of action, please support the bill, because that is what people expect of us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-52	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask the authors if they'd like to speak now, or if they'd like to speak in the context of the closing. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh.
u2015-09-21-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The fact that we are discussing this bill today is due to the fact that almost three weeks ago 41 left-wing politicians here in Parliament prevented this bill from being discussed in an exceptional procedure and that we can accept this bill. Today we would say that the Hungarian-Serbian border or the Hungarian-Croatian border could be patrolled together with the police. These representatives are sitting with us in the benches of MSZP, LMP and independents. The situation is very sad and very dangerous. Today we are talking about a total of 224 235 illegal immigrants arriving in Hungary until 24 hours yesterday, and since the emphasis shifted, according to the fences, lively captures and legal situation built at the Serbian-Hungarian border, 201 687 people have crossed the Serbian-Hungarian border since 1 January, this shows a significantly decreasing trend in the last week if we show daily breakdown. The highest value and the 30th of the day after that decreased the number of immigrants, i.e. the 30th, and the emphasis was completely shifted to the Croatian-Hungarian border. This was experienced by television and those who visited the border. There are 21,966 people at zero hours, and this shows a very serious upward trend. The main problems have already been addressed in the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, and I think it is worth repeating the three ideas that he has said, because this bill serves the very purpose of stopping this illegal movement of mass migration at our borders. I think it is important that we have taken into account the difference between refugee status and illegal immigrant or economic migrants when the bill was adopted and when the bill was presented. I feel this is a very important point, because those who cross our borders, who are illegal, illegal, without travel documents, stormed down, not in cooperation, and who would like to say where they want to go in the European Union, are not refugees, they are not persecution, they are not fleeing a war, they are fleeing an exclusion, they are illegal economic immigrants. I think it is very important to mention that this crisis has been driven by the dissonance of the European Union's refugee policy or, if you will, demographic policy. The most left-wing politicians in the European Union confuse refugee policy with migrant policy, confuse demographic solutions and their population problem with the refugee issue. That is why statements that contradict each other, either hourly or daily, encourage these masses, these unfortunate people, to come to Europe calmly, because they will find their calculations here. And the third thing that we need to highlight in this bill is that we cannot with this bill or all the measures that we have taken in July, which we made in early September, legal rules, legal powers to bring the living force to the Hungarian and Schengen borders, with which we give the authority to act, we cannot stop this wave of migration, we cannot find a solution, we cannot solve this problem. We can only treat this symptomatically, and we can only handle this from the point of view of Hungary. The solution is in the hands of the European Union and the solution needs to be sought outside Europe's borders. In any case, there is a very big problem, and I think that we need to do this bill because of this problem, because of this migration problem, the domestic treatment of this illegal migration problem and the obligation of international rules on us. Just because we had a very serious dialogue with the Hungarian people before we started the legislation. We asked the Hungarian people about what they thought about this migration situation, and with 80-85 percent certainty they said that the European Union's policy was wrong, the national consultation found that much more decisive, humane, but decisive action was needed. People in Hungary have decided that we must protect the country's borders, the country's achievements so far, the country's achievements since 2010 and the security of its population. And we have decided to do so in any way, since the international mandate, the Schengen Treaty and Dublin III. That's what he's obliging us to do. This is why we have created the technical barrier, the construction that has already been completed at the Hungarian-Serbian border and is now being built at the Croatian-Hungarian border. We are talking about two fences, let's quote this fence, the fast-built wire barrier, and the temporary safety barrier. And that's why we made those laws, including the Btk. the amendment to the Convention declaring illegal border crossings to be a criminal offence or the destruction, avoidance, combating of these technical barriers, or, for example, taking a much more stringent action against smugglers. This category includes the legislation before us, which, as my fellow Member said in the opinion of the committee, amends the law on defence and police by involving the defence in the performance of these border guards and extending the powers of the police, and so we know that by these laws we can send human resources, human resources, to the borders, to supplement the technical border lock. With great respect, I ask the opposition, after many and many of my fellow Members, to consider their approach to this issue, not to stand on the side of illegal immigrants, but to see what is good for the Hungarian community, the European community, and to vote for the laws that protect both Hungarian and European borders. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-09-21-54	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member that he will have three minutes to say the closing word in the coming period. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government's position is presented by two speakers within the ten-minute timeframe available. First, I give the floor to Minister for Defence István Simicskó. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-09-21-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to thank the Hungarian Defence Forces for the work they have done so far, and let me thank Dr. Csaba Hende for the work he has done so far in front of Parliament in person. We'd like to continue the work you've started. Allow me to say a few words about the Hungarian Defence Agency's involvement so far. Of course, we all see and perceive the huge problem caused by mass immigration, and the Hungarian Defence Forces also have a role to play in this. In recent times, according to the government's decision, the first task of the Hungarian Defence Forces was to build and build the temporary safety barrier at the Hungarian-Serbian border for some 175 kilometres. In order to carry out this task, a total of 4300 soldiers were sent to the border, fairly, well before the deadline set, which was the end of October, and by mid-September this work was completed. The other important task of the Hungarian Defence Forces was to enable the Hungarian Defence Office to prepare itself to the extent necessary for the change of tasks that would take effect on the basis of the legislative amendment before us. To this end, the Chief of Staff has ordered a military exercise, a practice called "Definite Action 2015," which began in Hódmezővásárhely, the Hódmezővásárhely barracks, and, of course, the Hungarian Defence Office is ready to perform its new types of tasks. I would like to say that the aim of this exercise is, obviously, to prepare the assigned staff to perform a professional, legal and effective task in a legal environment which has changed due to the crisis caused by a drastically rising migration wave. Another decision has been taken, and this is the fact that the existing professional and contractual staff is very large in their service at the border, at the various border sections, so that the Chief of Staff saw fit, and this is what he suggested to me, that we also order the call for part of the voluntary operational reserve staff, in order to complete or relieve the professional and contractual staff. This has been done, and the necessary measures have been taken to this end. After that, seeing and monitoring the changes and developments of migration routes, we have taken the necessary decisions to ensure that, among other things, the Romanian-Hungarian border section is provided with a temporary border closure, and at the same time, forces have been transferred to the Hungarian-Croatian border section at the same time. The fact is that, at the same time, continuous reconnaissance has been deployed with the management of the Special Operations Teams and the involvement of unmanned aircraft, resulting in the determination of the situation and direction of movements of thousands of illegal immigrants. Two transport helicopters are involved in this operation, of course, immediately after the transfer of forces, they have started patrolling with the police and preparing themselves for migrants. The Hungarian Defence Forces continuously monitor the events on the border and the situation. It will pro-actively increase the level of preparedness and assign its forces in order to ensure that, following the amendment of the Defence Act, the assistance of the police can be achieved as effectively as possible. In order to maintain the fighting value, it shall avail itself of the benefits of the availability of the voluntary operational reserve in the peacekeepers. Overall, I would like to say that the Hungarian Defence Office is able to carry out its tasks arising from its basic order in an organized, prepared and motivated manner and to fulfil its duties under the law in order to protect the Schengen borders of Hungary and the European Union. At the same time, it should be stressed that the Hungarian Defence Office fully complies with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the Defence Act in its duties at the southern border section. Since 9 September, it has been prepared in the form of a practice to be able to fully fulfil its obligations arising from the changed legislative environment immediately after the amendment of the Defence Act. And let me now discuss the concept of a legislative amendment to the crisis caused by mass immigration. The proposal allows for the necessary amendment of the Defence Act to be implemented in accordance with the new concept of asylum law, the rules of crisis caused by mass immigration. The Hungarian Defence Forces can still not detract from the task and powers of the police, i.e. the constitutional position of the police is not affected. The Parliament has adopted T/5983 in recent weeks. Bill No.1, which introduced the possibility of publishing the crisis caused by mass immigration in our legal system. The Hvt. The draft text states that, in addition to its existing tasks, the defence will continue to exercise the right of use of arms in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration in the event of a crisis, i.e. an auxiliary task: to protect the state border, to implement a conflict situation that directly endangers the state border and to deal with the necessary measures to deal with mass migration, and to combat acts of violence against the state border. The contribution shall be limited to the area defined in the announced crisis situation and the government decree declaring it. With the introduction of a new subtitle, the amendment of the Defence Act defines a power of action for the personnel involved in the task provision, which is sufficient and appropriate for the Hungarian Defence Forces to be able to actually assist the police in dealing with the crisis caused by mass immigration. The soldier, I stress, will be entitled to several police measures only during this migration crisis and in the crisis area. At a time of migration crisis, the right of defence to use weapons is a right and not an obligation. The use of weapons and coercive devices shall be determined in accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality when drafting the law. In conclusion, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, the government's position that this draft law will stand the test of constitutionality is limited in space and time in the government decree declaring a crisis caused by mass migration. The soldier carries out the task armed, but the soldier can only use his weapon to protect himself and his companions; in all other cases he has other coercive means, which are absolutely necessary for the performance of his duties. In view of the objectives set out in the bill, the Government supports the proposal and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support you. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-56	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to talk about the amendment before you on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. This amendment aims to create the possibility for the police to carry out their exploratory activities to protect the border and prevent related crimes, in cooperation with national security services, outside the borders of Hungary and abroad. The amendment would extend the powers of the police to take epidemiological measures in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, which would give the police the right to take measures to restrict the circulation of public areas, for example, and public institutions, in order to ensure the activities of public authorities. As you can see, the Ministry of Interior and the Government remain fully committed to the effective, but always in line with the rule of law and fully in line with the rules of international law, and to guarantee Hungary's legal order and public security, which, however, would be significantly hampered or significantly delayed by the lack of legal instruments provided by this bill. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to support and accept the bill in the light of its objectives and the interests of Hungary. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2015-09-21-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ágh, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee, within a three-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee held on 9 September discussed the proposal and expressed its support. The committee considered the bill appropriate under the Rules of the House 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not support the proposals for amendments to the bill, but expressed its own intention to amend it, so an amendment closing a detailed debate was tabled. The National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed debate on 9 September. Dear Parliament, At the time that 225 thousand illegal immigrants arrived in our country this year, when, during the national consultation, people clearly decided that the country should be protected, we cannot be helpless. Hungary has no choice but to ensure the protection of its external borders, and to do so it must take all the necessary steps. We must ensure the Hungarian and Schengen borders so that uncontrolled, unidentified people do not flow to our country and the European Union without any organization or order. In principle, the motion by the Members of the Council seeks to protect and protect the military, while at the same time stating that, in its involvement with the police, it cannot detract from its tasks and powers. For example, the new driver's license for the defence is to stop motor vehicles on the road, and soldiers, like police officers' rights, are authorised to cover the site, close the area and use coercive devices. Soldiers can only use their weapons to protect their own lives or the lives of their peers, as well as the lives of their collaborators. It is also important to point out that soldiers should not sit in barracks in such a situation, but should help protect the borders of our country, and this is what the bill allows. So we can protect the country with the army. The police law would also be amended to allow the authority to carry out foreign reconnaissance activities in the fight against smugglers. In addition, the police could be involved in emergency emergency measures with another change. On the basis of the majority opinion of the Defence and Police Committee, we consider this proposal to be suitable for a general debate and we propose that this House adopt it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, who will present the Commission's minority opinion. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Once again, the authors came up with a list, saying that 41 people who prevented this law from being passed in one day would be ashamed of themselves. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] What they still do not tell people - that they are now silent or lying, I leave it to everyone's discretion - is that we are here today and we are going to vote on the fact that you have rewritten about half of this law in the last week and a half. You wanted to accept this in one day, while today we are going to vote that you have tabled a lot of amendments because you have admitted that what we have said is true. For example, the fact that the Defence and Police Committee will jointly propose to the police the possibility that without a search Go into the apartment of Hungarian people. It is true that, according to both the LMP and Jobbik and the MSZP text, this proposal has been submitted, and it is clear that Fidesz will not support the opposition amendment, since this would be a gesture very far from the genesis, but it will ultimately be adopted as a Commission amendment. Then we have the proposal that you have put into this law, which is the greatest admission of how far you have not thought through this law, which makes it clear that the soldier's obligation to use weapons, that is to say, his statutory order of fire, is not in this situation. You would have passed this law in one day without this paragraph as a draft, and you could have looked out of your mind at every soldier and its commander, how to implement this law. However, the most important question is that, on the basis of this procedure, you have bypassed the Constitution and created a state of emergency which does not correspond to today's constitutional conditions, this proposal does not give an answer. Every three weeks we have said that we would be partners in resolving this in a constitutional, legal way, and that even the Constitution would be amended, the MSZP partner would be even with its vote. In order to make it clear to everyone, the MSZP is in favour of helping the police to keep the border, but this proposal, my fellow Members, is inadequate because it is against the law and because it creates an unclear legal situation for our soldiers; the more dangerous it is for soldiers and policemen to carry out this task in legal uncertainty, there is no rightful Hungarian representative to contribute to it. The MSZP will therefore abstain from the final vote. And, ladies and gentlemen, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, I say to you and to the Minister, it is a shame that the government, although in words and here the Prime Minister, thankes the soldiers serving there with superhuman performance and the police, while in recent weeks the government has been unable to guarantee their most basic care. You have a dog's duty to take care of these people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who work day and night at the border and are working to protect Hungarian people! Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. In the course of this debate, I would like to inform you that a two-minute speech is not possible. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group, will be taking the floor.
u2015-09-21-63	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In fact, the bill that lies before Parliament asks the House to support the most obvious proposal, namely that when Hungary's borders are under extreme threat, when there is an immigration emergency, which no one can deny, the Hungarian Defence Office should be able to participate in the defence of the Hungarian borders. If it is complicated for anyone, it is really difficult to do what could be more fundamental to the Hungarian Defence Service than to protect the Hungarian borders. The fact that the Hungarian borders were attacked is fortunately not armed, but it is an attack, because the person who saw the effective attack on Röszke from the Serbian side, which, fortunately, did not lead to tragedy because of the very great self-discipline of the Hungarian defence, Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian civil servants, because they did not sit up for provocation, because they responded in absolute proportion to all the brutal actions, really because they were prepared people at the border. But we know that the only way that the soldiers' involvement could be achieved was that they were actually legally at the border in a military exercise and could help the police work because they were practicing it. But who is difficult to understand that one of the fundamental tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office is to protect Hungarian borders, it is really difficult to do with it. During the committee's meeting, we heard very combatant speeches from the socialists and the Hungarian liberal dwarf parties about why this is outrageous, why it seriously endangers Hungarian citizens - explain to me how it should be understood - why it is unconstitutional, why it ignores all the regulations that establish existing human rights and European standards. By the way, this was not revealed, they were just branching out, as if it were quite obvious that the soldiers would act as armed service, because otherwise, the one who would send soldiers to the border without a weapon in such a situation is really difficult to do. I would add that, of course, this armed service is so surrounded by all kinds of security elements that, with reason at all, it cannot be assumed that soldiers would not be able to do so. Just as an example, to make it clear to everyone, soldiers would have no more or less authority in the provision of armed service than those provided by the traffic cop, by the way, with a sidearm on his belt. And I would add that the Hungarian citizen, although the Hungarian police officer is authorized to use his weapon, if any, in the course of his service, but this is surrounded by such guarantee elements that it is obvious that Hungarian citizens do not think that the policeman, when he stops him when he is parked illegally or when he drives through the red light, will shoot him. [[15.20]] In fact, you know exactly, because there is also an example of this, that even if the Hungarian citizen is aggressive against him, he does not do this. In fact, we know from the practice that the same rules apply to the policeman and the soldier, and even then it is an amazing investigation, procedure, and quite rightly, I would add, that there is a gun-using policeman at risk, if, by the way, he shoots in the air in the event of an attack by a crowd that is capable of attacking him with a weapon or an object capable of endangering life. But this life is itself. This has been proven countless times by the Hungarian guarantee system, the preparedness of the Hungarian police and the rule system that solves this. Therefore, the alarm that the socialists and liberal dwarf parties have done, that the Hungarian soldiers will shoot with their mass at the border, is simply the most primitive panicking. For the record, those who are a little used to Hungarian public life can expect nothing less from the socialists. Here, I add, the Hungarian soldiers are prepared. [[Zoltán Lukács: They're better prepared than you, that's for sure!]] They're trained. They know exactly what to do. They know perfectly well that their actions must be proportionate. They know that, because this is what they do when they are prepared for this ministry, and they practice it now. This is evidence, so it is unacceptable that with this whole solution the Hungarian people would be exposed to any kind of danger. On the contrary! [[Zoltán Lukács: Come back, Toni!]] The task of the Hungarian Army is to protect the Hungarian people, and it is still better to do so at the border, and to help the police, because the law says nothing but that the Hungarian Defence Office can be used to help the police's work. The Hungarian Army will not take over the work of the Hungarian police in this immigration emergency. But the need for help in the country is certain. It could even be asked what the socialists think of the situation in which the Hungarian Defence Office should be asked if not in such a situation. I think you can do this job very well. This is necessary, and I very much hope that the sober-thinking majority of the Hungarian Parliament understands that there is an obvious asylum emergency, it is obvious that Hungary is making efforts to comply with the Schengen Convention, is making efforts to comply with international standards and is making efforts to comply with the Dublin Protocols. So it's not some self-indulgent or some kind of Hungarian expansion, on the contrary: we're trying to comply with the conventions. The other issue is that, interestingly, the socialists are now going against it, and all the measures that are clearly aimed at complying with these international rules are being criticised, refuted, not done, and are making all clearly impossible proposals. Of course, it would be easier for the socialists to take their opinions face-to-face and say, please, that Hungary does not need to comply with the following international and European Union legislation and give a list. This could at least be interpreted, and we would say that children, with us the opposition, say that we should adopt a position that does not have to comply with different international laws. But there is no courage to do so, just where they say, even in the middle of the summer, many of the socialists are saying that there is no immigration threat at all, and that is only because the Hungarian government wants to distract attention from the problems I do not know what. I'm sure... [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] Or they claim that immigration does not in any way interfere with the everyday life of Hungarian citizens, and otherwise it does not have to be dealt with. It's obviously insane. I would also like to ask the socialists, if any, to side with the case of the protection of the Hungarian people, to stand in favour of the issue of the protection of the Hungarian borders, and do not hesitate to abstain when the question is whether we are defending the Hungarian borders or not, and whether or not we ask the Hungarian Defence Office to contribute to this, but feel free to press a very button when answering the question that yes, the Hungarian borders must be protected, yes, international conventions must be respected, yes, the Hungarian Defence Office can be involved in such a case in absolute legal, constitutionally and in accordance with the rules of common sense. Please consider this support. Maybe they'll stand up for the protection of Hungarian interests. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. By the way, before you begin, Mr President, I respectfully ask my fellow Members, there is a time-frame of negotiations, and everyone has the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much for your understanding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-65	Mr President, Dear House, When we continue this debate, the alphahir.hu news portal is in front of me, the number of illegal immigrants arriving this year is 242 477. This figure alone justifies the fact that Jobbik's earlier statements were correct, that it was possible to go in two directions, even at the same time, to suspend registration, in order to prevent the mass of deportations and to prevent the hermetic closure of the border, so that no one could approach us illegally. It has been said that, in addition to closing the border section of Serbia, there is a huge need to ensure the other sections of the Schengen border. This alone cannot be done with police forces, it is obvious that the extension that lies before us can be justified and correct in its direction. However, what we need to see is that the fence, the physical border lock, could only be effective enough in its entirety. It is impossible to achieve results, even with living human resources it is very difficult to secure an incomplete structure. In the long term, however, we need to see that the major debates of the future, which the Fidesz-KDNP has tried to smear today, will decide what we will do with quota-like solutions and how the Government of Hungary will react to return. In both cases, Jobbik enforces the zero tolerance principle. We are not saying that these debates must take place later, and it must now be made clear that Hungary's fate should not be decided in international courts, rather than on the basis of Brussels dictators, but that we should now make clear what Hungary is not doing. At the same time, we must add what lies before us, a request for a mandate to use more forces. Jobbik not only proposes to spread these frameworks in the spirit of the year of volunteering, but also to promote them in such a way that in Hungary, who has the right qualifications, medical, engineering and nursing qualifications, where appropriate, he can participate in border protection as a citizen on a voluntary basis. We therefore call on the government to work out the framework that, in the form of voluntary organisation, as many Hungarian people as possible, who feel a community, who feel an intention in this direction, are able to start, and, where appropriate, to take part in border protection, in cooperation with the state, of course. Nor can the symbolic value of this be estimated, but it would be a message for people living in Asotthalom, Röszke or in the Baranya region or in the farmland world that they are not only assisted by public bodies, but that citizens are also helped by their fellow citizens if there is a problem. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, An independent Member, László Varju, has also applied for his speech in writing. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-09-21-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We would like to make it clear that military deployment is not a solution, but can only make sacrifices. Therefore, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition will vote against your initiative, even because the untenable refugee policy of the Orbán government has today reached the point of bringing together the extreme right to pass a law that the army is needed here. [[István Apáti: Pity!]] Instead of a fair asylum procedure, information, temporary care, fast registration, only a baton and tear gas were available to all those who turned to Hungary for help. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Répássy Robert: Happy István: 2006!]] But from your point of view, [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] Now we're ready for the sharp weapons. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that if a government can brand people and even groups of people by calling anyone a terrorist, [[Peter Hoppál: 2006!]] "Then tomorrow you will use unthinkingly crowding people, the young men who have recently been sent there, into this zone. During the deployment of soldiers, there is only one overreach that can trigger an avalanche that may result in damage to the area. [[15.30]] If they cause innocent people to die, then the greater your responsibility. I must therefore also draw attention to the fact that everything you do is unconstitutional and tricked, as Congressman Kósa has said here, to consider what you consider to be a military exercise to protect your country. You must also be responsible for your actions. And tonight, the Democratic Coalition is protesting with a live chain. [[There's a lot of noise on the pro-government side and on Jobbik lines.]] And a lot of people against your actions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[István Apáti: Shame!]]
u2015-09-21-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novák, Jobbik Group, has also applied in writing for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-09-21-69	Dear Parliament, We call for national cooperation in this crisis, obviously due to the European Union on the one hand and government delays on the other. Let's just think that Jobbik started collecting signatures six months ago, collecting hundreds of thousands of signatures to restore the border guard. We are glad that, although Jobbik first raised the need to contribute to border protection in August, Fidesz still condemned this proposal, but not much, we could say a few days later, but it was at the forefront of it. We are also pleased that our criticism has been accepted that a fence cannot be built with open entry gates being used by police as a sort of uniformed receptionist in those weeks only to get immigrants in. And we predicted that it would be extremely humiliating to use them for such a role in the face of the soldiers. In addition to the fact that this fence does not mean anything to the Hungarians, it does not mean any protection if they are allowed to enter these gates freely. We're glad the gates are closed and illegal immigrants are finally being held back. However, we have some other proposals, and we would like them to be taken in the same way. One is that we should also call home the soldiers serving foreign interests, our soldiers from Afghanistan and other occupations. We would also like to see that in the year of volunteering, at least now we consider our proposal to base it more widely on volunteers. Whether it is organisations such as the previously dissolved Hungarian Guard, we would, of course, need all these forces under government control, supervision and control, which you reject. Yet, we can see that they have not been able to cope for time, and we can now see that there is a lack of labour at different borders. On the basis of all this, I have come to the conclusion that if such civilian volunteering forces are no longer supported, such an opportunity is not provided, then I will apply to the voluntary reserve fund. I'm volunteering to be an operational reserve manager tomorrow, and I've already contacted the Metropolitan recruitment office today to discuss the details of this. Of course, I am also trying to understand the aspects of all those who are now besieging our borders or living here as immigrants, to whom the government was trying to ensure resettlement, when it had already appointed schools for their children, when it wanted to grant them 59 thousand work permits, when it wanted to build more and more resettlement camps in Martonfa, for example, from which the government also backed off our pressure. We're very happy for you. However, I have seen my volunteer work at the Bicske immigrant colony, and especially when we did volunteer work on the whole Jobbik fraction in Digotthal, repairing our living space, repairing the living space that the immigrants have destroyed that there is no other solution, we have to stop them at the border. I am very sorry that, as it appeared in one of the reports of the Index, it may not be true that some of the Honvéds were able to complain, complain about food, lack of supplies, and even cold in the days of August, which may have been, but my two-year-old son already knows what a military thing is. Therefore, I think it is time to set an example in the year of volunteering, and it is time to take action instead of the various spats, to provide room for the national cooperation that we have long advocated. That is why we are confident that our various amendments will be considered here, whether it is primarily about not taking our Hungarian soldiers abroad and taking foreigners away from us, even if, at American pressure, they want to deploy new forces or instruments. We don't want to be targets, let's protect our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a written speech. I'll give you the floor at a time frame of one minute and 55 seconds.
u2015-09-21-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must respond to the words of Congressman Varju. I don't know whose boss called the entire Saudi Arabian football team a terrorist at the time in the spirit of collective guilt. Talk to your own boss before making irresponsible statements in the House of the Country. On the other hand, they were not so afraid of violence when, in 2006, they were shot among Hungarian patriots with rubber bullets and chemical gases of different compositions that might exhaust certain Btk.-fact positions. They did not squeamish when Hungarian soldiers had to be sent to military theatres, and this had to be voted out, which had nothing to do with us in the world to participate in the theatres. Please explain to me once before that someone from the left or members of the liberal nano-party may say that, in principle, a Hungarian representative - a politician who is Hungarian, speaking Hungarian, but not representing Hungarian interests - will vote for a Hungarian soldier to risk his life under Western interests and Western flags, but not to vote for the Hungarian soldier to defend Hungarian country, Hungarian life, Hungarian security and Hungarian interests on Hungarian soil. This shows that treason is in the blood of a real Hungarian liberal. You have to say that. They are Hungarian haters at cell level! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] The other issue I would like to address to the ruling parties is that we are afraid of a quiet resettlement. Because what about integrated school education? In what institutions is this going on, why have they ordered a statement stop in these institutions? That's what we want to know. We would like to have an answer to the NGM regulation that can provide jobs for 59 thousand third countries, and we would also like the new Minister of Defence to answer whether they can also protect the Hungarian-Romanian border section, as we have strong suspicion that this pressure will shift from the Serbian-Romanian border section to the Hungarian-Romanian border crossing points. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. It is now up to its representatives to address the time frame available. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group. [[Lajos Kósa: Thank you, I would not take the opportunity.]] Congressman indicates that he no longer wishes to speak. Statement by Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-73	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian Democrats see that, although our country has been the only Member State in recent months that has taken the EU's common rules seriously, they are still criticising us. One of the issues to be decided is, therefore, whether the European conventions are still in place. If the answer is yes, strict compliance with the rules must also protect the EU's external borders and Hungary's borders, otherwise we will all pay the price. Ladies and Gentlemen, It cannot be the international community's goal that all Syrians leave Syria. The position of the Christian Democrats is that on a political level, we must strive to make Syria a viable place to live again, and we must talk about how to stop the refugee invasion. Refugee flows threaten European identity because migrants see better living conditions in Europe, but do not want to change their attitude and culture. The fact is that despite the efforts of Western governments for nearly half a century, parallel societies have developed because they have failed to integrate immigrant communities. [[15.40]] The demographic difference between immigrants and the indigenous population in Europe is so great that if we allow them into the continent without limit, there will soon be more of us Christians. Their supply is unlimited. Christian Democrats are not anti-Islamic. In fact, we believe that members of the Muslim community in our country are valuable people. We want Hungary to continue to be a Christian nation on its own thousand-year journey, and multiculturalism should be only its own. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democrats support T/5985. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you five minutes, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kósa is currently calling, as is the importance of the subject, and I would like to address some thoughts to him. Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] One of them: I do not really understand it, but also on behalf of my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, why there is such an uproar here, that the opposition would have prevented anything, because in the last two weeks they have already started their military movements without a parliamentary sanction. There was no need for law. In fact, they went all the way to Simicskó, now Minister, wishing him good work, it was not his fault, but he gave instructions that he did not take the oath in Parliament, and did not sign the oath. These formalities don't bother you. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Read the law.]] You, Commissioner Budai, I will finish... I may not have been a soldier, but that you, in turn, have passed legislation... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - that you didn't read the law often, that's for sure. Shame on the man who gave you a degree. [[Fidesz benches. Fidesz benches. Dr. Répássy, Róbert: There's no need to insult everyone.]] Dear Parliament, The fact is, in the last two weeks, you have not been disturbed by the fact that the law has not yet been passed by Parliament. Nor did it bother you that we have made it clear from many of the opposition that this amendment could have been tabled in a way that at the same time it was proposed to amend the Fundamental Law. They didn't. The situation is not as my colleague Kósa said. The Hungarian Fundamental Law and, accordingly, the law on police and defence clearly separates the duties of law enforcement and defence. It is not so in all countries, it is so in Hungary, it was before April 2011, and it has been so ever since. Therefore, it would have been possible to amend the Fundamental Law. However, there is not only a constitutional problem. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I asked the State Secretary whether, at least at the same time as the bill, they had begun to prepare the soldiers or the soldiers on the border for police duties. We didn't get enough information. [[Interview from Fidesz: But we got it.]] The problem here is not just that, although I think it is also a problem if the laws of the government or the laws of the Fundamental Law do not comply with them; the problem is that they are not trained to carry out police duties. And there's one more thing I think is worth talking about here, in this closing debate. When it came to Hungarian military participation in northern Kurdistan a few months ago, and, if I remember correctly, perhaps right-wing fellow Members raised the increase in security risks due to military involvement, we received the answer from both the socialist side and the pro-government side that we should not worry unnecessarily, there is no risk increase. After all, they have also added that these terrorist organisations are basically carrying out assassinations there, starting terrorist acts that are, so to speak, at the heart of the world's attention. My respectful question to the new Minister is whether they are holding their statements in March-April. There really is no terrorist risk, has there not been an increase in the threat of terrorism in Hungary? And the events of the past few weeks, the chaotic images of Hungary that visited the world press, didn't you think they increased Hungary's security threat? And so much for the spring debate that Hungary really has to take part in the elimination of the causes, but Hungary is able to take part in the elimination of the causes not primarily with its defence policy and not with its defences, but, for example, if international development resources are not as shameful and unprecedentedly low as in the 2016 budget, a total of HUF 26 million. This tells us all about how serious you are about eliminating the causes. Yes, the reasons are that Hungary has been involved in the war policy, which was actually about the abduction of natural resources instead of spreading democracy, over the past 15 years, about the violent expropriation of resources. We should face this once too, Minister. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-09-21-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in the time frame available.
u2015-09-21-77	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, it was quite difficult for me to hear Mr Kósa's speech, who, compared to the chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, spoke about military and constitutionality at roughly a school level; at about the level that military uncles have one job to do to protect Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Teach us, Gregory, teach us!]] Perhaps it is more complicated than that, Congressman Kósa. First of all, I think you can thank the opposition for the fact that we did not vote for a derogation from house rules at the time. If we had done this, then, as my fellow Member Mr Harangozó said, you would have voted for the original proposal in the final vote and could not have plagiarized the opposition amendment proposals and now presented them to Parliament as their own. This will at least clarify the difference between the rights and opportunities of the police and the military to use weapons. In other words, it did not remain in the law that, in certain situations of life, which, let's say, in war conditions, are natural, the military is obliged to use the weapon, while the police are actually subject to completely different rules. However, there are still a number of pending issues and problems that we will not be able to support. I do not wish to repeat my colleague Tamás Harangozó here. However, honourable Member Kósa, I would like for you to at least try to understand the arguments that we have put forward regarding constitutionality. Because you must know our professional arguments very well, since you refused them with enviable confidence. I would like to hear a few words about where, from a professional point of view, he disputes the items that I myself have formulated in the last debate here in Parliament; the essence of which is, in effect, that you have created a concept of art, a new concept of crisis that triggers an emergency. It also limits fundamental rights, and that is to circumvent the provisions of the Fundamental Law. Because you have been deprived of two-thirds support by the voters, you are now trying to avoid a half of what could otherwise only be regulated by a two-thirds law. This is the problem, Mr Kósa, and I hope that you will contradict what I am saying with professional arguments, because otherwise what you said in your speech seems rather superficial. This is all the more interesting, my fellow Members, because we have said it more than once, even today, but also weeks ago, that we very much miss the five-party consultation on this subject, and there was only one not held. What is more, when we told you that, constitutionally, we would be partners with certain changes, such as the creation of military capabilities, or with our own vote to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law in this respect, you have not even responded to this suggestion, either previously or now, in this debate. [[15.50]] I'd like to ask you why. Because the answer comes to me: then you are the kind of confrontation that you have been playing with the Hungarian public for months, that you are on the side of the Hungarians, and everyone else is the immigrants. [[György Balla: That's right!]] And who knows whose side they're on, they couldn't represent you anymore. It is possible that there is a proposal for a solution that the opposition also supports. But if they don't try, even if they don't sit down and agree that if they don't try to hold any five-party negotiations, if they find a completely deaf ear to the proposals with which we are bombing Parliament with good intentions and looking for a solution to this problem, then I think it's unfortunate to expect that the package of proposals you have put together and that we think it's not professionally appropriate, we will vote in a servile manner. Well, we will not do it, Mr honourable Member, despite the fact that we consider this to be a serious problem, and we are still waiting for your openness in this regard, so that they may be able to agree with the opposition. Perhaps, honourable Member, then I would lose the position that you are only the saviors of this country, because others may have good ideas, but perhaps this sacrifice would be worth it if we could find and accept an effective solution that can be supported by everyone here in Parliament. So this kind of thing, I'll say it again, artificial contrast, I think it's fake. And the fact that you are unable to put professional arguments behind your own position is, frankly, pathetic. Ladies and gentlemen, One thought is no longer worth the speech by Mr Apáti, but, you know, yes, there is a certain limit. You, good Members, have repeatedly explained that, if not with sharp ammunition, you would be happy to see the soldiers shoot into the crowd. [[Moore, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And we do not welcome you, fellow Members. We would not welcome it if children were to be water-cannoned; we do not welcome it when children are drugged with tear gas; we do not welcome it when these events... [[There's a lot of noise, interference from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] become violent. [[Gyula Budai: 2006!]] Ladies and gentlemen, You are promoting these solutions, and we are neither partner nor partner in these solutions, and we consider it an inhuman and intolerable solution. [[Máriusz Révész: Only against Hungarians!]] And the fact that you're questioning the patriotism of a faction, we're asking for it. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-78	Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There is no order of business. He wants to answer.]]
u2015-09-21-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For the sake of clarification, historical loyalty and record keeping: we did not say a word in committee or plenary...
u2015-09-21-80	Congressman, there is no debate.
u2015-09-21-81	Because of personal involvement... [[Nándor Gúr: How personal is it?]]
u2015-09-21-82	Because of personal involvement, you have the opportunity to say it in a minute. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-83	All right. So no one's ever said we should shoot the innocent with live ammo. No one ever said that they should shoot women or children with machine guns to support infantry. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Didn't he say where you got it from?]] Indeed, we were talking about other coercive measures, but of course this must happen within the framework of legality. By the way, Congressman Barándy walked into a trap I didn't really set, but he created it for himself. I was talking about liberals, classic extreme liberals, liberal Nazis, actually. [[Defiance in the ranks of independents behind MSZP and Jobbik.]] Not necessarily on them [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Or I was thinking MSZP. [[It's a lot of noise.]] But taking this on isn't my problem. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-84	Congressman, if you'll excuse yourself, you're going to start a process that I'm going to have to refuse from here. Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Minister for Defence, asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-09-21-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to react briefly to some things. On the one hand, on the other hand, I would like to say, on the other hand, that it is true, as it was before, that Mr Bárándy, Mr XX, at the end of the year. in the Constitution, has not changed - at least basically - the qualified period legal order. Thus, the special legal order is aware of the five cases of emergency, emergency, emergency, preventive protection situation and unexpected armed attack. The emergency situation remains virtually the same as before, which, of course, concerns natural and industrial disasters in the first place. So, because of the crisis situation that mass immigration has caused, we have the legal position that it is sufficient to settle in a half law and to find a new crisis legal environment that will bring about the solution. So we value this by not emptying the category of emergency and not filling it in or replacing this new situation caused by the migrant situation. [[Gábor István bellozó: It is regulated by the Fundamental Law, isn't it?]] This is important because, among other things, if we approach the issue from the point of view of the restriction of freedoms, it is important here, of course, in the case of a special legal order, to be at the level of fundamental law, because indeed, the freedoms of Hungarian citizens can be limited if such cases are declared in the event of war or natural, industrial disaster or even internal armed rebellion. However, this is a completely new situation, a completely different situation, here the restriction of the freedom of the Hungarian people is not fundamentally violated and cannot stand up. Of course, certain restrictions may be introduced and applied in an operational area. The other thing that Congressman Schiffer raised. I would like to say that the decisive action in 2015 is a military exercise and practice for this purpose, so that Hungarian soldiers can prepare themselves to carry out the new types of tasks due to the legislative amendment. So, without training or training, no one is involved in this task. And for the threat of terrorism, let me say that, yes, I do not think there is much of a security policy expert in Europe today, but I do not think there is, in the world, a credible one who does not say that there has been an increase in the threat of terrorism in Europe as a result of mass migration. No one can say today in Europe and elsewhere exactly how many potential terrorists have entered Europe because of this, and this has unfortunately increased Europe's exposure and threat. Obviously, the Hungarian police, the experts of the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Hungarian soldiers will take all necessary measures to eliminate terrorists or potential terrorists, and our experts will perform them beyond their power. But I believe that no one can deny that, unfortunately, Europe's terrorist threat has increased. Thank you very much, that is all I wanted to add to the debate. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-86	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group; 2 minutes 17 seconds.
u2015-09-21-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your reply, I have two comments. One is that it is not important to limit fundamental rights on the basis of legal terminology, but to limit to what extent and then to what extent the specific legal order has ex post control. What I'm saying is that at least with regard to post-control... First of all, Minister, he acknowledged - and was absolutely right to acknowledge it, because it is true - that fundamental rights are restricted here, not by an emergency but by a crisis. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Operations area.]] In the event of a crisis, the possibilities for ex post control are even more limited than in the event of an emergency, despite the fact that fundamental rights are severely restricted. Moreover, this period can be significantly longer, with an order of magnitude longer, without the Parliament having control over it, without the government having the power to extend it in its own power, without parliamentary approval. This, in substance, means that we are actually talking about a special legal order as defined in the Fundamental Law, a situation that should be appreciated. The renaming of you, using another concept for this phenomenon, does not justify that these provisions of the Fundamental Law should not be applied to it. If so, then only a two-thirds law could create another such situation for Parliament, and I also note that in the Fundamental Law there is a much stricter control mechanism than the rules on crisis situations. The only reason I don't understand this is why they don't do it, and why they don't act legally, and let me say that they act in an unquestionably constitutional manner, because, once again, the opposition would be a partner in this, and would be a partner in the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Therefore, I do not understand why iron rings should be made, why a questionable constitutional proposal should be put forward and voted on by Parliament when it would otherwise be possible to adopt a purely legitimate proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Balla, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. I'll give you the floor at the expense of the time frame available. [[16.00]]
u2015-09-21-89	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, We have gone in many directions here in this debate. I just want an approach, and I would like to strengthen the bill by saying that in Central Europe, the military's involvement in migration and illegal immigration is present in several countries. For example, in the Czech Republic in recent days, the Minister of Defence has stated that if the current number of 6 to 7 thousand immigrants will increase significantly in the next period, a thousand soldiers will be deployed within 48 hours for border police and border protection tasks. If you look at Austria, the military basically provides logistics background, support background, registration and administrative background for Austrian law enforcement organisations. Basically in Hungary, let's think - we also mean the Austrians, and in the case of the Czechs, where they are afraid of the size of ten thousand, while more than 200 thousand immigrants arrived and passed through Hungary - more people pass through the country every day than in the Czech Republic in the last few days, but they still add the help of the military to the law enforcement organisations. I think - while the military, the military, is very important, the first task of defence of the country, the protection of borders can be included - and, as the Minister said, it is very important in Hungary that the defence, which is prepared for this task, has the means and permissions of law enforcement, helps the work of the staff of the Immigration Office. I think that this is important not only in Hungary, but, as we can see, also increasingly in other countries of Europe. Due to the scale, the numbers and the increase in the immigration wave, there are basically thoughts and decisions in other countries that the military helps law enforcement organisations and the police. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would also like to support the bill, precisely because, in fact, the law enforcement agencies and the Immigration Office staff at all who are working on the protection of the border today could provide enormous help and a huge background if the defence tasks of the defence were to include their ability to play an active role in border protection. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-90	Thank you, Congressman Balla. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence, Fidesz.
u2015-09-21-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to highlight one or two other points regarding the bill. Here we have just asked a question that we should change, because it has been suggested that when we voted here in Parliament about adopting this legislation by way of house rules, we voted on whether we should discuss this at all in such an urgent way or not. So, by Gergely Bárándy earlier, we have been asked how we would have adopted this legislation, what amendments we would have adopted, are completely unjustified and pointless in this context, because you have said no in the situation where we are discussing this legislation at all urgently and quickly, so not to the amendments. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's not true! Zoltán Grimlock: We would have voted on it that day!]] It is not that the legislation has not been voted, but that it has been said not to vote in such a procedural order. Returning to the other question, which obviously concerns not only this legislation, but also the previous legislation, which concerns the procedure, whether this procedure is constitutional or not constitutional. The special legal order applies to specific cases as defined in the Constitution. Some guarantees are also missing, as there is also a change in the legislative process when such a legal order comes into force, not only on the enforcement side. So in this case, when a situation arises - and there are other cases in the Hungarian legal order, so in the case of a health crisis, for example, when another case arises [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Two thirds...!]] In this other case, the law is applied differently in its temporary form. Indeed, the question is whether, in such a case, a guarantee system is in place and the appropriate guarantees are in place. This is why this legislation has been designed so that the guarantee part otherwise meets the warranty requirements. Accordingly, we take the view that speeding up certain procedures or applying them differently, or, let us say, municipal real estate, does not in itself constitute a violation of fundamental rights which would require a constitutional amendment or two-thirds of the legislation in which this type of restriction may take place. So our position in this regard is that this legislation is constitutional in this composition as well. It would have been necessary for us to discuss this package even more quickly in this context, and we can already accept that border protection will be fully available earlier. This didn't happen fast enough, but it'll still be created. As regards the other part, it is of the utmost importance that we consider this to be constitutional, and in order to be particularly meticulous, the various procedures are regulated here in order to comply with the rules of constitutionality. Of course, this falls within the competence of the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court can judge this, if appropriate, but our position is that it is a constitutional and a well-functioning, good law, and the legislation to be adopted now will also be a necessary and good law. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate in the remaining two minutes and 29 seconds. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] Yes, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh.
u2015-09-21-93	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I have recently found that the bravest and loudest in military matters are those who were not soldiers because of some incompetence or good comradeship. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Well, the defence at the Serbian-Hungarian border, as the Minister said, has taken part in the 2015 and the decisive action, and I would also like to tell you that the Minister of Defence cannot instruct the army, and only the Chief of Staff has the authority to do so. The crisis caused by mass immigration, as many have noted here, is not at all the same as the extraordinary or emergency or state of war, but, in a normal state, a response to a crisis in our country, and to this we define the technical means, the human resources, the funds, the legal categories, the laws that we expect to deal with this situation in some form. The law before us - just like the laws we have adopted so far - complies with both the Fundamental Law and international conventions, so first of all with the Schengen Convention, Dublin III. The treaty and the Geneva Convention at all. Last but not least, I would like to inform you now for many times - you can see this - that people have decided, that people have decided that we must protect the country, the borders of the country and the borders of the European Union; that is what the bill is about. With all due respect, I would like my fellow Members to vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-94	Thank you, Member István Németh Szilárd. Dear Parliament, The decision will now be the first to take place between the decisions. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, It is therefore up to T/5985 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the better protection of Hungary's state border and the management of mass immigration. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote on the legislative proposal No. T/5985/11. No. T/5985/12 and its summary report. by serial number. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That is what we decide first. Amendment 3 is therefore the motion of András Schiffer, a qualified majority being required for the reservation. [[16.10]] So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 151 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 1, 2 and 4 of this Decision require a qualified majority, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5985/11. points requiring a qualified majority of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 178 votes in favour, 12 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5985/11. Points requiring a simple majority of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 178 votes in favour, 12 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/5985/14. The cardinality provision of a single proposal with a serial number sets out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5985/14. The provisions of a single proposal with a serial number number requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, 12 against and 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5985/14. the provisions of a single proposal with a serial number requiring a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 150 votes in favour, 12 against and 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. The immunity committee shall be the 31st of the Central District Court of Buda. Bpk. 646/2015. H/6211 at the request of a serial number Antal Rogán presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of MP Rogán. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2015-09-21-95	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 31 of the Central District Court of Buda Bpk. 646/2015. In his transcript No.3 he proposed the suspension of the immunity of a Member of Parliament, Antal Rogán, on the basis of the complaint by Dr. György Szilvásy. According to Dr. György Szilvásy's report, Antal Rogán issued the following statement on the 2nd of December 2014 on the MTI's way:, I did not meet Tamás Portik regularly, but Ferenc Gyurcsány's former Minister of Secrets, György Szilvásy. In this case, too, the two socialist politicians must be contacted by those who want to know where the wind blows. Antal Rogán also noted that there is evidence in the form of audio recordings that György Szilvásy himself commissioned Tamás Portik to bring down leading Fidesz politicians. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Antal Rogán recalled that his name was also mentioned. György Szilvásy denounced Antal Rogán at the crime of defamation on the grounds of the above allegations, that they are capable of defamation of the facts and false facts cited above. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 15 September 2015. The motion to suspend immunity was not received by the majority during the vote of the immunity committee, so the proposal for a resolution is not to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary Member Antal Rogán in the given case. I have one more matter to report to you, ladies and gentlemen. The Central District Court of Buda... [[For signal:]] Separate? Okay, thank you.
u2015-09-21-96	Thank you very much. I will ask Congressman Antal Rogán if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Antal Rogán says no.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would therefore remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Mr Antal Rogán. Please vote now. [[Vote. Ancestors of Novak: Everyone is equal before the law!]] I declare the resolution: Parliament does not suspend the immunity of Congressman Rogán Antal by 26 votes in favour, 153 against and one abstention. [[Sorry, no.]] Dear Parliament, The immunity committee at the request of the Central District Court of Buda H/623. Mr István Szilárd Németh, Member of Parliament, submitted a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2015-09-21-97	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 31 of the Central District Court of Buda Bpk. 646/2015. István Szilvásy Németh, a Member of the Parliament, proposed the suspension of his immunity on the basis of the complaint of György Szilvásy. According to György Szilvasy's report, István Németh Szilvásy said on the 1st of December 2014 in the News TV program:. The Tamás Portik received the assignment from the Szilvásys at the time of discrediting Fidesz politicians. It's pretty obvious to everyone, and here, by the way, they literally mentioned Antal Rogán. György Szilvasy also reported Szilvasy Németh as a violation of defamation on the grounds of these allegations. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 15 September 2015. In the absence of any powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act and did not examine the facts in this respect. His practice of upholding immunity in private cases aims to ensure the objective of immunity, the smooth working of Parliament and Members. [[16.20]] The motion to suspend immunity has not received a majority during the vote of the immunity committee, so the proposal for a resolution is not to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MEP István Németh Németh in the given case. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-98	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I will ask Mr István Szilárd Németh if he wishes to exercise his right to speak. [[Németh Szilárd István: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it suspends the immunity of Mr István Szilárd Németh, Member of Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote. Forebod Novak: Is everyone equal before the law? Dr. Répássy Róbert: Are you defending the Silvia or why are you yelling?]] I declare the resolution: Parliament does not suspend the immunity of István Németh with 25 votes in favour, 151 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, at 4:21 p.m., we're moving to the trial of immediate questions and interviews. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Such impertinence can be seen even from space? It's an address. I would like to ask Mr Burány whether, since the President cannot be present in response to an urgent public task, Vice-President Márton Nagy has appointed him to accept the person of the response. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2015-09-21-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I find it not acceptable that, while the country is facing serious challenges, today these institutions have four to five monthly payments, and sometimes seven million forints. Orbán said in the Parliament in 2010. The position in Fidesz has changed greatly since then. As a result, a decision was published in the Hungarian Gazette of 15 September 2015 on the basis of which the salaries of the managers of public companies should be increased. This may be a salary of HUF 5 million per month. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] And you can still get bonuses and other benefits. Dear House, I cannot accept the practice, and I find it particularly unspeakable, of the practice of a governing party, when it comes to the salary of people who have not yet been appointed by him, to whom he has not appointed, to limit their salary, in view of the interests of the country, when, by the way, his own people have to go to the register, to amend the rules he has introduced, and what the predecessors have not been allowed to do, to allow their own appointed ones, their friends, relatives and confidants. It's quite simply a shame. In a situation where, since Viktor Orbán's statement in 2010, thanks to the personal income tax policy applied by Fidesz, income poverty has not decreased but increased in the country, while you have enabled state leaders to receive a salary of up to five million. This is quite simply unacceptable behaviour. I ask the Vice-President why, while such a restriction was in place in 2010, this restriction has now been lifted for you. I look forward to your reply.
u2015-09-21-100	Thank you, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to Vice-President Martin the Great.
u2015-09-21-101	Thank you very much. As regards the Hungarian National Bank, I do not know how to remove such a restriction. The remuneration of the directors of the Hungarian National Bank is governed by the MNB Act, and accordingly, the salary of either the President or the Vice-President or the salary of the other members of the Monetary Council can be calculated in accordance with the law. This is 15 times the current average wage in the competition sector, which is at the moment HUF 2 million in terms of the President's salary, HUF 2 million gross, and in terms of the salary of the Vice-Presidents, for my salary, HUF 1.6 million, and HUF 1.4 million in terms of the salary of the other Vice-Presidents. The only reason I know this is because I'm the first vice president of the Central Bank since September 1st, and I got my new salary, which means I'm making 1.6 million forints. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Congressman Burány has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-09-21-103	Dear House, Mr. Vice President, I'll help you. For example, Péter Polt's wife earns nearly 5 million at the Hungarian National Bank, and even some of the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank make more money with their salaries and remuneration than the amount you have said. For example, Ádám Balog, Deputy Chairman of the Monetary Council, receives a grant from the Pallas Athena Foundation, a total of 2.9 million a month. With your salary, this is nearly HUF 5 million per month. Life denies your words every day. And an update, a company called Kasselik-Haza was created for 7.2 billion forints, in which your president planted his own relatives and confidants. This company has one goal: to buy another luxury office building in Vörösmarty Square according to the news, and, of course, at the Foundation's Board of Directors, to bring in a lot of money for the confidants, relatives and mates. Mr. Vice President. Put all these facts together.
u2015-09-21-104	Thank you very much. The Vice-President also has the opportunity to rejoinder. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Pay attention to the address.]]
u2015-09-21-105	As far as foundations are concerned [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Address! Mr. Honourable Congressman!]] As regards foundations, I can say that the National Bank is economically and legally separate from the National Bank, regardless of whether foundations operate, their specific decisions are not affected by the National Bank. The founder's licenses do not cover the monitoring of the specific activities of the foundations, the professional control is carried out by the Boards of Trustees and the legal control is carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, I would like to ask you to address such questions to the foundations, since once again, the foundations will decide on these issues. At the same time, of course, I have an opinion of my own, and it is my own opinion that I can share it with you, that as a personal opinion, foundations are building public wealth and working for a purpose that is education, which is a noble goal. They do not live up to their wealth, but they farm on the returns of wealth - this is a very, very important difference - and given the returns of wealth, if we look today at what returns they can achieve, if we look at a certain return on the sovereign debt market, it is very low... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]]
u2015-09-21-106	Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-107	...so they can support the doctoral school with higher returns than real estate purchases. [[The president's ringing again.]] Which I think is an important thing. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Are you willing to act, or are you going to turn a blind eye to everything? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-09-21-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I think we agree that corruption is one of the most serious problems of Hungarian public life and the national economy. This is what we have come to, all the governing parties, all the leading politicians of the last 25 years, have, if not on an equal scale, but a shared and inexorable responsibility. Corruption is nothing more than spiritual prostitution, which differs from classical prostitution by the fact that the actors are selling their good morals and basic human values, not their bodies. It is certain that there is a very low chance of fully eliminating it, but to significantly reduce it, reduce it, we would have all the means and opportunities we have if you wanted to do the same and you supported it. I would like to mark three main directions for you now, Prime Minister. One of them is the outsourcing of activities with outstanding profit-generating potential to a narrow circle, such as the decapitation of a Trafikkutyi or, for example, the outsourcing of machines to Andy Vajna's large business and similar-haired friends. The other pumping up certain large business circles with significant tender money - let me also give you a concrete example of this - about HUF 3 billion in support of the music dairy plant belonging to Sándor Csányi's interest. It may be legal, but at least it's impertinent. Last but not least, public procurement, which today have become virtually synonymous with corruption. We spend at least HUF 1000-1500 billion net per year through public procurement systems in Hungary today, and a significant percentage of them migrate to parties or private pockets as a quasi-normal gift, whether they like it or not. [[16.30]] Here it is enough to think of Mr. Nyerges, Mr. Simicska's activities, even as suspicious, but, Mr. Prime Minister, without personalism and hurtful intentions, I think Tibor also has little reason to complain about public lighting projects. So I ask you, do you turn a blind eye, do you turn a blind eye? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To the end of time, or finally to consider Jobbik's proposals, they are willing to suppress spiritual prostitution. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-110	Thank you, Congressman Abbot. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-09-21-111	Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to fighting corruption. Corruption is not a matter of consideration, there is no place to consider. However, I would like to ask you to be braver than this. So don't say it here in Parliament, because you're legally protected here. Be kind, tell the public in particular - because here you have mentioned names - tell the public in a forum where you have named those who have rights and rights. So I always have the suspicion, Mr honourable Member, that when companies, names and industries are brought up here, it usually happens to be someone who brings them up, in which case rivals are hiding behind you, and I do not think it appropriate to use Parliament's horseshoe to pursue economic interests by attacking the government on corruption charges, although in fact they only want to make room for their own clientship. Be braver, go out to the public and talk about these issues. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-112	Thank you, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Abbot.
u2015-09-21-113	Mr. Prime Minister, I see you've become very nervous and tense today. I don't know what the reason is. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] I would like to remind you that in 2006 in your speech at the Castle in Buda on Monday afternoon after the first election round, you stated, among other things, how many tests life will put us under, and we do not decide. Now, this trial and the solution to this trial, these problems, are only in our hands, Prime Minister, this is not like the migration issue, where we have practically largely become victims of external circumstances, we can solve this. My fellow Member, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, who is sitting near me, filed 60 complaints, all of them being smeared. We have tabled proposals to eradicate corruption. The compulsory propertyisation investigation, covering the political elite and the close family, was rejected. Wide disclosure of property declarations has been refused. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Béla Kovács!]] Special investigative, investigative and secret service tools should be used, or because it is often unproven because it is in the interest of the person who gives it and of the person who gives it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] who gets it so it doesn't get out, so technically...
u2015-09-21-114	Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-115	...we could track him down with property studies, but you've been stopping him for five years.
u2015-09-21-116	Thank you.
u2015-09-21-117	Answer me that, please, don't speak out of turn. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-118	Mr President, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-09-21-119	After all, I find it impossible - to bring just one particular case - to say that you stand up and say about a well-known player in Hungarian agriculture, who is also the president of a bank, bringing his name here, that a state aid which you have provided for development and which has been awarded to him under normal conditions is corruption. Are you out of your mind? [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks. István Apáti: Disguised as lawful!]] Are you out of your mind? ! He really believes that Hungary can be led, that economic policy can be done, that, by the way, Hungary's respected citizen... - and that is why I have brought a name that cannot be mentioned with us, i.e. in terms of political sympathy, specifically something that cannot be done. Where are we going to find that if you, such investors, who receive the funds through regular state tenders, receive the grants through public tenders, you will set up - in this case I also gave you the cattle farm - you are simply accusing him of corruption? ! This method does not have the potential to reduce corruption, but to destroy the Hungarian economy. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to think carefully about the specific names that are mentioned. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And if they are aware of specific matters, they should not be told here, but should press charges and accuse these people in public so that if they feel like it, they can strike back. I want you to be more men than you did this afternoon. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I would like to tell Mr Abbot that I can only speak in order of business at the end. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How long should families be deprived of help from the Hungarian state? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-09-21-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I believe that the Hungarian government is responsible for the Hungarian families who are abroad, and I would like to discuss a specific problem with you. Several people have contacted me in recent months with the problem - parents working in Austria, mothers - that they have to fight bitterly with the Hungarian authorities to issue a certificate. This certificate is needed in order for them to receive the family support from the Austrians, which is rightfully due to them. The sad fact is that the Hungarian authorities have 90 days and then 90 days to give this to these Hungarian families once more, but unfortunately, a year and a half is not enough to finally get this certificate. This obviously means that these people will not be able to obtain the family support they deserve until this certificate is received from Hungary. I also asked you a written question, but you convinced me that you were not handling this problem in your place, and in fact you don't want to acknowledge how much Hungarian families are on the brink of this. See a situation in which, if, say, the man's income is threatened, the woman, the woman, does not receive family support, the family will in fact be on the side of the road in a matter of minutes, not in Hungary, but in Austria. The explanation that you gave me that the Austrians are to blame here would be a very convenient loophole for the Hungarian government, but that is not true. This is about the fact that, in my experience, the Austrian party provides what is necessary for this family support in two or three weeks, whereas it takes about a year and a half from the Hungarian government to get this one certificate. So what I would like to see most now, Minister, is that you understand this problem and promise to act, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but specifically today, because these families have been watching and experiencing all the negative effects of this problem for a long time now. I'm asking you how much longer you'll have to endure this treatment.
u2015-09-21-122	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár, who leads the Prime Minister's Office, to reply.
u2015-09-21-123	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, if the Hungarian state has made a mistake against any of its Hungarian citizens, then here and now I apologise to the citizens first, but if the answer to your question was inadequate, then also from you, Congresswoman. By no means is the Prime Minister's aim to negulate a problem, underestimate the weight of this problem or make life difficult for people who turn to the Hungarian state to deal with their affairs. For the record, the package of 107 laws that will be presented to the Parliament next week will serve precisely the speedier administration of this type of case. I would like to inform you that the Hungarian people have to suffer about 1.3 million cases that the Hungarian state is unable to resolve this matter within 60 days. So there are 1.3 million cases per year, which we cannot handle within 60 days, which is the general administrative deadline, and it will be dealt with by the Hungarian State outside the deadline. So, in addition to the specific certificate, the question you raise is that the Hungarian public authorities do not take action within the time limit available or because they are indecisive, it is a characteristic thing that state officials do not dare to decide on certain issues, or because they wait for the last day to make the decision and work, this has recently led to some change in the government's personal composition, this kind of mentality, so we are going to change that, or because it is simply the legislation that makes this bureaucracy happen. If the answer to the written question was inadequate, I am ready to have the matter examined with my colleague, Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, whether I am here after the oral question, to discuss this and to take action to issue certificates, as I have ordered in the case of my fellow opposition Members, on the issue of naturalisation certificates in Budapest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-124	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-09-21-125	Minister, thank you for your answer. On the one hand, I think it is very important that these families have access to family support in time, and I would like to highlight one more thing about registration, because there has been a lot of talk that with these children, until they have their birth certificate, they cannot travel, especially in today's world, without papers. But there is another case here that, I think, should be a lesson for many of us. It's a little girl whose parents piled up millions of forints in hospital medical bills because they didn't have their little girl's birth certificate, and they had to pay these bills. This Hungarian little girl, who was born abroad because of the family's situation, was lucky to have the outsiders with good intentions, so that the family could handle this situation, but I think that the Hungarian government cannot afford to put a single Hungarian girl, a little boy or a family in such a situation. Therefore, I thank you if the Minister now takes this matter into his own hands. I am also available with my knowledge, and what information I have, because here is the goal of solving this problem as soon as possible.
u2015-09-21-126	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Minister Lazarus.
u2015-09-21-127	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that when government offices took over naturalization cases on 1 April, there were 200,000 of our countrymen whose naturalization did not take place, it was not legal, and the Immigration and Nationality Office suffered an annual delay. There are 8,000 children in Hungary whose naturalization was not previously carried out by the organs of the Hungarian state. The birth certificate exhibition of these children, which is the condition of naturalization, had to be dealt with out of the question. We will do this together with the employees of the Budapest Budapest Government Office by ordering overwork, setting the target task, first the children. We will really need time to work off the 200,000 naturalization backlogs, but I will do everything I can with my colleagues to shorten this deadline, and to ensure that this time limit does not occur again. So there were 200,000 Hungarian citizens, new Hungarian citizens whose naturalization case was not settled, and 8 thousand children who did not have a register similar to the one you mentioned. If you don't mind, my colleague Zoltán Kovács and I would like to invite you for coffee. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Demercation from opposition parties.]]
u2015-09-21-128	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How did the technical border closure work at the Hungarian-Serbian border? It's an address. I ask Congressman Vas Imre if he will accept the Secretary of State Károly Kontra, who has been appointed to answer. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes.]] Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Vas Imre.
u2015-09-21-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 June, the Government 1401/2015. It decided on certain measures necessary to deal with the exceptional immigration pressure, which resulted in the order to prepare for the establishment of a temporary border closure for surveillance purposes at a height of 4 m in length of 175 kilometres in order to eliminate the interoperability of the green border in the border section of Hungary and Serbia. On 6 July, the National Assembly adopted CXXVII of 2015 amending the Law on State Borders. Law on the use of a 10 m band from the border of Hungary for the construction, installation and operation of facilities for the protection of the state border. On 29 August, the Ministry of Defence announced in a statement that two days before the deadline of 31 August, the first phase of the border closure had been completed, the Hungarian-Serbian border was closed, i.e. the fast-settled wire barrier was completed. The last two dates I mention to my fellow Members were adopted by the Parliament on 4 September 2015 by CXL. a law under which the illicit crossing, destruction and prevention of the construction of a border lock is a criminal offence and is punishable by imprisonment or expulsion. As has often been said in the press, dealing with the crisis caused by migration is a milestone of 15 September when the second phase of the border closure was completed and the above-mentioned bill came into force. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask how the technical border closure at the Hungarian-Serbian border has worked. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-21-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have good results to report on the strengthening of the southern border section. As you said, on the one hand, we provided the southern border with physical protection, on the other hand, the safety barrier and the technical lock were completed, and legal protection came into force on 15 September. Let me give you a piece of data. On 14 September, the day before the entry into force of legal protection, 9830 illegal migrants were apprehended by the police at the Hungarian-Serbian border, i.e. 9830. This weekend, the number of illegal migrants captured was 20 176, of which 722 were caught in 72 hours in Serbia, and 240 were caught in one day. So on 14 September, before the entry into force of the legal protection and the security border lock, almost ten thousand were reduced to 240 in connection with the operation of legal protection, living protection and the security border lock. Allow me to give you some information regarding the court proceedings: 101 convictions of substantive guilt, one or two years of expulsion, 5 return to prosecutors on grounds of failure to appear, 13 hearings for prior arrests were held by the court, 7 prior arrests, 6 house arrests were ordered. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] As regards the operation of transit zones, I would like to say that from 15 September 459 people have applied to Röszkén and Tompán to the transit zone, 459 have submitted applications, of which the number of applications rejected is 42 and the number of applications accepted is 383. I'll continue in a one-minute time frame. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-21-132	Thank you very much. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2015-09-21-133	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am pleased that Parliament and the Government have made a good decision in this regard, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the illegal border crossing has been very, very much reduced by the border lock, to roughly 2.5 percent of the previous one. This is certainly a significant achievement in our opinion. So I think that this border lock should be built on all the border sections where these problems occur. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-21-134	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-21-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Taking into account the opinion expressed in the national consultation, the government decided to protect the country and protect the Hungarian people. It's gonna be a long fight. Our aim is to ensure that no one enters Hungary illegally. It is important to have a pan-European solution, because we can handle the situation, but the solution requires a pan-European decision. We would also like to continue these measures at the Hungarian-Croatian border. We are confident that the laws adopted today by Parliament, two-thirds of the laws, which provide additional rights to the police and allow the assistance of the defence to protect the border, will help us to achieve even greater security both in the Hungarian-Serbian border section and in other parts of the southern border, including in the Hungarian-Croatian border section. I would like to ask my fellow Members. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to support the government's efforts in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: * When will the Quaestor victims be compensated? It's an address. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State, Répássy Róbert, who has been appointed to reply. [[Dr. László Kács: Of course I accept.]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Cook.
u2015-09-21-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Secretary of State, On 6 June, the deadline for the Quaestor victims to submit their claim that 6 August was the last day of the compensation organisations under the adopted law to compensate for their money and people who lost their savings in the Quaestor broker scandal. Since then, I have written several letters to you, including to NGM. In the meantime, it turned out that your professional position, as well as the professional position of your minister, is different from that of the Secretary of State Tállai or Secretary of State Kovács, according to which the Constitutional Court procedure does not have suspensive effect for the implementation of a law, and the President of the Republic signed and proclaimed this law without concern and comment, so this law is valid and valid, and according to you, I believe that it must be implemented. [[16.50]] You sent me to the BEVA, to the MNB, to the Quaestor Fund, to write a letter to everyone, because you don't have the authority. Specifically, this case and the 32,000 victims and their families are being thrown around like hot potatoes among themselves. I will not join this line, not even because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave me a statement today, I think, which is quite important, perhaps which is also true of this matter. Before the agenda, the Prime Minister said that we want to protect our culture of respect and respect for the law. Then I would like to ask you that, if our professional position is correct, and the Prime Minister says so, and I think that this is a standard measure that we can accept regardless of which party's president is the Prime Minister, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what date they intend to comply with the law. I'd like to ask you to answer with a month and a day. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-21-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2015-09-21-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I am pleased to be able to answer you for the third time on the same question, but thank you, of course, for keeping this on the agenda. As is clear to you, the implementation of the so-called Quaestor Act is the responsibility and duty of the Investor Protection Fund and the so-called Quaestor Fund. Under the law, the liability fund of the Quaestor victims is a legal person and is governed by the law by the Board of Directors of the Investor Protection Fund. The Quaestor Fund is an independent, independent organization that is not connected to the government. The Ministry of Justice has no influence on how the provisions of the law are implemented. I would also like to inform you that, under the Hungarian National Bank Act, the MNB is an independent organisation and is exclusively entitled to supervise the financial intermediary system. I stress that the government and thus the Ministry of Justice have no authority over the Hungarian National Bank. The Member may also address a question to the President of the National Bank of Hungary - I regret that Mr Burány has dealt with something else just now - and he may, of course, ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary about the MNB operations relating to the implementation of the Quaestor Act. The payment by BEVA shall be made with the assistance of the paying agency, credit institution, which shall be entitled to do so. Based on the decision of the Board of Directors of the Quaestor Fund, OTP Bank Plc. operates as a paying place, which the injured persons may visit in person. The settlement of claims is under the law. I'm asking you together. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We call on these organizations to implement the law. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Cook in return.
u2015-09-21-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I have once asked you to come to a press conference together, and let us say that there is no suspensive effect of the Constitutional Court procedure, Minister László Trócsányi, who wrote this down, let us tell you and call on these organisations. I was standing in front of your ministry. They didn't come. Once again, I would like to quote the Prime Minister's speech before today's agenda: "We do not tolerate the fact that there is a task that cannot be solved. Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Prime Minister, Right now, I think the government is in a lack of ambition when it does not do so. Secretary of State, this law has been prepared by you and you are responsible for codification right now. I'm still asking you, this deadline is over, what are you gonna write in it? Please indicate the day and month: what is the final deadline for implementing this law? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-21-142	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Répássy Róbert is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-09-21-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As far as the public is concerned, I think the public of Parliament is quite serious, more public than a press conference, so here I repeat to you that Parliament has adopted the law on the proposal of the governing parties, the law is valid, the organisations I mentioned earlier are responsible for the implementation of the law, and the law must be implemented by them. Of course, we are available to everyone in the light of the meaning of the law, but I think I can't tell you more than that, in particular, the Quaestor Compensation Fund and the Investor Protection Fund should implement the law. If the law is not enforced, it is indeed a violation of the law, regardless of the reason for which the law is not enforced. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: he certainly did not have an address for this. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-09-21-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Illegal immigration dominates the public discourse at a level that unfortunately we have very little to say about a lot of other important things, but I do not think that we can avoid talking here in Parliament about such despicable pranks that are being prepared under cover. For example, the remaining 380,000 acres of state land are being cut off quietly. It is almost amazing that a series of steps are being taken here against the Hungarian countryside, and this is being taken with this step. It is not enough that they do not bring this matter before Parliament, but they are not willing to discuss with the stakeholders themselves that the remaining national assets will be squandered in this way. There are two reasons why they want to sell state land. On the one hand, it is said that this more than 300 billion forints, which will come from this, will be good for the state register, but they will no longer add that the state will lose its rent forever, nor will they add that the preferential loan granted through the National Bank of Hungary, which will enable them to buy these lands, will also be paid by us taxpayers. It is also a false argument that, because of the pressure from Brussels to stop social enterprises from getting their hands on land, we must sell these lands in time, because even if this bad decision is made, it does not oblige us to dispose of this remaining national wealth. They didn't have one similar statement before. They didn't refer to this as being prepared to do so, even though they're punching their own voters in the face with this step, because you're setting yourselves up as a right-wing national government and not as a way forward. I'm referring to the MSZP-SZDSZ, who then totally privatized everything, but even they didn't dare touch the state land. So this move is definitely surprising and mean. The only way they're gonna get out of this is if they take it back right away. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-09-21-147	In the tone that our fellow Member who asked the immediate question calls the government and its decision mean, it is a little difficult to discuss. So if I may, I wouldn't. I signed the regulation on this issue an hour ago. Today's gonna come out. It's all there is to it. Please study it, and then let's talk about it calmly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-148	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2015-09-21-149	I was prepared for this arrogance. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] We've gotten used to this under your government, Prime Minister. I would not be proud at all to disclose the remaining national assets in such a way that I do not ask the real owners, the Hungarian people, about this. You should not be proud of this, Prime Minister, but withdraw this madness and bring it to Parliament as soon as possible; if we have not been able to convince you to do so, we should at least discuss it under fair conditions. I believe that the Hungarian people would have a serious opinion on this and that national consultations should be held on such matters. Look your voters in the eye, ask them if it was about a government that is now in a series - the second term - who has been authorized to squander the remaining national wealth. I'm sure your voters didn't expect you to do this, and I'm asking you not to use this kind of mean action to make sure that everyone's focused on migration. Take it back! This is unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-150	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-09-21-151	If I can't discuss this calmly with you, I would like to say to the other Members that we consider this a historic step, we are implementing a 100-year-old farmer's programme. [[Interview from the benches of Jobbik: Who?]] To present the government, Parliament adopted the Land Traffic Act by two-thirds. It includes precisely who and how much land in Hungary can be. These lands are also subject to land limitations and property restrictions. We ask the question that you raised in this form, as we have heard here, in a different way. In our mind, the question is where the land belongs, or who owns the land. Our answer is for farmers to be owners of the land, according to the relevant rules, with a land limit of 300 hectares. The state should only be an owner for an exception. The next question is, how does this land get to them? According to the rules of the Land Traffic Act and in public proceedings - the resolution I signed discusses these details. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.00]]
u2015-09-21-152	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, Member of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Will there be drama in theatres? It's an address. I will ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to reply.
u2015-09-21-153	Yes, of course.
u2015-09-21-154	It says yes. Then you have the floor, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann.
u2015-09-21-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Exactly 132 years ago, on September 21, 1883, the drama of Imre Madách, the tragedy of man, was presented at the National Theatre of that time in the directorship of Ede Paulay. A hundred years later, more precisely 101 years later, the Hungarian Writer's Association proposed that this day be the day of Hungarian drama, and the proposal was accepted. Since then, every year we commemorate our hungaricums, Hungarian drama, and thus indirectly Hungarian literature. On this day, we celebrate that our culture is very high, that our literary works are huge in terms of secular standards, and that this great drama of Imre Madách could, after 22 years of silence in a forced book, have stepped out of his captive book, presented, and crossed the difficult front of literature and the theater organization. Since culture, including those branches of art that give more people the opportunity to cooperate, is a huge thing for the quality of human life, for the development of man, for the development of children, for community organisation, for the strengthening of national identity, I respectfully ask Mr.Secretary whether Hungarian drama receives enough support, whether Hungarian theatre will receive enough support, whether there will be a continuation of the beautiful series that did not start with Madách, but earlier, but was definitely an outstanding stage of Madách. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-09-21-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-21-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, If you have already started with Mrs Madách Imre, let me begin by referring to her, as the MITEM, the Madách International Theatre Meeting, which was held again this spring with the very generous support of the government, I believe that Imre Madách's name will be made even more internationally known, or at least it will record his genius, as artists from 13 countries came to Budapest for this international meeting, twenty performances took place on three stages, and I believe that Madách's name will be held on the international level where he should be present. If we look at the situation of the theatres in Hungary, we can see that the budget adopted this spring will further expand the possibilities of Hungarian acting, since the total amount will be HUF 9 billion 586 million, and this amount will increase by HUF 110 million compared to this year's budget. This represents a significant increase in resources for both Budapest and rural theatres. In the case of national-rated theatres, 2 billion HUF 493 million is available next year, which represents funds in Debrecen, Győr, Miskolc, Pécs and Szeged, while in the case of the theatres with a high-ranking rating it is an additional HUF 7.1 billion. The cultural diversity and quality of Hungary is well characterised by the fact that in each county seat there is a theatre which can provide very high quality lectures in all counties, either in state or municipal maintenance and operation, in all parts of the country. Plus, even for these theatres, for other theatres and alternative workshops, there is a very wide tendering framework of HUF 13.1 billion, from which they can support the presentation and presentation of new pieces. I would like to refer to further support in rejoinder. Thank you very much. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2015-09-21-158	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-09-21-159	I was pleased to hear Mr Secretary of State's reply, all the more so because we know how difficult it is to raise resources. There are many accusations against all governments that culture is the stepchild of all budgets. These opportunities provide an additional opportunity for everyone to know not only the name of Imre Madách in the world, because the day of Hungarian drama is not only the day of Hungarian literature within the borders, but also the day of Hungarian drama across the borders. These proposals, these opportunities will certainly result in our István Örkény, our Lászlós Németh and playwrights and playwrights whose works can be performed not only by professional artists, but also by student artists, as drama in pedagogy and human education, and in particular Hungarian drama, cannot be replaced by anything else. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-160	Thank you very much. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-161	Before continuing the list of grants, I would just like to confirm, Congresswoman, that if someone starts in Budapest or in a large rural city, and on weekdays, on Friday and Saturday evenings he wants to see the most diverse theatre performances in all different genres, from the smallest cellar theatre to the large national institutions, he will find everything in Budapest and find everything in Hungary. This is also due to the wide range of support schemes, as they could benefit from Tao grants and the resources of the National Cultural Fund could also be used by various theatre workshops. I would like to highlight from this year the establishment of a new playground of the National Dance Theatre, supported by the government with HUF 2.7 billion, but it is equally important to prepare for the renovation of the National Theatre in Csokona, as this will take place in the context of the renovation of the rural theatre, and we will also try to offer as many settlements as possible, which will ask the government to expand the theatre. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: Is unacceptable high salaries acceptable in the Government? It's an address. I ask you if you accept the person of the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-09-21-163	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You may remember how they felt in opposition about the salaries of the leaders of public companies. In 2008, Mihály Varga suggested that the annual income of state managers be reduced by 40-50 percent, because it is unacceptable that some state companies such as the Hungarian Development Bank or the Hungarian Electric Works earn over HUF 3 million per month. Fidesz has repeatedly submitted a proposal for a radical reduction of the unacceptablely high salary of the heads of public companies and institutions. What did we see after that? Almost immediately after their entry into the 2010 government, the pay ceiling for public companies was abolished. However, most companies have not exceeded the 2 million ceiling until now, because you have enabled public companies to have a gross monthly wage of HUF 5 million for managers. This also includes a 20% premium, extra wage and other benefits. Remaining in the examples of Mihály Varga: the salary of the head of the MFB, together with the premium, may increase from 3.6 million to 6 million per month, MVM from 3.6 million to 4.8 million, and other benefits will be added. On an annual basis, that could be an extra $30 million. What seemed unacceptable to you in opposition has suddenly become acceptable. While the public sector's salaries have been frozen for the seventh year, they are concerned about the low salaries of state officials. The public sector's wage disadvantage is 15-20 percent against the competition sector, and the gap is increasing. If you consider it so important to catch up on public wages, why don't you start with hundreds of thousands of state employees earning a minimum living? That's what I'd like to ask you.
u2015-09-21-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[17.10]]
u2015-09-21-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government hasn't changed since the government has been ruling for five years. Saying that we're thinking differently about government now? Exactly the economic situation has changed over the last five years. What has changed is that this country is no longer bankrupt, what has changed is that there is not economic growth-minus, there is a decline, but there is lasting economic growth in the country. For example, in 2014 there was 3.6 percent, which was the highest in the European Union. This was the result that had to be achieved. This is the result of the country itself, and this includes state companies. It includes the performance of state-owned companies, the performance of state-owned companies. We believe that in five years the leaders of Hungarian state-owned companies, who worked well, have made sufficient sacrifices in order to obtain at least the same or slightly less wages with the Visegrád countries and the competitive market. We think that they made the right sacrifice so that their income would be higher now. Because if you compare it to the Visegrád countries, the same leaders in the Czech Republic still earn between 4.2 and 14.7 million forints a month. They earn between HUF 1.6 million and HUF 6.8 million in Poland, or between HUF 1.2 million and HUF 5.6 million in Slovakia. And these company managers must work in the same way on the market, with the same efficiency and efficiency. Not to mention business. Why should a state manager stay on the field if he can earn 3-4 times the business sector anyway? Indeed, the state company must have the same performance, produce results, and receive a premium. This must now be said and said in Hungary, five years after the beginning of our government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-09-21-167	I don't mean to be cynical, but if the country is doing so well, why are there nearly four million poor people in Hungary today? Why is it that over two million employees earn under the minimum living? If it was going so well, it would not have been necessary to raise the wages of the leaders who earn 2-3 million HUF per month, but those who earn below the minimum living. According to the LMP, the first step should be to fix the salaries of public employees. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Demagogy.]] And workers should change poverty. The practice that we have experienced before is that the Hungarian National Bank, where the Presidents and Vice-Presidents make a lot of money, but the Managing Director is HUF 5 million a month. It would be time for the government to consider not raising the wages of high - earning leaders, but of those who are poor. And there are more and more poor families that need to be improved. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-09-21-168	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-09-21-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Well, if we can turn off the envy factor now, then I think you and your party will be right for us from a different perspective. It is true when his fellow Member speaks in one of his sentences about the high emigration rate in Hungary, when good professionals leave the country. This is also the reason for the relatively low salary of public companies to leave the country. The other question is the question of professionals. You will say in several speeches that there are not enough professionals in Hungary, there are no qualified professionals. Well, how would it be if we didn't pay for it in the state sector? And let me tell you one more thing: the perception of pay is very relative. Because the people you're talking about, the poor, they think your salary is high, for example. So this is how you approach it in the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Demeter, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What can the government do about the intolerable behaviour of the Croatian government? It's an address. I ask Congressman Demeter if he accepts the Secretary of State László Szabó appointed for his reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Demeter.
u2015-09-21-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanović attacked Hungary a few days ago because we Hungarians say that we are not good at dealing with migrants and that they, on the other hand, welcome everyone and even take care of immigrants. Compared to this, what did we see or what did we see? We see that the Croatian reception system collapsed in one day. At the moment, the Croatian Government is engaged in transporting migrants to the Hungarian border, not by providing them with the necessary conditions, as he himself acknowledged. The situation is aggravated by the fact that Croatians, in violation of their international and EU obligations, do not register any illegal immigrants invading, so thousands enter the European Union uncontrolled, causing serious security risks to the community. Serbian Interior Minister Nebojša Stefanovic also expressed surprise that Croatia has been monitoring the migrant crisis in neighbouring Serbia for several months, but was not prepared to deal with the situation in a similar case. At the same time, I was pleased to hear that in the area of Beremend, as the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech before the agenda, the Hungarian Defence and the Hungarian police have begun to build a physical barrier and are setting up a rapid fence to prevent further illegal border crossings. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We have no choice but to defend our borders. That is why I ask what the government can do about the intolerable behaviour of the Croatian government. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-172	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2015-09-21-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, I am thinking of a children's verse, and allow me to say this distortion: Croatian child has cut it and is cured by a Hungarian child. Technically, we do the work that Croatians should do, not with whistles, drums and violins, but with the sacrifices of Hungarian law enforcement forces, with the careful registration work of the staff of the Immigration Office. Because not only countries in the Schengen area, but also countries outside the European Union, have an obligation to comply with Dublin III. Regulation No. By the way, yesterday, the Federal Republic of Germany called, among other things, Croatia to be expected, because it is mandatory for everyone in the European Union to comply with this regulation. Indeed, as you said, Plan A fell apart on the first day, Plan B was announced that day, and since then plan C has been implemented, despite the fact that the Hungarian authorities and ministries have drawn the attention of the Croatian authorities to the need to prepare for a refugee flood. The Hungarian government has done its work very transparently and purposefully since the migrant problem arose, but unfortunately not all countries have done so. So I hope that the Croatian government will come to its senses soon. By the way, the good news is that the administrative cooperation, the operational work, looks like it's going a lot better than government communication. I trust that, after the Croatian elections have taken place, they will not only address the internal political consistency of the migration issue, but also try to take part in a real solution. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2015-09-21-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Demeter has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-09-21-175	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply and, of course, thank you for the decisive action of the Hungarian Government, thank you to the police, the soldiers and the civilians for the work they have done in this respect. I trust or hope that the leaders of the EU Member States will eventually come to light and feel the emergency that concerns immigration. I trust that, with a joint European action, we will come to an end and things will be clarified. Finally, I wish the government to continue to do this work, and, of course, to act decisively and, where necessary, with solidarity and assistance to those who are forced to do so, if necessary. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.20]]
u2015-09-21-176	Thank you very much, Congressman Demeter. You have the opportunity to rejoin Mr. Secretary of State Szabó.
u2015-09-21-177	Mr Congressman, we see that the statements of the Hungarian Government are increasingly being confirmed, and the more countries face the migrant problem, the more countries have the same views as Prime Minister and the Hungarian Government. It is good to see that when we meet foreign politicians and decision-makers, more and more people see the Hungarian position, and more and more people see that there really is no other solution than fence building, physical protection of borders and dealing with the problem in the countries of origin. We are working on this, the Hungarian position is very clear, and the Hungarian proposals are very clear, and we are expressing them in all the forums. I trust that the leadership of all of Europe will stand up next to these lines and we will think about the real solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question with the title of "Unemployed Residents." I ask the Member if he accepts the identity of the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-09-21-179	Yes, I accept, thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-21-180	You have the floor, Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-09-21-181	Thank you very much. 2015. CHAPTER VII From the 1st month onwards, the central employment of residents will take place in Hungary. The employer of the group involved in the supported vocational training is the Health Registration and Training Centre. Training and not only training, but also work itself can take place in virtually accredited healthcare facilities, and with the appointment of the aforementioned Health Registration and Training Centre. Residents' salaries are financed from central budgetary resources. From what you've said, it's clear that it's centralization and centralization above all else. It's suitable for a lot of things, but I don't think it's possible for residents to find their place in these trainings and in the world of work. What's the point? The point is, when and where these residents will work and take part in vocational training, on the one hand, and on the other hand in work activities. The managers of the health system - as I see today through this example - are no longer able to meet administrative tasks. This is apparent from the events of the last few months. Therefore, I would actually ask the Secretary of State why these residents cannot actually work in a country where, say, nearly a thousand doctors and nurses left the country during the first half of the year. Those who want to work as residents can't get a job because they make up different frame numbers, I can give you code numbers; 328, by the way, it's not a code number, it's a fact number. They give you 328 residency courses, and these people, let's say, if they want 500 jobs, they can't. Well, how about in a country like that? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Where they wander from, do health workers leave? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-21-182	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-21-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fact, a single set of figures would be sufficient to refute the statements made by the Member. This is the number of people entering state-supported vocational training in the area of residents. Here in 2010 there were 420 people, then 729 in 11 and then 803 in 12, then 865 in 13, then 940 in 2014. So from 420 to 940, we have raised the number of residents participating in this vocational training. I think this in itself proves what the socialist government failed to do before it, and if the country's fate is in good hands, then what can be done to improve the situation of young doctors in the field of health care and thus the situation of the entire Hungarian health care system and the state of the patients. It is particularly spicy that the honourable Member is talking at the same time about doctors emigrating from Hungary, and the MSZP has been saying this for months or years, while he says that there are too many young doctors in Hungary. But allow me to tell you the essence of the system, which allows you to understand exactly what system transformation is going on behind these numbers. Since this year, we have been able to achieve that from now on, the wages of residents should not be managed by the individual hospitals, but we will pay the full vocational training fees and wages of all residents from this institution you quoted at the centre of the entire residency period. In the past, hospitals were not interested in hiring residents in a certain way, since these residents were hired by doctors 40-50-60 years old or by nurses' wages. So young graduates did not have the opportunity to start their activities here in Hungary, and that is why some of them went abroad. But now that basically the hospital has a free resident, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So we're hoping that they're gonna hire a lot more people, and there's gonna be a lot more left at home. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond back to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-09-21-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see, unfortunately, Mr. Secretary of State is not fully aware of what is happening on the stage of health care, but, God, there is such a thing. You know, what is spicy is that when and when thousands of doctors and nurses leave this country together in the first half of 2015; when, let's say, 500 young residents apply, they give 328 a way and opportunity to carry out the activity that the Hungarian state has spent hundreds of millions of forints each on each individual. You know, the juicy thing is, as these people migrate, these professionals, you don't even give the opportunity to those who acquire these qualifications. Whatever you can say, the facts support that. You can lie to the ether, the facts support that. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] This is what your politics is all about: they say different things and reality is different. That's what you should be getting away from. Try your last minute. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-21-186	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr. It's for the Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see you didn't allow the numbers to disturb your speech, so you didn't give me a specific number in this next minute when you had the chance. [[Nándor Gúr: 328!]] Allow me to add a number or two to what has been said here. This year we can ensure the entry of 1167 young people and young doctors with full frame numbers. Obviously, these are proportionate, so for rural hospitals as well as for metropolitan hospitals. Two options for amendments will be within these rates this year. In 2015 HUF 1.73 billion is available for this purpose, and in the next year's budget HUF 6 billion is HUF 780 million. Maybe it was too many numbers to interrupt your thinking. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] But let's just say that as a conclusion, we're giving much more young specialists access and wages than anyone has ever done before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you tolerate it? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2015-09-21-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Jobbik has been a constructive opposition party over the past five years, and at a time when immigration is now the most important issue for our country, we naturally support proposals that are forward in this respect, with the interests of the nation in mind, adding that, of course, we are constantly submitting our own proposals. However, we are still looking at the interests of the nation, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the proliferation of corruption in the country, and we can see, if we look back on the years that we have left behind, that there have been constantly personalised laws in this Parliament, and what we have seen in a number of areas is that there have been legislative proposals that have been drawn up in a way that people have said these things into feathers, whether they are, let us say, about casino cases or about agricultural bill proposals, but we have been constantly faced with this, so we could list these examples. In his reply to one of the previous immediate questions, the Prime Minister accused us of helping to promote the economic interest of certain persons, although it is clear to the contrary and the Hungarians can see that it is precisely your government that is giving way to this. That is why I ask Prime Minister why he tolerates this. Why is it possible, under your governance, under your third rule, that corruption has grown more than ever if we look at investment and why is it possible for some actors to define directional issues, and they are the ones who can decide on which direction the country should go? This is not only about us better Members of Parliament, but also about the growing masses of society, and it undermines your popularity, which has been steadily decreasing over the past few years, and they have just tried to come out of it. I look forward to your substantive response, Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-190	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[17 .30]]
u2015-09-21-191	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. You may know my personal position, which coincides with the government's position: on the grounds of party standing and relationships, no one can enjoy an advantage or disadvantage. And the laws are made up of Parliament, where we discuss them. I don't know a law that would fall into the same category as what you said. I know of someone who's hurt the financial interests of people associated with Jobbik, and you're offended. I understand that. That's what happens. The question is whether these laws, which we are finally creating here, are for the good of this country or not. For all laws, we press the button by being convinced that this regulation will serve Hungary's interests. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-192	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-09-21-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You are a great master of words, but you are an even greater master of misconception, as we have seen this on many occasions in your answers to immediate questions, that you have not answered our suggestions, but have taken your message in a completely different direction, and I have experienced it now, and in today's immediate questions we have all been witnesses of this on several occasions. Even in your ranks, in the ranks of the ruling parties, there are more people who say that mobsters are in charge either on a local or a national level. A few months ago, our pro-government colleague Zsolt Tiffán had a Facebook entry in this regard, which received a serious press release, and, of course, Jobbik will always take the necessary legal steps. And what the Hungarians, Prime Minister, do not believe, and they see more and more that anyone would not benefit from it, as this is the only thing we have ever experienced, is that there was a narrow circle, a few people that you have put in the position. I am thinking of Sándor Csányi, István Garancsi, and we could list them in length, going through Andy Vajna, for example, in relation to casino investments. These questions should have clear and clear answers to society, Prime Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-194	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-09-21-195	I understand that regulation on casinos violates one-armed robbery right-hand interests. I understand that. But what the country still needed was to put this thing in order, and the one-carver operators with better support had to be pushed back. I know you don't like it, but I think the situation is better today, more beneficial to society than it was before. What I do not understand is that they are attacking the same person again, that for some mysterious reason, they want to make Sándor Csányi a fidesz - well, there is still a lot of work to be done to make this believable. [[Delight and applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to the interpellations, I will give the floor to the better Member of Mr István Apáti, who is applying for the order of business, and remind him of the house rules that I am asking for a proposal, not an opinion.
u2015-09-21-197	Thank you very much. I would like to say a few words on account of personal involvement and personal attack, because I am afraid that Prime Minister has somewhat sloppyed in this regard. There's nothing wrong with my state of mind, Prime Minister, and I'm asking myself that you suspect, whether you've acquired or inherited diseases in my mental state, in the background. He's perfectly sane... [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Yes, exactly, on the one hand. On the other hand, let me ask you... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me also ask you to twist my words, let me ask you for this, let me reject it. Because I have considered these activities suspicious, Prime Minister, or I have literally said that it may be legal, but at least it is impertinent. It's not the same thing as accusing anyone of crimes against the purity of public life. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Intercoms, noise.]]
u2015-09-21-198	Thank you very much. This is not a point of order, and that concludes it. Thank you very much. Rest assured, ladies and gentlemen of the House. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We're moving on to interpellations. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title "The Prime Minister's Office." István Nagy, Minister of State, will reply to the interpellation on behalf of Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas, who is competent and competent on the subject, instead of Minister of Agriculture. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2015-09-21-199	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I don't envy you, Secretary of State, because you have to answer a question that you obviously can only have a piece of paper that we say was written at the Prime Minister's Office, but I'm not saying what I'm saying about the person in his jurisdiction. The government is determined to destroy one of Hungary's finest agricultural businesses, the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate, which is still part of the II. Joseph founded 220 years ago. To this end, the company does not extend its leases, so to speak, to the use of new locally resident farmers or businesses. No one seems to care about the fate of hundreds of jobs, the excellent genetic cattle stock developed over the decades, the professional irrigation culture operated by the company. I just note that in addition to its own area, the Ménes estate still operates four thousand hectares, whose fate is uncertain for the time being, because the wells are in Romania, and they will not negotiate with hundreds of owners, they will simply shut down the water, this is a very serious problem. I'd just like to remember that, by the way. It's always the same saying that local farmers should be brought to the ground. I think that it doesn't matter at what cost, and of course there are exceptions, when it comes to the land of János Lázár, for example, they didn't think about taking the rental right away from, for example, the agricultural company in Gorzha, which is not so far from there. This is how South-Alföld Agrikultúra Kft. received a lease among others. It is also based in the Véghégyháza, Táncsics utca 28. The website does not show how much area payments will be made, because the quantity is not there, but obviously it is not one or two hectares. The new company, if you look at it, was formed when the application was launched, presumably for this project. Its owner is Dr. Baji Bonita, Nagykovácsi, Medve utca 19 based on public company data. The distance between the owner's place of residence and the company's establishment is 264 km, so it is completely unviable to have substantial farming here. No sign of activity at the object, most likely a fictitious location. I'm just hoping it's the Kft. The owner is not the same as their colleague, Dr. Baji Bonita, who has been working at the Prime Minister's Office since May 2014. Another interesting feature of the application is that a winner named Zsolt Tóth gave his residence in Battonya, Pushkin Street 91. According to official documents, there is the Serbian Church in the Eastern region of Battony. Mr. Secretary, I have to ask you, do you really think that you will continue to apply for this type of application? Shouldn't there be an immediate Kehi investigation here when it comes to obvious fictitious matters? No one is going to milk milk from 300 miles [ 260 km] into that area. And don't you think we should at least file a criminal complaint in this case? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-09-21-200	Thank you very much, Congressman Haughty. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-09-21-201	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, It is touching to hear that you are concerned about the fate of Mezőhegyes. If it was so important and important to you, then it shouldn't have been privatized. But it was you who privatized this company. And first of all, I think it is necessary to clarify that we can talk about two companies in connection with Mezőhegyes. Exactly in 2004 the Mezőhegyes State Ménes estates Rt. was divided into 100 percent privately owned Mezőhegyesi Ménesbirtok Zrt., which deals with cattle farming and crop production, and 100 percent state-owned Mezőhegyesi State Ménes, Lófarmer and Sales Ltd., which was established for the purpose of maintaining traditional activities in the long-term state ownership, and its main activities include horse breeding and the management of monuments. It would be really good to clarify the two names and make a distinction, but they are absolutely two separate companies. Based on your interpellation, I'm suggesting that you're concerned about the fate of a private company privatized under your administration. It's touching of you not to abandon your former supporters. This company had time to prepare for the announcement of its land in a tender, lease, and your exact words confirm that it is not the best way to use it, but precisely the ownership that gives farmers long-term development opportunities. In answer to your further questions, Dr. Baji Bonita does not work in the Prime Minister's Office's staff. The government, continuing to support the successful land for farmers for more than four years, supports family farms instead of two large agricultural enterprises. The NFA formed 15 of the previous two large smaller estates. [[17.40]] The NFA shall continuously monitor compliance with the conditions laid down in the contracts concluded for the exploitation of land covered by the National Land Fund and, if it experiences an infringement or breach of contract, terminate the contract with immediate effect. If you have been aware of a genuine violation of law, I would ask the Member to press charges, as he has done before, or should I ask: has he become more cautious since those complaints were rejected? The Office for Government Control has not conducted and is not currently investigating this issue, or such an audit of the Office's annual audit plan approved by the Government, which I am aware has not yet come to light. [[István Gábor Bellozó after a brief argument to András Tállai: How do I shut up?]] I would like to inform you that you have ordered an inquiry into these two cases, you have requested immediate data, and I very much hope that we can get to the bottom of your questions. With the sale of agricultural land initiated by the National Chamber of Agriculture and Magos, the government aims to return the ownership of land once nationalised by farmers to farmers. The sale takes place in full transparency and in public auctions, where all local Hungarian farmers can participate. The starting price applicable by NFA was set at a price above the market price. So there's nothing at all about pennies. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my reply to be accepted, Congressman. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Gábor István Tállai to András:...what is it, Mr. Secretary of State?]]
u2015-09-21-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-09-21-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to point out that there is no caution, because it is obvious that we will then press charges in this case. But I was hoping that there was so much decency in the government, that if you found something like this, and I put it on, he'd do it on his own, it'd be a lot easier. Mr. Secretary, the land-privatization that we're about to have is all about, but not about local farmers. I told you, the person who will buy this land lives 200 miles [ 264 km] away. The owner of a company that doesn't live in the area, which doesn't live directly at the border of the village, but is located at 264 kilometers. I mean, they're gonna extend it to that, obviously. Mezőhegyesi Ménesbirtok Zrt. - then I'll put it exactly - and it's worth a lot more than that, and it's gonna bring a lot more profit to this society than getting the chair kicked out of it. Secretary of State, thousands of cattle can't be prepared with a normal mind, that there are idiotic gangs that destroy such a company, on which hundreds of people depend on their livelihood and the existence of a settlement. That's what you should think about, but it's very urgent, Mr. Secretary. I don't accept the answer.
u2015-09-21-204	The congressman won't accept the answer. Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When does the government stop squandering urinating? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-09-21-205	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, Fidesz campaigned to make the operation of the state cheaper and more efficient. Compared to this, we have seen that in the third month of accession to the government, there were already more State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys - significantly - than the number of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys at the time of socialist governments. The State's operating costs increased steadily, and the government led by Fidesz was more expensive in its entirety than the previous government. It is also worth seeing that while in 2010 Minister György Matolcsy said that he estimates the operating cost of Hungarian bureaucracy to HUF 2800 billion, he promised to save 30 percent of it, HUF 840 billion, and we have seen in recent years that the government's operating expenses have increased steadily. Health and education received significantly less money in proportion to GDP compared to this, which means that the government spent much less on large state systems for the re-production of labour, while it spent significantly more money on its own maintenance and its own operation. It is worth taking a look at the fact that, compared to 2004, if we look at spending in proportion to GDP, it is currently planned for HUF 350 billion less in next year's budget than it should be spent on health expenditure in proportion to GDP compared to the base year 2004. The result of this, my fellow Members, is that patients are now bringing medicines and bandages into hospitals because there is no money. The same applies to education, which could otherwise be a key element of the knowledge-based society, which could form the basis for more advanced economic activity. We are currently spending HUF 680 billion less on primary and higher education than the Hungarian state spent in 2004 during socialist governments. It is worth looking at another indicator, just to understand how little money is currently available in this country: 44,000 new apartments were built in 2004 in this country, with the same number currently around 7,000. So what we see, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, is that you are talking about the fact that public farming will be more efficient, and that much more people will cost more than that, but there will be less and less money for education, health and large public systems, and Hungary's competitiveness has therefore been reduced. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-09-21-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm a little sorry for you, because I see that you have to speak up at every meeting, you have to say something bad about the government at every meeting, and you usually like to comment on economic or budgetary issues, and you have to bug until you find something. I suggest that you find a more realistic subject because I see that you are not reading the budget correctly, you are not interpreting the numbers correctly, you are misinterpreting the numbers, and you draw even more wrong conclusions from that and tell us here in Parliament. As proof of this, I can say that the figures shown in the budget for financial and budgetary activities and services are misinterpreted by you, interpreting it as expenditure on the State apparatus. In fact, only part of the expenditure of the State apparatus appears there, and another part of it appears in a completely different line, namely in the ranks of legislators and enforcement bodies. You didn't mistakenly add this up and compare it. The reality is quite contrary to your claim, as the government pays great attention to reducing its operating expenses. The increase in financial and budgetary activities and services is not driven by an increase in administrative expenditure. For example, you do not take into account the fact that there are investment expenditure on this line, such as Paks II. investment, financial expenditure, such as property purchases by the National Asset Manager or municipal investments, or a mysterious comparison with 2004 when there were no EU payments, which is also a significant part of the budget. But perhaps the most striking technical error in his claims is that in 2004 the government debt was only 12 296 thousand, 58.8 percent of GDP, as the Fidesz government gave this to the socialists at 52 percent, and now it is 76.9 percent. Thus, the amount paid to the debt service is obviously significantly higher due to the beneficial debt-enhancing activity of socialist governments, for example, in 2004 it was only HUF 3280 billion, and unfortunately in 2014 it is close to 8000 billion. Or doesn't take into account the development of interest expenditure: while in 2004 the government debt expenditure was only 875 billion, now 1345 billion in the same year, 530 billion more. Obviously, if these amounts could be in health care, education or other services, the country would be much better off. [[17.50]] The Fidesz government just got the country out of trouble in 2010 and put the country back on its feet. Since then, public debt has been declining, and since then we have been out of the excessive deficit procedure. I think that I would not agree to the competition of how much is missing in which sector, as this is a category of opposition. The opposition can always give a bigger number; because the opposition has neither a decision-making responsibility nor a management responsibility, but must draw a wrong conclusion from the wrong numbers, which results in criticism of the government. And that's not true in your case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Volner if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-09-21-209	Unfortunately, Mr President, I am not in a position to accept this answer, because I have been working from the numbers of the Central Statistical Office. Minister of State, we looked at Hungary's spending on health expenditure in 2004 on the percentage of its GDP, we looked at Hungary's spending on education expenditure in 2004, we compared this with the planned budget figures for next year, and we saw that in both large public care systems the amount was reduced, the amount from which the institutions could manage in the following year was less. So it is a direct consequence of this government policy that Hungary's competitiveness is being reduced, the health care system will continue to deteriorate, while otherwise there is a clear consensus in the economic press that the state's operating expenses have increased, even if you deny it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-210	Thank you very much. The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. When will the government take real steps to stop migration instead of pretend actions? Mr Sándor Czomba will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2015-09-21-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, During today's discussion before the agenda, you have already had the opportunity to exchange ideas with my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, on this issue, on which we have formulated the present interpellation. We continue to see that the Prime Minister's statement that Hungarian young people leave Hungary and go to Western Europe merely because of an adventurous desire has not been very substantiated, nor have we really been reassured by the response that we had received before the agenda. I would like the Secretary of State to say this more precisely in his reply that if only 5 percent of young people living abroad say that they have gone out of an adventure, and 70 percent of them say that they would have stayed in Hungary, and either the unemployment or the proportion of income not enough for a living has caused their emigration and emigration, then how can the government act against these effects. On the basis of a non-representative survey, the Secretary of State claims that only 10 percent of the 350,000 Hungarians working outside would remain outside. This is hard to believe because 48 percent of the thousands of responses to the emigration consultation launched by the LMP do not even want to come home. What kind of surveys are you referring to, Secretary of State? Where can these be achieved? How do you know him? And how can you find out the answers that are why government measures are being taken in order to halt the process of maintaining and accelerating the outflow of a meaningful, good workforce from Hungary at the moment? According to LMP's consultation of thousands of people, only higher wages could keep Hungarian workers at home and bring them home, and according to LMP, a complete shift in economic policy is needed to stop emigration, although I have just learned from one immediate question, the other Secretary of State, Mr Tállai, said that our economy is pounding and that it is possible to increase the salaries of state leaders. It is obvious that what the government is doing to make this roaring economy that you are talking about affect the primary labour market. Secretary of State, I would appreciate it if you could inform me when the government is going to start creating economic conditions for our young people to come home in large numbers and when the Ministry will forget the communication hocus pocus that has been carried out in connection with the. Come home, youth programme. Obviously, these questions concern more of us, and I would like to thank you for your answer on this. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-09-21-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, let's do it a second time, and maybe we should open up a little bit more in detail what we didn't manage to do before the agenda. So first of all, we agree that home should be the first place to create the possibility for as many young people as possible to find their goal within the borders. What do you need for that? Economic growth, jobs, employment growth and wage growth. What have we done to this in the last five years? Consider the figures for economic growth. The economy is constantly growing, and it has just been said that with a 3.6 percent increase, we were the leaders of Europe. The second is that the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by 510 thousand in five years, it is now more than 4 million in several months, it has never been the case since 92. And to give you an even more important figure for young people: while at the beginning of 2012, the unemployment rate was almost 30 percent for young people aged 15-24, this rate has now fallen below 18 per cent and employment has increased to 25 per cent. I will calculate: employment of young people aged 15-24 has increased from 210,000 to 275,000, which is a huge increase. Of course, we obviously cannot be satisfied, because with this data we know about the EU average, and obviously there are Member States that are in a much better position, but I think this is an important figure and we must estimate it, especially then - I say this only in brackets, but with many exclamation marks - while over five years the population of the age group has fallen by 100 thousand because of demographic problems. This is an even more serious problem, which is obviously not something that can or should be addressed in this interpellation. And allow me, Congressman, to say a few specific things about all the nothing that the Hungarian Government has done to young people in the last five years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the moment, 27 thousand young people are working on the Hungarian labour market with the guarantee of the first job. Within the framework of the Diploma Rescue Programme, nearly 10,000 young people know, will be able to and could obtain their language exams. In the framework of student work, 27,000 people have worked in the last two months, in July-August, and 130,000 young people have worked through school cooperatives in the past period. We have given more than 2,500 people the opportunity for housing support; the vast majority of these are young people, since they are the ones who are most mobile. We have given more than 2,600 young people the opportunity to work on the primary labour market in the last two and a half years. And tell me here about the data, where do I get the 10 percent who said that while you were assigned a sample of 5,000 people, it's practically something you can fill out online. I don't want to get into this, but I'm thinking of Churchill again, obviously. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think that according to the relevant data of the HCSO, SEEMIG - and it will be possible to keep track of this - there are 350 thousand emigrated Hungarians living in the world who went out after 89. This series shows that 10 percent of the people who were asked were asked - this is a 30,000 sample, but it's not 5 thousand, and it's not online. That's why we started the "Come home, young" program, because we see a potential opportunity for young people to come home in the next period. So there is a lot of work to be done, we agree, but the Hungarian government has not been idle for the last five years, nor will it be idle for the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I warmly welcome my fellow Members. The one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, and I will ask him whether he will accept the State Secretary's answer. [[18.00]]
u2015-09-21-215	I can't accept it, obviously because you're rebutting each other here with Secretary of State Tallai. State Secretary Czomba says we need economic growth, we need better salaries. Just now, Secretary of State Tállai said that the economy has increased, which is why state leaders need to increase their salary. This means that the strengthening of the economy will not bring young people home. In five years, he says, the number of employees has increased by 50,000. But how much of this is in the primary labour market [[Dr. Sándor Czomba: 290 thousand!]] And how many people in community service are technically improving statistics? Obviously, the fact that you know the Churchill quote so well is because you produce these statistics. Obviously, they believe theirs, and they don't believe theirs. But what matters is not what the KSH says, but the facts. How much came home? Eurostat is mentioned, Eurostat says that Hungary has 4 regions in the worst 11 regions of the European Union. This is also Eurostat data, and please refer to it then, not just what is pleasing! Overall, it is obvious that this answer cannot be accepted after we do not see the results coming. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 yes, 21 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tuzson, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: "Does the police receive adequate appreciation in the crisis caused by migration? It's an address. Congressman Tuzson Bence has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Both Hungary and the European Union are facing an enormous challenge of mass immigration and, accordingly, the country is under enormous migratory pressure, which sometimes eases and sometimes weighs on it. One of the biggest sufferers of this is the Hungarian police, which plays a prominent role in this situation, and the importance of the police's activities is enormous. As far as I know, the police have been trained in human rights in recent years, and accordingly there has been a fundamental change of opinion in the police force; in some respects, their perception of the police has also changed, their social acceptance has gradually increased, and in recent years, the highest social acceptance of all authorities is perhaps the highest. In my view, the police have carried out their actions with sufficient patience, cooperation and with due regard for the principle of gradualness, which is particularly important and deserves appreciation in the current situation. I cannot stress that the law enforcement force has been working hard for weeks and is out of control at our southern borders, as well as at our reception stations, around them, and carries out a great deal of professionalism, despite the fact that it has to deal with more and more violent actions. The recordings also show that the police are able to maintain public order and public security throughout the country, paying particular attention to the security of life and property in the performance of their duties, this is their task and it will keep this in mind. In this connection, the Prime Minister has made comments, and I agree with his contribution, and I also ask the respected police and police to be humane, but without compromise, to enforce Hungarian laws. Accordingly, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State what the police are doing in the situation with regard to migrants and whether they can provide the necessary care for police officers along the border. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary, the Hungarian people, can count on the police, the police, both on the southern border and throughout the country. The police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all offenders for the sake of the safety of people's lives and property, public order and public security. As a result of the greatest migratory pressure in Hungary's history, the police must carry out an unprecedented task. In the last 72 hours, a total of 20 176 people were caught due to illegal border crossings, of which 19,436 in Croatian terms and 722 in Serbian terms. In every case, Hungarian policemen act professionally and legally, and disciplined, humane and determined police action, Member. They did so with unprecedented calmness and maximum compliance with the principle of proportionality, when migrants from the Serbian side, claiming to be refugees, attacked the border of our country, and with concrete fragments, stone, burning tires, and everything else that was still in their hands, began to throw away the border with policemen protecting their bodies. The police are out of control in the crisis caused by mass immigration, and I thank you for your outstanding service here in Parliament. The lack of cooperation and growing aggressiveness of immigrants make the work of the authorities significantly difficult. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Interior pays particular attention to ensuring that police officers assigned to the southern border section are properly treated. As part of this, those serving there receive three meals a day, which includes one warm meal and two cold meals a day. This supply contains about 5,000 calories per day. Cold food packages include, for example, cuts, vegetables, fruit, buns or buns, while hot provisions consist of soup, main food, fruit, and dessert. In addition, they are provided with at least 3 litres of mineral water per day. Each of the police personnel' accommodations is cultured and heated, so it is suitable for the rest of the staff in the long term during the winter weather. However, it is also important to say that in the first 8 months of the year, the government has already spent more than HUF 30 billion on managing the immigration wave and is expected to extend the government reserve by an additional HUF 60 billion by amending the budget law. In addition, the government decided at its meeting on 15 September to distribute another HUF 34 billion between the police, the BA, the court and the prosecutor's office. I would like to thank again on behalf of the country for the self-sacrificing service of the police, the Immigration and Nationality Office, the prison execution and the military personnel for Hungary, for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Tuzson Bence if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, there is a great deal of pressure on police personnel, the police, and they are outnumbered. Indeed, we, the Parliament, the government, must appreciate these police officers, and the minimum condition is that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian police, will ensure their care properly, and, if possible, of course, we also look forward to those who wish to provide assistance through its official means, obviously through the police. It is therefore important that the care is adequate and that our police officers are able to do their job properly. Because, of course, the case is twofold: if the police do the work properly in the country, our police officers are properly trained, they receive the necessary training for their work, then on the other hand, it is up to the state to appreciate them, it will also be the case in the legislation of the next period, and we will ensure that their care is properly and as well as the best possible. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, I accept your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-222	Thank you very much. The congressman, as we heard, accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Amazing debts, or to whom does the KLIK owe and how much? It's an address. Congressman László Kiss has the floor, please.
u2015-09-21-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is known that one of the emblematic institutions of the Fidesz government's education policy is the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, the State Waterhead, whose leader had to be replaced once in his short history, and that this institution had been screened for which the report had to be hidden in order to avoid public knowledge. Every year, professional errors resulting from the hasty and unfounded ideas of an institution which accumulates unprofessionalism are stamped on the previously more beautiful areas of education. [[18.10]] And farming errors have a meaningless burden on taxpayers' pockets. Yet the greatest sin is the moral damage caused by the unethical, unprofessional practice of the KLIK. At times, KLIK behaves completely arbitraryly, requiring the local authorities to contribute in time to the maintenance of the institutions - parentheses, quite rightly of course - but at the same time it accumulates debts to a number of municipalities, does not pay on time, does not pay in any way. This practice also exists in relation to individual utility companies and individual suppliers. This practice is incomprehensible if you look at the extent of the central financing of the KLIK or if you look at the purpose of the KLIK itself. It is even stranger to the way you treat employees, teachers, because there is often a missed textbook liability allowance, a delay or no arrival of travel expenses, or a delay or no arrival of the graduation allowance. Thus, while the CLIK acts with the greatest rigour when it itself gives rules for others, teachers are months behind, for example, the graduation allowance. When will you finally acknowledge that the model you have introduced, the centralization of education, is inoperable, unviable, impossible? The original goal, that it is a more efficient system, is a failure, and the waste of money in the form of savings hurts the budget in huge amounts of billions of forints. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State: exactly how many utility companies and how much does KLIK owe? Exactly how much interest did you have to pay for the debts? What do you intend to do to prevent debt from regenerating? When will the KLIK finally pay the municipalities exactly? When does the KLIK give up the inability to pay off its accumulated debts? And finally, when will the teacher's missed allowances be settled? How much interest has been paid or is there even to pay? Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Firstly, regarding the effectiveness of the CLIK as a form of operation or the lifelike nature of this model, the Member said that this was not possible to work. The honourable Member also knows very well, as you certainly have a wide range of international experience in this area, that there are countries that, in this way, solve the management of the system of public education with a central management, and that there are some that are fragmented, local government maintenance and operation, as has been done in Hungary before. There are international examples of both. You can't say what you said, so you can't run a public education system in a country. It can also operate in countries with more than one population, and this kind of central management or central control, which also means the transfer of teachers from one settlement to another settlement - obviously linked to a service dwelling - has been a well-functioning system there for decades, so I do not think it is worth saying that such a system cannot be operated anywhere in the world. On the other hand, as regards the value and salary of teachers, teachers will now receive in October a salary that will be 3.4 percent higher than their previous monthly wage, and about 40 percent higher than their salary four years ago. Through the KLIK system, we have managed to introduce a career for teachers, in order to provide a more qualitative public education system that rewards extra performance with extra wages, where there is an opportunity for those who want to do more to get ahead and thus receive extra pay, and in which, of course, teachers themselves have a greater opportunity in a master's degree to participate actively in quality assurance, obviously, this will also result in financial recognition. It is clear that KLIK itself was in a difficult situation at the beginning, since the institution received from thousands of maintenance companies was in a different economic situation. Obviously, some of them struggled with debts and debts, and some were more balanced. The KLIK was created precisely to ensure that wages are paid to all teachers everywhere in the country, and that a student, a child, is born anywhere, for small settlements, for large settlements, for Eastern Hungary, for Western Hungary, for the city or village, will receive the same financial expense from the state to obtain the basic education that can be obtained in the system of public education. This obviously also means extra expenditure in the system of public education, as there is usually a need to raise schools to a higher standard in many smaller or weaker settlements under more difficult financial conditions, and there also to guarantee the increased pay of teachers. Obviously, compared to the first KLIK organizational system, we have seen what needs to be changed. We set the direction - and on 10 September you were able to read the new KLIK text, which already contains this - to have more powers than the county center district, so we put more powers to county level, to district level, and we also extended the financial decision competence of the head of the institution itself in a certain way, well, predictablely, they can manage and receive these funds through a so-called treasury card. This was the amendment that we introduced precisely so that the malfunctions we had previously experienced could be reduced as much as possible. I would like to tell you about the wages, that regular public servants' and employees' allowances have been paid, and the non-regular benefits, in which there are jubilee bonuses, commission fees, bank account compensation, work expenses, have also been paid by the end of July. Regarding textbook management funds, he forgot to mention that we are now providing double money to teachers. However, as in July and August, several billion-dollar payments were made to various utility operators, precisely to settle the delays. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Kiss if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-227	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I can't accept it. I can't accept it because it seems like we're still in two milles. On the one hand, I would like to clarify. I certainly do not claim that centralised education management ab ovo is not a functioning model. I said it didn't work. In France, where there is such a model, for example, it is not possible to turn off the gas for weeks at a primary school in Somogy County, not to turn off the phone in a primary school, and not to keep the substitute for graduation teachers slipping for months. All of these things can't happen. It should not happen that despite state control, there is a shortage of teachers in different areas. All of these things can't happen. It's a dysfunctional model; what you've introduced doesn't work. You can't forget the few sentences you've said to me here, Secretary of State. In addition, he still did not respond to how billionaire debts could occur at KLIK. That's why I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I respectfully ask you whether you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 23 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "Does Tapolca's interest matter? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, An important objective of the municipality of Tapolca is the development of basic health and social care. One of the buildings of Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca, which has been the site of physical therapy specializations, has become vacant and will be dismantled in the framework of an EU project. The building was completely renovated and accessible from 36 million forints a few years ago. Estimated value of HUF 100 million. It is incomprehensible that a building in good condition and fully exploitable, for which a significant amount of money was spent a few years ago, would be demolished despite the interest and demand of the population. The building previously owned by the municipality and then transferred free of charge to the Hungarian State would now be in great need of the city, as it would allow the centralization of the currently fragmented units of the local social care system. A major step forward would be the central office, family and child welfare services, social meals, local assistance on the ground, which would increase efficiency and satisfaction. Currently, the Ringató Cradle building in Tapolca is located, for example, the central office, social meals and home assistance office spaces. [[18.20]] Thus, the centralisation could also take advantage of the free space in the nursery, including group expansion or the development of family support services. The municipality of Tapolca supported the rehabilitation hospital development with a very significant amount of HUF 77 million, and it would be reasonable to expect that a redundant building in good condition would not be demolished, but would be once again owned by the Institute for Social and Health Assistance. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, On 30 July 2015, we applied to the Director-General of the State Health Supply Centre, in which we requested the transfer of this building to social use. We contacted the State Secretary for Health and, following the resignation of Dr. Gábor Zombor, we turned to the Minister for support, but we have not experienced cooperation, and so far we have not received a meaningful response. I am asking you, will the government help you to hand over the hospital building or ensure its permanent use to the city? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to tell you why what you are saying is endangering the implementation of the entire hospital development project, since it must be completed before 30 October, both from EU funds and from domestic sources, with HUF 2.3 billion in development and investment, and obviously if there is any change in the last days, it would not allow this to be completed either in time, financially or in terms of plans or indicators. You know very well that there are hospital developments worth HUF 500 billion across the country, and this has not been the case in the last 25 years. Of these, 320 billion HUF serves to renew and modernise inpatient care with new hospital wings and blocks of buildings. I think this is a project that should not be put at risk for local development in Tapolca. Developments affecting Tapolca Hospital are included in this 500 billion-dollar line in the framework of a TIFP project. The KDOP's KDOP application, Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca, 100 years old and the development of rehabilitation services in the Central Transdanubian region, provides a total support of HUF 2.3 billion for health development. The aim of the project, which was launched in 2013, is to provide patient-centred, high-quality healthcare, thus extending one-day surgical care with a strengthened outpatient background and maintaining chronic care and rehabilitation services providing quality services. In line with the strategic objective of the Tapolca Hospital, the project will contribute to this through the removal of the existing Pavilion system, blocking, central patient management system and the development of a single-point inpatient host. In addition to the development directly affecting the hospital, the National Rescue Service rescue station in Tapolca will also be located in the hospital area, with a new rescue station attached to the surgical clinic building. During the construction process, the part of the tender notice that the pavilion system will be merged in a functionally coordinated block structure will be implemented. A reduction in the number of existing sites is linked as an indicator to the implementation of the blocking, according to the Guide to Proposals. This will be achieved by dismantling the buildings in the administrative licences that become redundant, and its costs will be fully covered by the aid granted in the project. By tearing down old and outdated buildings that cannot meet the needs of the age, these health services, as well as administrative functions, will be transferred to the new balneotherapy building with the application and to a new building built between the building of the existing old surgical department, so they will be placed in completely new modern buildings. As regards the parts of the building to be dismantled, I should point out that in the tender submitted by the hospital in 2013, this project element, as a consequence of the blocking, the reduction of the number of existing sites was a condition of eligibility and approved the aid under these conditions in support of the tender. Deviation from the professional content entered into in the tender, especially if it means non-compliance with an indicator undertaken, would risk the successful implementation of the project, which could lead to the repayment of the total amount of aid. In the case of buildings to be dismantled in the project, any change would entail an amendment to the grant contract, which should be preceded by a time-consuming verification and approval process, according to the statutory procedure. In view of the completion of this project on 30 October 2015, it is no longer possible, so I ask Mr President to accept my reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-232	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman Lajos Rig to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sure now that the director's statement was written by you, she literally read the same thing, but I didn't get an answer to my question as to why the State Secretary or State Health Center didn't answer our questions. Also, you do not know many things that the municipality of Tapolca provides for the hospital, including the design and implementation of the exit and exit route of the National Rescue Service station in Tapolca, and the cost of the equipment related to technological change in catering. We cannot accept this answer because the Tapolcans need it. On Friday, we sent another letter detailing the things that we would like to see handed over to the municipality, and it is much more worrying that it will not be ready for 30 September, and even by 30 October, this investment will not be in jeopardy. I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 19 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources entitled "The Unaccompanied Minors arriving with the migrant wave." Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-235	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This year's wave of migration from many institutions and workers in Hungary, from law enforcement to health care, from those involved in transport to public cleanliness workers, and from our significant countrymen who have helped as civilians or private people and have helped refugees arriving here to this day. During these critical weeks and months, it has been known on several occasions that unaccompanied foreign minors arrive on the territory of Hungary, whose help cannot be a question, since they are not in control of their fate and do not even have the slightest influence on the violations surrounding them. Hungary wants and is able to provide for juvenile migrants arriving alone, as thanks to a number of measures in the past period, Hungarian child protection is prepared for the reception and care of children arriving from abroad without an escort. I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State: what efforts is the Hungarian Government making to ensure the most humane reception of unaccompanied minors? At present, how many minors can be helped in our country, and how long can this capacity be increased? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For those who arrive in Hungary as a minor, as a child, Hungary has consistently confessed since the beginning of the modern-day migration, but it has previously held that there is no way to distinguish between children and children. Those who come to Hungary on the green border or in any way, and do not have an adult-age representative, caregiver, are entitled to the same benefits as Hungarian children, so children who arrive during migration, in principle or in cases of legally illegal immigrants, are entitled to the same child protection benefits as those of Hungarian children. [[18.30]] For this reason, two institutions have been set up to receive them separately, on the one hand, the Károlyi István Children's Centre, the Károlyi István Children's Centre, on the other hand, the children's home in Hódmezővásárhely is specifically available for their reception, as they obviously need special attention. We can add that they obviously had less capacity in the past, and therefore their capacity had to be increased. One of the questions that Congressman is asking is how far the government can increase this. We will obviously increase it as long as there is a demand for it. There has been more than a hundred enlargements in recent months; we started this development already after the launch of the modern-day immigration wave. In addition, in the case of children's homes that become empty as a result of disincentives, we can free up hundreds of other places - of course the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection has already prepared the plans - and, if necessary, we can arrange the homes where unaccompanied minors would arrive at the former government resort in Balatonősd. Today, this number is not so big as to threaten me with this kind of problem. Although many thousands of young people were in these institutions - at least 3192 - most of them moved on after a few days and were not there in the long term. Right now, there are a few dozen children in this facility. Last week there were about 17 of them, and this week you can say about 35 numbers at the beginning of the week, as many children are in this facility with an otherwise capacity of over 100 people. We try to provide them fully, give them a home, so we take care of their placement. They receive five meals a day, we supply them with clothing, we provide them with health care, if necessary, and we also provide access to education. Since the overwhelming majority of these children are Afghan, namely 90 percent in Afghanistan, 4 percent Syrian, 3 percent from Kosovo, and 1 percent from Somalia, Pakistan and other countries, we have also set up interpreters and psychologists to help these children in their education and integration in Hungary. In addition, we strive to develop a diet appropriate to their cultural habits and to prepare food in this way. For those who grow up, as young adults, we provide after-care facilities, housing and continuing their studies, and we strive to provide as much assistance as possible to get them into work. However, it should be said that these institutions do not primarily involve children aged 6-8 or even 11-12 years. 95 percent are young people who say they are 14-18 years old. Whether or not this much is older, we are certainly not able to establish it on such short notice. Anyone who claims to be under 18 can, of course, be included in this preferred care circle. At the same time, as I said, most of them are far from these institutions, they are not in Hungary, but to those who are there Hungary provides all the above-mentioned services. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2015-09-21-239	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is reassuring that, in the near future, thousands of places can be available to accommodate unaccompanied minors from abroad, where professionals are involved in the care of children. Thank you for the government's view of all children arriving without an escort or parent, not as immigrants, but above all as children, and for ensuring their safe disposal. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I recently attended a joyful invitation to a forum in Western Hungary where small town mayors discussed their problems. These ranged from funding problems to incomplete public services and slow depopulation, especially with the stupid administrative structure imposed on them and, of course, unemployment. For centuries, these settlements have been based on land and agricultural production, but today many of them no longer have their own land on which they can start their own farming. It could be a simple solution to the local government's land shortage if the state wisely managed its very significant land assets. There would be something to provide for the most basic resource in rural settlements, agricultural land. With the help of the National Land Fund Manager, a large number of farmland situated at the border of settlements could be developed, which could gain access to entities organised by local communities in the coordination of municipalities. The lease could be linked to employment, so the government could provide direct assistance with the land. Instead, the winners want to get rid of their obligations. For this reason, they would prefer not to be satisfied, and they would prefer to act as owners, because this is obviously more pleasant for them. Obviously, it is also pleasant for the government to have a few hundred billion forints more fall into the register, so it is not very obvious that the government would harm its interests anywhere. It is not so for the Hungarians, whose interests it does violate, because this government is wasting its most important reserves of natural resources, and it is committing the treason when it sells the land that could help the rural population to stay in the country in the longer term, in the case of any government, with appropriate efforts, good land policy and rural development. My specific questions, Mr Secretary of State: do you not wish to change your mind, instead of converting the government and the country into money, to serve social goals with the state land? Do you not want to give those areas to the municipalities, increasing employment in rural areas? Do you not think that the permanent lease of state land for 20 years will fully satisfy the needs of a farmer, and in this way the land is safe from foreigners as well? Doesn't the government and their wallet think that we've had enough of the public property robbery called privatisation, and that we should finally preserve and increase what we have, and that governments should not live up to the legacy, but add it to that? Do you not feel that this will make the situation in the countryside, including the situation of the smallest settlements, even more impossible and that they will put an end to their ability to provide meaningful rural development goals through property policy? Can this decision be changed? Is there anything that can stop you from doing this nonsense? I'd like an answer to that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-21-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Nagy, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-243	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, You are talking, among other things, about the abduction of public property, the inability of rural small settlements and the distribution of land through municipalities as a solution to the rural problem. I do not know how much credibility can be given to these words, since the last time you spoke on the same subject, you were contradicted. He falsely claimed, as evidence of the literal record, that the National Earth Fund Act did not authorize the sale of state land. In 2010, the entire LMP faction voted in favour of this law, in black and white. The NFA uses the land section of the National Land Fund through public tender or auction, lease, asset management or exchange. I respectfully ask Mr President that you have already looked into this statement. On the basis of the facts, let us examine the accusations made in your interpellation. Local governments can apply continuously for public employment purposes and still apply for free management of state land for 15 years. When assessing lease applications, the assessment is based on the number of jobs the tenant creates. What makes you think that the transformation of the public land use scheme has reduced the number of jobs? This is another mistake, Congressman. The main aim of the programme was to support local family farmers. This is precisely the aim of increasing the rural population and the ability to maintain labour, and this is also the aim of the marketing programme. He claimed that there is no real need for land ownership by farmers, only Magos and FM say so. In contrast, according to you, farmers who do not exist submit hundreds of applications for land purchases to the NFA each month, and the NFA continues to sell areas of less than three hectares. [[18.40]] Why are you protesting it now? The sales so far were okay, but now suddenly they're not? As I recall, you submitted a request for land purchase to NFA, yes, it was a protected area of nature, which even NFA can't sell to you. Why didn't you publicly object to your own claim to buy land? However, I am shocked to see that the lease system you have so much enthusiasm for so far has been regarded as a good institution, which must be kept. I can assure you, Mr President, that, after the state lands - and I would very much like to emphasise this, after the state lands - are only one fifth, i.e. the government plans to sell some 380 thousand hectares to the maximum, so that this system, which you support, will be maintained. On behalf of the tens of thousands of Hungarian farmers who are potentially landowners and thousands of farmers who have submitted applications to the NFA, I strongly reject the criticisms of the Government's decision and recommend that in the future it be more cautious to consider a government decision to truly strengthen small estates that have always been heavily protected by the LMP. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. It's constant noise.]]
u2015-09-21-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-245	Of course not, because I have not been answered to the questions raised, but I have received once again the government propaganda that promotes this public property robbery. I've heard that before. There was no new data in this. I was quoting the NFA Act last time, because I have it here all the time, and I'm doing it for you right now. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: § (1): I did quote points (b), (c), (d) because it is not a matter of not selling at all, but it is a question of being used by the State in the management of assets and in the public tender by way of a lease. You're saying it's only one fifth. No, it's the vast majority of plowers. I respect the fact that they do not want to sell the roads and the river beds, but forgive me, but a significant part of the valuable agricultural land has now been designated. It's a serious slip and obviously the existence of a rental system [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We didn't discuss the rental part. A good, decent rental system is desirable. We have criticised the rental system and the tender system that the Fidesz government has implemented in recent years, with completely unfair and, in many cases, corrupt systems. That's why you can't accept it.
u2015-09-21-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking the Parliament if it's okay with you. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 21 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Representative Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: support in agriculture of HUF 1300 billion. When do the applications for the rural development programme start? It's an address. Congressman Font has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have recently heard from the Prime Minister's Office that only minor technical and technical comments have been received on the rural development programme previously submitted to the European Commission for consultation, which the Prime Minister's Office has dealt with and has officially sent answers to them. Practically all obstacles have been removed from the formal approval of the programme in Brussels. We already know from previous plans that around HUF 1300 billion available in the rural development programme will be used primarily to preserve rural jobs and create new agricultural jobs. The main focus of the programme is on labour-intensive sectors, with priority support opportunities for livestock production, fruit and vegetables production, gardening and food processing. Support for small and medium-sized economies, including family farms, is also an important driver of the rural development programme, since these enterprises have significant job creation skills and are able to employ many people. They are waiting for applications and waiting patiently, but perhaps many are impatient. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what stage the preparation is now in, when the applications are expected to appear and what they will be. It is well known that there has been a lot of debate around the AKG programme, and I would like to thank you here for the information booklet that farmers have received. Perhaps, if there is a change compared to the published one, we would like to thank you for your information. In particular, there was a debate on the issue of 20 years of planted plantings. I would like to ask what changes will be made to the procedural order at all, and where farmers will be able to find out about the new rules of procedure as soon as possible, and how much time they will have to submit applications for each proposal. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Kis Miklós, Secretary of State, who will give us the answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-249	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, The consultations with the European Commission on our rural development programme were successfully concluded on 10 August 2015 and we were able to fully defend the interests of Hungarian farmers and the Hungarian countryside. Moreover, with the preparation of the proposals, we did not wait until the adoption of the programme, but the negotiations started much earlier. In this context, we have convened so-called project preparation teams with the involvement of the main actors and experts in the sector, the specialised ministries and the intermediate body, and work has been ongoing ever since. The first call is also the most complex and complex application, linked to agricultural and environmental management payments, with a budget of nearly HUF 160 billion, the details of which have already been available to farmers in the days, and besides the manual, the most important information on the description is already available on the Palyazat.gov.hu website. At the same time, the call for organic farming will be launched by October. Even in the autumn, we will launch a tender for the LEADER LAGs, to implement local development strategies. During the autumn, applications include the training of consultants and village farmers in order to help farmers with adequate knowledge. Within days, the exact dates and envelopes for the display of manure storage, gardening, irrigation and livestock farms will be made public, among other things. For example, a complete invitation to tender for food processing will be published by December of this year. I would like to inform the honourable Member that, overall, the funds planned for this year's announcement, which will soon be permanently public, will exceed HUF 730 billion. This represents more than half of the overall programme framework; I note, record speed by the end of the year, within four months of the adoption of the programme. In general, most investments will be eligible for aid of up to HUF 500 million with a premium intensity of 50 per cent, but this will obviously be explained in detail in each call for proposals, as the call for proposals may differ, and less may occur in some cases. But, for example, in the case of Community investments, this amount may be much more. Young farmers will find even better conditions. In the new aid cycle, the procedures for applying for aid will be different from those for the past. The new procedure will be more flexible, more customer-friendly, because the legal basis will not be an administrative procedure. Quite a lot, I think, in recent years, in the last seven years, we have experienced the negative consequences of this. A contractual relationship between the parties governed by the Civil Code will be established. The conditions for the use of the aid will be set out in open language, not in a legal language, but in publicly understood calls for proposals. I would therefore like to reassure the honourable Member that the excessive and bureaucratic system created by the Socialist Government in 2007 will be a thing of the past, and the changes will be positive for all customers. The Prime Minister's Office has already presented the content of the programme at a number of its own or rural development organisations, together with the Chamber we have published and will publish manuals available to all customers, such as the tender procedure or funding. The rapporteur network of the national rural network in Hungary will also ensure the flow of information beyond the villager network in the Chamber. Thank you very much. On this basis, I ask that you accept my reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.50]]
u2015-09-21-250	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Font Sándor if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have heard joyful news from the Secretary of State, and now we are just waiting for this to be achieved. Farmers who have already participated in one or two cycles of rural development and agri-environmental management programmes have often heard about complexity, inside information and more. If this goal, which reflects a completely new concept and a new approach in the answer we have just heard, is achieved by making it simpler, more understandable and perhaps evacuating intermediate advisory firms, then this will be a great help for farmers, as the resources can get to them directly. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that the agricultural consultants, the village farmers, are prepared, because the simple peasant in the countryside can go to these people, with whom they can discuss their problems in a lively way, and perhaps they can find an answer to what development they should be focusing on. Thank you for your answer, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. What are they doing to give the members of the Honvéd Health Fund access to their savings? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-21-253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well-known, the savings of the Honvéd Health Bank amounted to HUF 1.8 billion at the DRB Bank owned by the owners of the Buda-Cash Broker House. From your answers to our previous questions, it is clear that the money from the health bank has been wiped out by the bankruptcy of Buda-Cash. The members of the health fund may obtain their money only in the distant future, at the end of the winding-up procedure, provided that they have something to pay for it at all. This concerns the payment of over 27,000 soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers at the health bank. As a result, surgeries may be cancelled, even though the customers of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund did not exchange, but chose the form of savings supported by the government, and they specifically set aside their money to preserve their health. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If, on the proposal of the government, the Parliament has adopted a separate law to compensate investors in Quaestor bonds, it cannot stand by and watch the savings of thousands of employees of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Home Affairs set aside for the purpose of health preservation, the people who serve every day to protect the lives and property of Hungarian citizens. The minimum value of this service is that the Hungarian State will assist them in such a situation. For this reason, the Defence and Police Committee has submitted an amending proposal to the budget, which, by adopting it, would have allowed the customers of the Honvéd Health Fund to have access to their savings. However, this amendment was not supported by the Government and was voted down by the Fidesz majority at the Committee on Budgets. So I ask Mr Secretary of State whether the government is taking an initiative to ensure that, like the Quaestor victims, employees of the Hungarian Defence Forces, law enforcement agencies and secret services can finally obtain their savings for health purposes. Thank you.
u2015-09-21-254	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As has already been said on several occasions, we have written and said here in Parliament, to the Honvéd Voluntary Mutual Supplementary Health Insurance Fund - although it bears the name of the Honvéd, and, as she said, she may know several Hungarian soldiers among her members - legally and organisationally, she has no contact with the Ministry of Defence. Thus, the defence wallet has neither a legal mandate nor a financial opportunity to act as protectionist in the face of market conditions with taxpayers' money, i.e. the government's budget, choosing a market player. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence, through the Hungarian Defence Health Centre, continuously provides health care to all its employees and the entire staff of the Hungarian Defence Office, which is completely independent of the cashier's ability to operate. So despite the loss of assets caused by the cashier's management, he couldn't have been left without medical treatment or surgery. I would also like to inform the Parliament and the congresswoman that at the end of February this year the Ministry of Defence, realizing that the account manager of the Honvéd Health Bank could be wound up, withheld the contribution of the health fund to the stock, so that it is not transferred to the financial institution that appears to be lost. However, the amount withheld was allocated as soon as the Honvéd Health Bank opened a new, stable bank account. With this, the defence wallet has actively contributed to the partial preservation of the savings of the military. As is well known, the Board of Directors of the Honvéd Voluntary Supplementary Health Insurance Fund entrusted three quarters of the cashier's assets to a financial institution that promised tempting interest but represented a real risk to the cashier's members. Folk wisdom says that we should not store all the eggs in a single basket, so the management of the cashier did not do so, so the decisions of the cashier's management resulted in the loss of HUF 1.8 billion in savings. The responsibility for the damage caused lies solely and exclusively with health managers who have been strengthened by delegates in their positions. Thank you for your attention, and I ask the Member to accept this reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-256	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Márta Demeter if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-257	Secretary of State, I do not accept your answer. Defense workers, soldiers, national security workers, law enforcement workers - there's only one question - when do they get their money? Appreciation begins here, Mr. Secretary. I have received this answer, which you have just given, in writing from the Ministry of Defence, this diversion that there is neither authority nor opportunity to resolve the situation, that is not true. If the government and the majority have a political will to solve something, we have seen that, for example, in a Quaestor case, in order to avoid a major scandal, that Péter Szijjártó's buddy, or Csaba Tarsoly's doggy, caused this scandal, in order to avoid it, they were able to pass an interesting law, which was accepted and the compensation started. There we are talking about a hundred billion forints, 1.8 billion forints. So it's time for you to show that you can appreciate not only the daily work of law enforcement workers, as well as the army and the secret service workers in words. Thank you.
u2015-09-21-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 yes, 26 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title of "Abandoned Transcarpathia." On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary László Szabó will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Péter Szijjártó recently had a pleasant conversation in Budapest with Moskal Hennady, one of the largest survivors of the wars between the Ukrainian oligarchs, who had been governor of Transcarpathia for a few months. At this meeting, Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed appreciation for the results achieved by the Ukrainian Government in terms of the security of Transcarpathia. [[19.00]] Let me remind myself what these excellent results are. Despite the government's oral karate, cigarette smuggling and illegal logging continue to run smoothly, only the pockets of the profits have changed somewhat. On the other hand, Hungarians in Szabolcs-Szabolcs-Szatmár and Transcarpathia, who commute along the border, regularly wait 3-4 hours or even 4-5-6 hours, so that they can find themselves facing overworked, nervous customs, and, unfortunately, in many cases, not the most polite customsmen. According to the latest madness, citizens of countries not subject to visas, including Hungary, can stay in Ukraine for only 90 days in 180 days. They can then reverse or punish travelers. Is this, Mr. Secretary, an exemplary order? Small-scale harassment of swinging Hungarian families? In Transcarpathia, violent and illegal enlistments continue, and while young men are told not to be deployed on the front line, who wants to be sure is more likely to flee. The war continues to take on the Hungarian victims, and the Hungarians of Transcarpathia wait in vain for their own political leaders or the Hungarian government to stop the enlisting of Hungarian boys and men. Instead, you're just arguing on quotas. Departure has reached such an extent that in smaller villages and towns there is a shortage of educators. The Hungarian government, although happy to decide on extraordinary support, has not yet received the promised support from any teacher. As usual, educational and educational allowances for Hungarian school children are delayed, as well as preschool catering; by bad language, it is because the local branch organization of Fidesz would like to schedule their distribution to the upcoming local elections. The Hungarians in the Transcarpathia affected by war, drafts, border blocking, inflation of more than 50 percent and emigration should slowly prepare for the winter, which will start with a 450 percent increase in gas prices, which will obviously not be possible for most Hungarian families. Meanwhile, you, Fidesz's fake MEP Andrea Bochkor, who doesn't even have a reception office in his home country, completely ignores the issue of Transcarpathian Hungarians, instead worrying about the working conditions of seafarers and the health of French truck drivers. Well, that's a shame to send you to Brussels. I ask you, Secretary of State, when are you going to eliminate the untenable conditions of standing in line, what are you going to do to remove the 90-day rule, when are the promised education grants expected? And finally, when will the Hungarian government finally act in order to avoid enlisting Hungarians in Transcarpathia? I look forward to your substantive answers. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-261	Congressman! Thank you very much for your questions. Leaving Transcarpathia alone is not true. We are very concerned, and together we must worry about the survival of Transcarpathian Hungarians and hopefully their growth in the medium to long term. During bilateral discussions with Ukrainian partners, there is always a question of how to improve the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians and referred to the meeting with the Governor of Transcarpathia of Hennady Moskal. Among other things, the border issue and the difficulty of crossing the border have been raised, and we expressed our wish that the border crossing point of Beregsurány-Luzsanka or Astral be extended by international freight transport as soon as possible. The Záhony-Csop traffic would thus also be relieved, so this would certainly be a good step forward. At the same time, the road bypassing Beregszász needs to be built and the road between Beregszász-Munkács refurbished. To finance this, the Hungarian Government has offered to help Eximbank and we are trying to give the Ukrainian Government a financial opportunity that they can use as soon as possible. We are also ready to open a new border crossing point in the Nagyhodos-Nagypalad region. It is worth noting that in February 2015, Ukraine asked for Hungary's support for the submission of an EU CEF application for the Beregszász bypass trip - Connecting Europe Facility, which we immediately provided. On 9 October 2003, the agreement between the Hungarian Government and Ukraine was signed in Kiev on the conditions for citizens' travel, and Article 4 of this agreement is still valid. On this basis, Hungarian citizens with valid travel documents may enter the territory of Ukraine without a visa and stay there for at least 90 days in total within six months of the date of first entry, and Ukrainian border guards are practically trying to comply with this agreement. With regard to the pedagogical support programme, I can say that this proposal was a great success, with the invitation more than three thousand proposals proposed for funding were received from the participating organisation, the Charity Foundation of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia. The Bethlen Gábor Fund is currently preparing its Commission decisions on this. The Bethlen Gábor Fund's decision was also made in August in relation to the child catering allowance for the Hungarian kindergartens in Transcarpathia, and the good news is that the bank cards have already been produced to the beneficiaries and the payments will start soon. The transfer of education and training support has already been made to the operator on the basis of the decision taken by the BGA Committee and the scheduled payment has already started for the applicants. Payment of grants under the programmes is never subject to political events. So as soon as it's possible to make payments, these things happen. One more short comment on the enlistment: the Hungarian government pays particular attention to the situation of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia due to the crisis in Ukraine, according to the Hungarian organisations in Transcarpathia, the former tension in the context of the mobilization is currently underway, and the mobilisation does not disproportionately affect the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. Therefore, they did not require the Hungarian government to take action, and the President of Ukraine, Petro Porosenko, indicated in the press that he would postpone the further mobilisation. I hope you find my answer reassuring. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-262	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman István Szávay if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-263	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To be honest, I appreciate that, in contrast to most of these interpellations, at least he really tried to answer questions and explained everything I asked. I really appreciate that, and I still can't accept your answer, because in many places I didn't get a meaningful answer. Secretary of State, border crossing is not basically the problem, so we should not talk about how Ukrainians enter and whether there are enough border crossings. The problem is with us, Mr. Secretary. We don't have enough customs, we don't have enough people to ensure the smoothness of the border crossing. We have said this on several occasions, and we should not refer here to agreements with Ukrainians, but to the Hungarian government to resolve this issue. With regard to the residence in Transcarpathia, Mr Secretary of State, you should also not be presenting the Convention, which we already know, but that will be a serious problem, because many people who have travelled with Hungarian passports will not be able to stay home in their own country of origin after that, and will not be able to go home. As regards the enlistments, do not refer to the leader of the Transcarpathian Hungarians, ask the Hungarian people of Transcarpathia, the Hungarian mothers and wives of Transcarpathia, whether they want to release their sons and their husbands into war on the basis of any quota. We cannot accept any quota, one single Hungarian victim is many. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. That's why I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 109 yes, 22 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Representatives of Mr Sallai R. Benedek and Mr István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office:, How can they allow the school system to fail? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on behalf of Prime Minister Rétvári, will respond to the interpellation. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center has been in a close state of bankruptcy. He's rolling a billion-dollar tax debt, and the Ministry of Human Resources is breaking records on debt. Minister Zoltán Balog, according to the statement of the Hungarian State Treasury, sits on a debt tip of more than 50 billion, the funding of human areas is unsustainable after a hundred billion years of austerity, and this is felt very well in schools as well. [[19.10]] We are constantly getting signs that wages are slipping, pay the allowances. We have received a letter from the school district in which schools were forbidden to use the post office, and instead public workers bring and carry the letter. We have also read the instruction in which the purchase of basic educational tools was prohibited. The purchase of press products and professional journals is not allowed either. In connection with the debts, it has been ordered in several places that only the oldest bills are allowed to be paid. Companies and suppliers can run after their money for a while. Since then, examples continue to multiply, and because of lack of money, they also trick with credit card fees or replacement payments. When we asked the Ministry of Human Resources about KLIK's bankruptcy in the summer, State Secretary Bence Rétvári himself admitted that details - and I quote - cannot be given an informative response. He refused to disclose any exact amount, monthly breakdown, or the distribution of the debt. Or maybe they're not so high up that they don't even know how much debt they're in? That is why we turned to Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who, although he also left several of our questions unanswered, told us that at the end of August KLIK was in debt of nearly 8 billion, with which he was still top ranking on the public debt list of state institutions. I would have asked the Prime Minister's Office if he hadn't directed the question to the EMMI, why we wouldn't have received these answers, because these answers obviously go beyond the scope of the EMMI. Clearly, we expected this response from a man who was also responsible for coordinating the government's work, passing through the powers of some ministries. Dear Secretary of State, With a great deal of misery, we can extract any information from the government about the KLIK's bankruptcy like hot potatoes, they pass the responsibility around each other. We're looking at a fire extinguisher. In such a framework, we see that this debt will be generated over and over again. How could they let the school system go bankrupt? Without money, how will you finally be XXI. 100th century Hungarian education? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause? Intercom from the pro-government benches, Iron Claps! Miklós Soltés applauds.]]
u2015-09-21-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is worth taking care of the use of the word; talking about a bankruptcy there, when KLIK pays more than last year's wages by HUF 38 billion, I think I can't. Rather, I think that we should all be pleased, honourable Member, that the honour of teachers will increase again in September this year, which means that they will bring home more by 3.4 percent. I think it should be welcomed that more people from educator I. to educator II are all master teachers, and more are rehearsing with different tools, with their own performance, portfolioing or other higher wages and higher prestige within the pedagogical society. When talking about KLIK, never forget that we are talking about Hungary's largest employer. I don't know how many institutions in Central Europe are equal to them, or a company or company or anything else, because the 130,000 people who work there as educators, I think, are quite a big deal. It is very important that not only did teachers receive this new wage increase due from September 1st this year - as they received last year and the year before last year, with a total value of HUF 120 billion, worth HUF 32 billion before that year - but those who are not in the pedagogical profession received it as part of a 50 thousand HUF extra-wage allowance. So they can take more home, too. This is not a sign of bankruptcy either, honourable Member, that every employee of the KLIK makes more money this year than he made last year, the smallest earner and the highest earner make more. The person who asked for his qualification, who made an effort to do his job better, can earn up to 50-60-80 thousand forints more this year than they did last year. As regards the payment of individual items, since you asked the question during the summer, these have been settled. On July 28th, non-regular personal benefits were paid. These include work expenses, jubilee bonuses, commission fees, bank account management compensation and other non-regular personal benefits, worth HUF 2.6 billion. I can also refer to what has already been said, that we have also increased the textbook liability allowance to multiples. You were obviously prepared for September with an interpellation about who didn't get their textbooks after September 1, September 2, but this kind of interpellation doesn't appear in this room because it went well three weeks ago, and although the opposition prepared and harassed its own press all summer to discuss the delivery of textbooks in another scandal, fortunately it wasn't an open opportunity, but it was fine. On 31 July, Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center settled its new utility debts worth 1.9 billion HUF. On 3 August he paid HUF 1.5 billion to E.ON, on 4 August he paid HUF 602 million to Tigas. Also on 4 August, towards GDF Suez, almost 500 million forints, and on 5 August 653 million forints. So during the summer, where it could be, these bills, these debts were paid by KLIK. However, the KLIK is, of course, in such a way that it is more difficult than it once was for the municipal maintainers to ensure the same conditions for schools in the maintenance of settlements that were previously more difficult than for any other school. For this reason, a higher level should, of course, be ensured in terms of quality allowances, training courses and further training. We trust that this will benefit the entire country, but it obviously means this kind of extra spending to the KLIK. But just like in the previous years, this year, the government has ensured the stable functioning of the KLIK, which is why the teachers have received and received their increased wages in the coming weeks. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-268	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr István Ikotity if he will accept the answer.
u2015-09-21-269	When we turn to the Prime Minister's Office, we get answers more or less to acknowledge the existence of the problem. Unfortunately, the EMMI provides us with regular responses where this does not happen. The institution, however large it is, that owes its suppliers 12.5 billion in the middle of the summer, which is then reduced to 8 billion at the end of a glorious process, and talking about it being a well-functioning institution, is much easier than saying that this is a close-up situation. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] And that, unfortunately, brands the entire education system. Just think that this system, those suppliers, will not receive these amounts and how they will be delivered in the next period. Prime Minister said here this morning that there are problems that need to be resolved, and there are things that can be handled. The sad thing is, they're trying to deal with this problem instead of finding a solution. I can't accept the answer.
u2015-09-21-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstentions. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we have the opportunity to say two more interpellations. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In view of the important role of stalling and health care, the delay that has been known as the casting of the State Secretary of Health since August 27 is also unworthy of its title, as on this day Dr. Gábor Zombor, State Secretary for Health, resigned, and on this day he joined the demoted Fidesz health policy team in which Gabriella Selmeczi, former Minister Mikola, and even Mikola Szócska, were mentioned after a year's work. Of course, as is usually the case after a resignation, there were immediately self-proclaimed candidates and guesses about who the next candidates might be. [[19.20]] The otherwise significant health news portal named 14 such names, including Andrea Ficzere, but we could mention István Mikola once again and say, for example, Principal Velkey or Mr Ónodi-Szűcs as one of these candidates. Of course, the only thing left to think of was that Judit Csehák, Judit Csehák, was Judit Csehák, who had been forgotten, brought to this position. What is more worrying and one of the very important and bad messages of stalling for health is the historic coincidence when Csaba Hende resigned, or who knows what led him to resign, and on that day they named his successor, the minister, but they also named his successor, the newly appointed minister and the minister who took the oath today, the Secretary of State responsible for sport, who was also known by the majority of public opinion and curious men's eyes. And this awkward silence and waiting [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] The silence and waiting that characterizes the government's health policy means one thing: neither Viktor Orbán nor the political circles behind it are prepared to address the most important health challenges. Since 27 August, we have not known what the future Secretary of State for Health's response is and how he will try to approach the debt that has been accumulated again, which, despite the fall of 60 billion, is now at HUF 39 billion according to the end of July data, based on the data of the Treasury. We also do not know how the future Health Secretary intends to manage the health career model, what will happen to the salary of health workers, whether there will be an increase, whether the increase may be built into the basic wage. But there are many more answers to be answered by the Secretary of State. Doesn't it embarrass you to listen for three weeks to the new Secretary of State for Health? Who do you think is winning: Viktor Orbán or the circle of János Lázár? Will he be personally responsible for this silence? And when will they break the awkward silence and announce the new Secretary of State for Health? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister of State, Bence Rétvári, will answer his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman! Dear House, Firstly, with regard to the two secretary-general, I would like to reject this unparalleled speech, Member. First of all, I think that Gábor Zombor should thank you for what you've done over the past year in the field of health care. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you are thinking about the debt of hospitals, whether you are thinking about organizing county management, or about the extra resources provided to ambulances, or you can say a lot more, his name is also linked to the completion and closure of the 500 billion-dollar development. I think it's been a very good achievement for him in a year, and we're losing a lot of money by making this personal decision, obviously, to protect his own health, but I think there's a very, very productive year behind it. [[He replaced Adam Mirkóczki in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]] I would particularly like to reject, even on the basis of human dignity, what you said to the Secretary of State for Sport. I believe that such tasteless remarks do not belong here in the building of the Hungarian Parliament. And it's weird for me that, as an interpellation, you've put on such little personal guesses, a little slip-up. The Fidesz-KDNP will decide who will be the State Secretary for Health, this is between Minister Zoltán Balog, Prime Minister, and they will make this decision together, and the President of the Republic will appoint him. I hope that Jobbik will never give Hungary the Secretary of State for Health or the Minister for Health, but until then, such personal guesses will be retained within the faction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-274	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László György Lukács if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-275	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer. Back to what you just said here, what you'd be happy about. Well, I don't know if they're gonna be happy about Jobbik, if any, in health care, that, say, next year and the next year, they're gonna be eating up a secretary of state, and joining his populous camp for fidesz fallen health politicians; that's something to talk about. Because that's what's going on in health care right now: you don't have a fundamental concept of how to deal with it. For the Orbán government in the second cycle, too, health seems to be a pain in the ass. You didn't do anything else, you repeatedly wasted time, instead of naming someone, you would have said that Orbán's circle or the circle of Lazarus might win in this, whether there will be an industrial lobbyist as Secretary of State, or if there will be a former health politician as appropriate. It is finally time to name who it is and in what direction they intend to continue health care, because it is unworthy and unsafe for health. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is Hungarianless!]]
u2015-09-21-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman László György Lukács did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 19 against and 2 abstentions. [[Noise. There's more people talking standing up.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Magyar... my fellow Members, I would like to ask for a moment of patience and silence in order to bring the end of the interpellation to a normal level here! So, Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Without authorization, they will spread the state land and thus unduly zero the remainder of the national wealth? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of September, I also had the opportunity to say, in the form of an interpellation, that both Jobbik and civil society organisations received the government's draft privatisation of state land with serious doubts and fierce protests. However, this outrage is not a coincidence, for such a level of full service to the nation is unacceptable in our view. Unfortunately, with you, the greed of the moonyard overrides everything, written and unwritten. Nor does it show that even the agricultural politicians of their own parliamentary group have been divided, for example, Béla Turi-Kovács, the national president of the Kisgazda Civic Association, says in his letter of membership that he is opposed to the planned privatisation, because it does not help small and medium-sized family economies. Then the question arises as to who is helped by the draft. In our opinion, most of the oligarchs and kissers close to Fidesz, who were also successfully supplied with state land and EU funds by the programme called "the farmer," while families were destroyed, livestock was lost and more than 11 percent of the agricultural sector fell. But there is no guarantee that, in a few years' time, the state land that is now being auctioned will not be in the hands of foreigners, since they did not even dare to include it in the land law, and as we learned about the leaked draft, this does not contain enough guarantees. It is also suspicious that they want to end up selling state land at unprecedented speed. It is also revealing, since they expect that by the time the public notices this matter after the migrant news campaign, it will be too late. How can it be that the government and the Chamber have taken the idea of the President of Magos out of their heads and want to carry it out a few months before the planned auctions, that none of the farmers could have known the details? We heard from the Prime Minister today that he said he had finally signed this draft today. But, Mr. Secretary, why the undue haste? Of course, I do not think it is excluded, and it can even be enveloped, that the users of the largest public areas, your kissers, have been aware of and prepared to do so for a long time. It would be nice if the real intentions were finally brought to light. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State when to withdraw this outrage. Why was it so urgent to auction these state lands as soon as possible? Why hasn't the farmers been informed of this in time? Why didn't we get to know the specifics? And I'm asking you, what is the need for this land-privatisation? How do you feel about making your earlier promises? How's this demographic land program gonna work? How will this be a social land program? How do you get a job in the country? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, will answer the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[19.30]]
u2015-09-21-279	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In your current interpellation, you share with us information about the planned sale of state land that you, who knows what uncontrolled and uncredited source you obtained. After all, you heard the Prime Minister's signature today, so today the plan was final. He accuses the government of building a landlord system, consisting of the holders who are loyal to him. Once again, I must draw the Member's attention to the fact that only Hungarian citizens resident locally who are considered farmers can participate in the planned auctions, who demonstrate that they do not reach a land-owner's maximum of 300 hectares under the Land Traffic Act. The maximum legal acquisition of 300 hectares applies to all natural persons, including the head of the legal person's tenant. More than 80 percent of the real estate planned to be announced in the programme, and I would like to repeat, my fellow Member, more than 80 percent of the real estate planned to be advertised is less than 10 hectares. Do you think these small fields below 10 hectares will be the basis for the land lord system? It's impossible, isn't it? The government aims to support family farmers. We do not strike upon such dubious laurels as the former governments, who have actually implemented the large-scale ownership system in Hungary, for which the government is constantly struggling both with the recently announced sales programme and with the successful operation of the land for farmers since 2010. It also expresses its concern that after the sale, which according to your information will be completed in October this year, these areas will be in the hands of foreigners. I hope that it is quite comforting for the Member that the properties sold are subject to a 20-year disposal and debit ban and that the Hungarian State has the right to buy back for the same time. The closure of the sales programme in October is simply not true; once again, it is an air assumption. The Government will continue to take the necessary measures to prepare, conduct and inform stakeholders about the sales programme. You can also find out about the specific conditions and the list of properties to be sold from the notices to be published publicly, i.e. an equal chance for everyone to get to know the details of the program. I would also like to share with the Member that the real need on the part of farmers to acquire land is the reason for the sale of state land to the extent that it can develop viable farmland into a competitive family economy. The NFA continues to sell land of less than 3 hectares, and it can be concluded that in most cases 3-4 offers are also received. Do you think that this is not enough motivation for farmers to start farming their own land as soon as possible or to make public sales as soon as possible? Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-280	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Zoltán Magyar to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, they're talking about 380,000 acres. It doesn't matter what division we're talking about. [[Dr. István Nagy: You don't know how to put it together!]] That's 380,000 acres. It's basically the entire state of the land. And the fact that the 300-hectare purchase limit will be checked: it wasn't checked during the leases, Mr. Secretary of State. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] There's still the fact that your little kisses are the whole family, the whole family. Its reliable range was included in this land grabbing for leases. The same will be done for sales, even because they are loaded areas. Obviously, it will be worth the first round of applications to those who have the right to pre-empt and, on the other hand, to be charged to them. So these are not arguments and are unacceptable. If they do this, they will keep one single election promise: they will really help family economies, but they forgot to tell us earlier that this will only affect a few families that are related to you. [[Crying from the benches of Fidesz: What don't you understand? A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-21-282	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. That's why I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply with 105 votes in favour, 22 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We're at the end of the interpellations. After a brief technical break, we will continue our work with debates. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Following is the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment presented to the European Union's leaders. Our colleagues from Rogán Antal, Gulyás Gergely, Tuzson Bence, Németh Szilárd István, Font Sándor, Völner Pál, Bánki Erik and Vas Imre fideszes, Móring József Attila, Harrach Péter and Firtl Mátyás KDNP submitted H/5984. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 16 September, H/5984. The Commission has discussed the proposal for a decision to the leaders of the European Union and has submitted a proposal for an amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, unanimously. The summarised amendment contained only a proposal for technical clarifications from the Committee on European Affairs. I believe that the message is clear: in the context of the migration crisis that has arisen, the European Union's inactionary negligence must be brought to the attention of European leaders. To say that, I ask for your support. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Károly Kontra reporting.]] Yes, Mr Károly Kontrat has the opportunity to speak in a ten-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-21-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government supports the resolution proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-21-286	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The rapporteur for the Committee on Selected European Affairs can now speak in a six-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Tessely, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-287	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on European Affairs, as a designated committee, held on 10 September 2015 a detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision to be addressed to the leaders of the European Union. The Committee, examining the proposal for a decision, concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. [[19.40]] the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.(19.40) With regard to the obligations arising from EU law, the rapporteur pointed out in the detailed debate that it was necessary to clearly point out the need to rethink the immigration policy of the European Union. The rapporteur also said that protecting the external borders of the European Union is not only a legitimate political objective, but also an obligation arising from our Schengen membership. At the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, the representative of the Government also explained that the Union has not yet found the right answer to the challenges of illegal immigration across the continents, although the effective solution, the removal of the problem, is only found in joint, united, strong and decisive action. The committee during the in-depth discussion of the resolution house rule 45. H/5984-2. My basically technical, language-like amendments. The amendments were supported by representatives of both the national and government. The Committee shall be composed of 45 HSPs. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5, the supported representatives submitted a proposal for a Commission amendment, which closed a detailed debate. The report on the detailed debate was adopted unanimously by the Committee without voting against. The detailed debate was closed on 10 September 2015. I would also ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the motion as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-288	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speakers will now take part in the time frame on the agenda, which will be divided into 17 minutes for Fidesz, 8 minutes for KDNP, 9 minutes for MSZP, 9 minutes for Jobbik, 5 minutes for LMP and 2 minutes for independents. I would like to inform my fellow Members that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, I call on Mr Adam Mirkóczki, the notary of Parliament, to speak on behalf of the Group of Jobbik.
u2015-09-21-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On this proposal for a decision, we expressed our views during the general debate on how this is a supplementary act and, if it is not intended to be a supplementary act, how and how it should be put in concrete terms. We fundamentally believe - in agreement with the objective and the action to strengthen borders, the security of Hungary, the protection and promotion of the sense of security of Hungarian residents - that this is important, necessary and there are further steps, but this proposal for a resolution does not fit into this system in any way. If a political statement is made, which is meant to be, I presume to draw attention either to EU leaders or to the various political leaders in the world about the truth, the reasons and the things to do, what and how to do it, then do it in an exact and precise way. The European Union can be criticised for many things, the European Union is responsible for many things, and it also has a direct and indirect role, in particular in dealing with the effect, namely that it is impotent and dilettant in all aspects of dealing with or not dealing with the whole immigration problem, but the European Union is less responsible, particularly directly, for the development of crisis zones in North Africa or the Middle East. So if you want to make a political statement about who, why and how this is due, you should also look outside the European Union and identify those responsible outside the European Union. And if you want to write the truth, do it correctly, and write the role of Hungary in this respect, and not the role of Hungary, but your responsibility. Here, with the exception of Jobbik and perhaps LMP, all parties who voted in favour of, supported various international missions who voted in favour of, supported aggressive actions that have contributed to the inequalities, tensions, chaotic conditions that have developed in these crisis zones in different parts of the world, and which have led to millions of people on the road, and now we are drinking the burden. Here, the role of the United States of America is not small, but at least large. You have now forgotten this in a very strange way, and because of the various calls for attention, it was not important to mention this at least in parentheses. As a word to my fellow Member, I would perhaps just like to add that the leaders of the European Union, as members of the People's Party or the People's Party family, must not send messages but act. Ask or be held accountable to their own MEPs, what specifics they have done in Brussels, what proposals have been made to the leaders of the People's Party, what proposals have been made and how the European Union has dealt with the established opportunities. We continue to believe that this is a pitiful whining, a substitute act, not to send messages, but to act. We will, of course, be constructive partners in the actions, as we have done so far, in this arrogance, but we do not want to add much to your affairs. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Varju, who spoke in two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-291	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, This draft resolution, which my fellow Members have submitted here, I think is one of the embarrassments of what they have done in the past, for several reasons. On the one hand, they irresponsiblely shift responsibility to others without confronting reality, what should be done and how to act as a European person, as a Hungarian person, with fellow citizens who need help and ask for protection. In fact, citing your draft, for the situation that has arisen, it is safe to say that the government is responsible. Hungary is a political disgrace to everything that has happened here. As they do, this morning's debate is just the opposite of what is being written here. Since the European Union is unable - I quote your reasoning - we have heard from Prime Minister this morning that Hungary is bound by international treaties on how and how to act. But in this procedure, you ignore the real facts, and in your proceedings, you work with the force and try to operate with it. Without force, they are unable to solve the problem, leaving the pepper spray, the baton, the tear gas and the water cannon. In fact, they're acting like blind comons instead of making a human solution and applying it. And then you'd have to be less lying and face the fact that 450 people who checked in, on the other hand, 20,000 people crossed the border in the last few days. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z.Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-293	Mr President, Dear House, This is when I take a deep breath and try to move past the words of my independent colleague before me. It was also talkative that he called migrants his fellow citizens, of whom one hundred people arrived at our borders during a weekend. So this also indicates that the weight of the problem is a bit greater than that of you having dinner fights with them - right, your party leader. If it really was refugees who were received at this dinner battle, then perhaps the lowest human thing is to turn those who are really in distress into PR and campaign elements. So we have to tell you that we are trying to take this issue a little more seriously. I would add, even under a clause in the Geneva Convention, the asylum seeker must cooperate with the authorities of the host country. [[19.50]] So if this cooperation is to be done in stone throwing and other forms, then it proves that the strength of the action is necessary, and perhaps we should take a slightly different approach to this situation. But in order not to throw that particular ball among ourselves, it is clear that here we should argue about government papyros and the pamphlet that you wish to send to the west now, even though it is not so easy to define the responsibilities. It is indeed striking that the government is avoiding the responsibility of the United States, and it is very rare to hear from the mouth of a pro-government representative that the situation that has emerged and, indeed, in these criticalities, the United States of America is at least trying to appease the vast sea of trouble that it left behind. We can also see how it is possible to point a finger at Brussels, and I do not say that this is without any basis, I do not say that the behaviour of central Europe, the behaviour of the central Member States of the European Union, has not greatly contributed to the catastrophic situation that we are facing now, but I do say that it should not send them pamphlets, but that it should take real action in a real field of action, for example, to clarify your relationship with quota-like solutions, for example, to clarify your relationship with repatriations; so to state here and now whether the Fidesz-KDNP is willing to take back a single migrant under quota or to repatriate after deportation, perhaps to try to integrate, as the Liberals expect in many cases. That is why we can say that there is something to be done in this area of action, there is something to be done towards Western Europe, because there is a very sharp danger that, after Europe is the Western part, which has been pushing for increased immigration for three or four generations, and that as many people as possible should come to the labour market shortages, after it has skimmed off immigrants, it will certainly try to disperse those with whom it cannot do anything on the periphery. And although two weeks ago we could count four German positions within a week, one of these German positions was that all Syrians should come and settle everyone, one day later they would just back down a bit when the main station was full, and then they would back down a lot. However, it can be said that in the case of popular Syrians - it is true that more and more migrants claim to be so - even for them in Germany, the rejection rate for asylum applications is above 65%. So it's okay to try to settle 35 percent in some way, to integrate it, because that hundreds of no-go zones perfectly prove that it's an unintegrated mass, which is respect for the exception, but doesn't want to fit into the body of Europe. But what you need to see is that if only 65 percent of the remaining is scattered around the periphery and you, say, take in a few of them by quota, this year, the number of deportees is crawling to thousands, nothing will rule out that in the coming years it will not be thousands, tens of thousands. So now we could prevent this process from happening, which is why we are asking you not to send empty political pamphlet towards the European Union, but to make these decisions in this real field of action, which are very difficult decisions. We right-handers are clearly in favour of the principle of zero tolerance, so we say that no repatriated migrants should be received, and that no one who was not Hungary's destination should be relocated by quota, and he did not want to come here, so let's not accept that they want to be sent back here. However, we would expect the government to manifest itself in this area and not to exhaust its activity in sending poor political pamphlet. We really hope you'll see that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Lény; he will be followed by Mr Richárd Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The House's proposal for a resolution before the House is called "Message to the Leaders of the European Union." If I may, I would like to take a general political look at this first, if I may say so. I think it is particularly harmful when we are sending messages to the leaders of the European Union, and this is also the message that my fellow Members at the committee meeting have already said - it is just an answer to the fact that Hungary and the Hungarian Government, or even the Hungarian Prime Minister, have been critical of the leaders of the European Union or even of the European Union Member States. I think we shouldn't be texting, because texting is kind of like punching people in a bar fight that usually starts with the other guy fighting back. I don't think this texting is gonna do any good, that's not what's gonna get this thing going. I do not mean to call it a problem, but rather I would say that this is a tumultuous issue with regard to the European Union, which is happening around us today, because it is not a problem, but people, and these people are coming from something, and they are fleeing. But I think, although, as I have said, the title of "The Message to the leaders of the European Union" is rather not to send a message to the leaders of the Union or to the leaders of the EU Member States, but it would be an internal political message, which wants to convey the feeling to the Hungarian population or to give the feeling that the government is doing everything, and the government is really standing on its heels here, and that is something that the Prime Minister has seen and heard many times before, when he says that we are Hungarians, we are protecting everything from everyone, and we are also fighting against the European Union if we have to. If we were to adopt the House Rule proposal for a resolution, the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted another House Rule proposal to the House, where it is more relevant, content, not just political messages, or, let us say, a resolution proposal full of political lounges, because of what it could be classified as when we are merely making political wordings in the House Rule proposal for a resolution, you do, sorry that the European Union is responsible for everything, your irresponsible policy is responsible for everything. If we are already adopting a decision-making house regulation proposal, then we should rather point this matter out to the solution, let us say, just that everyone can see and know that this thing called Dublin III, which regulates asylum procedures, is not workable, it is not designed for this problem. I could also say, according to the Hungarian legislation already in force today, that this Dublin III regulation was not designed for the crisis caused by mass immigration, because it would, operating in a different system, predicate asylum procedures to be affected by far fewer people on the basis of another line of thought. Let's just say Dublin III. The way he is, he's out of control, he's gone, he's not fit. There are several ways to put it, and in this we would rather ask our fellow European Union partners to cooperate to change this. Or, for example, in our House Rule proposal for a resolution, let us say that the refugee camps that are on the outskirts of Syria or, let us say, in the refugee camps to which these people have fled, we should address the problem at a level where, by providing more resources there, we would try to provide help and care to these people, as we have heard several times that, for example, the situation in refugee camps in Turkey, the largest of these countries or one of the most affected countries, is getting worse today, as the provision of money to refugees is taking place every day. Or should we say, in the resolution proposal, what is a good - how should I put it? - a far-reaching thing, a much bigger and geopolitical issue and military issues, that we should eliminate the problem that makes these people leave their own homeland and wish to leave where they live. So I think that there could be a lot of things that can be put into this House Rule proposal for a resolution. What you have just presented to this House, I think it is just a political message that you want to put forward without any substantial suggestions for a solution to content, and, as I have said, it appears more as an internal political message, where we want it to be towards the Hungarian population, and Parliament will want to express the message that, indeed, we are going to fight everyone here. This is a characteristic of the old freedom fighter rhetoric for you. I think that, as European Union citizens or as European citizens, we should rather seek a solution. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, in the minutes, I respectfully ask you to classify it as a parliamentary motion for a resolution, and Mr. Congressman misused it, and it must have slipped his tongue that a decision was made by the House Rules. [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Decision proposal, sorry.]] So there's no problem, it's just a motion for a parliamentary resolution. Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Richárd Hörcsik is next. Here you go, Congressman. [[20.00]]
u2015-09-21-297	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So at the end of the debate, I would like to continue where my fellow Member Zsolt Legény left off. This political message is indeed an unusual genre in the life of the Hungarian Parliament. This has never been the case for the Hungarian Parliament to send a message to the leaders of the European Union. But I believe that the situation itself is unusual and extraordinary, which has emerged in relation to asylum, not only in Hungary but also in Europe. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I do not want to over-dimensify the importance or weight of this proposal for a resolution, that it is good or not, that it could have been better, could have been more. That's not the point. The point is, yes, it's a wake-up call. And we also agree with my fellow Member, Zsolt Legény, on what we, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, can do in this situation. It's one of many things we have to do. It is important that national parliaments have a responsibility to European affairs, and they have a responsibility to what the European Commission might say, because this is what the so-called red or green card was designed for, which we will now discuss with my fellow Commission Presidents in the European Union on 30th next month in Luxembourg. So we have a responsibility to warn the European Union, if you like, that in certain orders or proposals, more specifically, in the proposals of the European Commission, it is not always correct to put it briefly. For example, the so-called EPPO was the first time in the history of the Hungarian Parliament to show red cards with Chambers and Parliaments of 16 other countries that it did not comply with proportionality or subsidiarity. We had a voice. And I believe that this is another opportunity for the Hungarian Parliament, which is what it is now saying: we have the opportunity to call on the leaders of the European Union, namely the European Commission, that this is a real problem. Otherwise, I believe that the events have already gone beyond this warning or call. In any case, it is important to note that we have a responsibility to call on the leaders of the European Union, namely the European Commission, to make a decision. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-298	Welcome. Good evening. We'll get back to work. The representative of the MSZP, Mr Attila Mesterházy, is next as a representative requesting a normal word. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-299	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Listening to the words of my fellow Member Mr Hörchik, Mr President, I would say that this is an outdated decision. Apparently, Fidesz did this out of a first passion when it was still in the problem that they were trying to stimulate the mood as part of a hate campaign, but this proposal for a resolution, this message, is no longer relevant. There would be a message to which Mr President has referred, which would have relevance if, for example, we adopted a resolution such as that which my fellow Member Zsolt Legény spoke about, which was submitted by the MSZP, which would strengthen the position of the Prime Minister and his political support at the next EU summit, where appropriate. We have tried to collect these and to submit a proposal for a decision that would create a consensus on what should be done in Europe, how to improve and manage this situation. I think this kind of consensus national support might have been good for the Prime Minister, but we understand that you did not want to deal with it. But I'd also like to give you an idea for another resolution proposal, if we're about to send a message. If, for example, the Hungarian Parliament were to talk about it, it would adopt such a proposal as to what kind of criticisms were worth undeservingly in some cases Hungary from the neighbouring countries, whether it is Romania, Croatia, Austria or Serbia, then I would say that there could be a parliamentary consensus behind this, to draw attention to the fact that this type of escalation of the issue does not help to solve the problem. But a little bit of thinking about the lyrics itself, let me highlight five or six points. It is quite narrow-minded - I think my better fellow Member referred to this - simply to say that the European Union is responsible for this issue alone. Let me say a few other countries: Russia, USA, Iran, and we could even say from the region a number of countries that at least share this responsibility in some form. Not to mention that if people die because of Brussels' irresponsible policy, this is about as simplistic as saying that Muslim religion is responsible for terrorism, because there are people who are Muslim and terrorists at the same time. The other is that, with the hope of a better life, European Union politicians are promising. Well, please, I've been looking forward to Facebook and television and a lot of things. I do not think that it is necessary for any European politician to realize that Germany can live better than Syria or Turkey. As is the stupidity of endangering the workplace of Hungarians. 99.9 percent want to leave Hungary, so there is no threat to any job here. And now I think that it is outdated, and it is bad for you, too, that part of the proposal for a decision is to call on the Hungarian Government to create the necessary financial resources. We should not charge Hungarian resources with this, but we should demand more money from European Union funds, and the Hungarian government is doing this part quite rightly. So we should not spend any more on this from Hungarian sources, but we should work and lobby to have as much EU funding as possible for these tasks and not spend the money of Hungarian taxpayers. Therefore, I would normally suggest to you, and I would have suggested that you withdraw this proposal earlier, because this does not make any sense in this form, and we therefore do not support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-21-300	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP faction, is coming. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'd pick up where Attila Mesterházy started. The fact is that in such a sharpened foreign policy climate or in a crisis situation in the European Union, the government would do well to try to reach a broader parliamentary agreement than its support. That is why we have also initiated a five-party consultation, not simply to deal with the migration crisis, but to discuss the position and national strategy of the Hungarian Prime Minister in Brussels. Compared to this, not only did the five-party conciliation initiative not receive any signal from the Prime Minister's Office, but on Wednesday the Hungarian Prime Minister will go to the most important EU summit in the past period without even having called the consultation meeting. So the Hungarian Prime Minister does not even comply with the type of conciliation or consultation process, which, by the way, is usually observed before the A-normal EU summits. And indeed, the situation is that, while Hungary was quarantined with a full diplomatic spree, we could hear a number of accusations from other countries for which it would have been appropriate to establish a clear Hungarian position more widely than Fidesz-KDNP. You didn't even try to do that. Just as Hungary's interest in Brussels - probably none - is affected not only by this government, but also by the consequences of several cycles. The fact that, in practice, numbers are already being assigned to the Bem quay, when which ambassador can receive the list of protests from Péter Szijjártó, I think it will cause damage in the long term, and it will damage Hungarian interests in unpredictable situations. It would be in Hungary's interest to have increased support for the protection of the Schengen borders from the European Union, and indeed to enforce a policy that the Hungarian Prime Minister himself stated this weekend that the European Union should strengthen Turkey's position, and not least Lebanon's position in providing refugees with decent conditions in these two neighbouring countries. It is important to talk about Lebanon because the state machine in the Republic of Lebanon is on the verge of collapse. One and a half million people live in refugee camps in Lebanon; I leave it to everyone's imagination what happens when a flood starts from there. [[20.10]] And one more thing: Hungary would also have an elemental interest in the European Union taking on certain diplomatic burdens from the front countries, such as the renegotiation of the deportation agreements at EU level with Serbia, Macedonia and the other non-EU Member States. It would be good to talk about them in a meaningful way, and it would be good to agree such a negotiation strategy for the five factions. This is not the way you choose, however, but this genre, the message from Parliament to the leaders of the European Union, is roughly in the province of comedy. Among the leaders of the European Union is a person who is a member of the Council of Europe, who is called Viktor Orbán. One of the leading bodies of the European Union is the Gremen of Heads of State or Government. It is precisely that we should not be sending messages to the leaders of the European Union with idiotic proposals for a resolution, but the Hungarian leader of the European Union should convene parliamentary parties and indeed attempt to bring together a national consensus behind the Hungarian position to be taken in Brussels. And I have already said in the general debate, we have said that the story is completely wrong if you are here merely trying to send messages to the European Union. In the fact that Europe is facing this crisis, of course, the European Union has a responsibility, Hungary has a responsibility, because the former Hungarian governments have followed the war policy that was dictated by the United States of America as a loyal csahos, which is why we have reason to be absorbed. You're part of this circle. I would like to recall the debate on military participation against the Islamic State, where there has been a great consensus between liberal parties and Fidesz-KDNP, but we have to face the fact that during the last decade and a half, democracy exports have practically been robbed of resources in the Middle East. That's what the story was about, and until we learn from it, this comedy won't do us much good. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-302	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon is sitting here. [[For signal:]] Yeah, Congressman, as a pointer. Even better, Congressman Vas Imre, as rapporteur. You have almost 10 minutes to give your opinion. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-303	Thank you very much for the floor. Those who may be watching the debate on television have now discussed the Commission reports and the summary amendment proposal on the agenda "Message to the leaders of the European Union." The summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee consists of virtually three points to correct three spelling errors. If someone has not heard a debate about this on television, then do not run into the ears, because my fellow Members have repeated the general debate, but in the general debate my fellow Member Tuzson has already responded to the problems raised there. So, unfortunately, I have nothing to answer. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the resolution proposal. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-09-21-304	Thank you very much for your valuable contribution, which has also helped me with the meetings. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 follows a debate. The T/4850. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Mr L. Simon László Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[L. Simon László: No.]] It says no. In that case, I'd like to inform you that you have 10 minutes at the closing. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Budgets, I inform you, has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. I would first like to give the floor to the Member who has applied in advance in writing. As the speaker announced in advance, Mr Vantara Gyula, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-305	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The amendment to the 2015 Central Budget Act, the general discussion of which took place on 9 June, is before us. The amendment is necessary because the new public procurement law will change the public procurement thresholds and these changes will have to be passed through the budget. This is why, among other things, this House has discussed the bill in conjunction with the Public Procurement Act, in the form of a joint debate. As no amendments have been tabled by its representatives and the committee has not expressed an intention to amend the bill, I ask this House to vote in favour of this technical amendment of the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-21-306	Thank you very much. As a representative requesting a normal word, István Józsa, MSZP. Here.
u2015-09-21-307	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Gyula Vantara, a Fideszes Member, seemed to be talking about amending the budget, even though at the end he added that it was due to the need to amend the text of the Budget Act because you believe that you will adopt a law on public procurement, in which the standard text of the Public Procurement Bill will be added to the text of the current Budget Act. This can be done because, in principle, the procurement thresholds for national procedures can be changed; they do not change in particular. So you just submitted in June a bill which refers to a future, later planned public procurement law, in which, in principle, the public procurement thresholds could be amended, but in particular, they will not be amended. However, the budget law will be tabled early to amend it. My fellow Members, this is an extremely cynical approach to Parliament's work and the legislative process. The car was way ahead of the horse. The horse would be the public procurement law, which will be the next day's agenda, the closing debate in this House; therefore, it is not accepted by chance. If you would take yourself seriously, even the very weak public procurement law that we will discuss in the next agenda, in the framework of a final debate, then perhaps this bill, which has now been presented to us and which has already been brought here in June, will be discussed by Parliament. So the public procurement bill, which is T/4849. It is expected to enter into force on 1 November 2015. The public procurement thresholds are defined by the current Finance Act, so for 2015 the 2014 Act C. on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will determine the solution, which will continue to be maintained in the draft of the new Public Procurement Act. In order to ensure the applicability of the new Public Procurement Act, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Public Procurement Act containing public procurement thresholds. This is because, on the one hand, the references in the Public Procurement Act must correctly align with the provisions of the new Public Procurement Act if this new Public Procurement Act is already in place and, on the other hand, that the new EU Public Procurement Directives, which have been transposed into domestic law, may, in principle, contain different thresholds. Well, that's why you brought this very serious bill No 4850 to amend Act C of 2014 on the Central Budget. [[20.20]] I am asking you very nicely to take this matter more seriously, essentially the public procurement law and the public procurement rules. For four years, Lajos Simicska won everything with the Public Machine, now a year ago he won nothing, and there was even a decision to exclude him for three years. Try to restore the rule of law, and do so first in the framework of legislation, let us say, here. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-21-308	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would have asked if anyone else wanted to speak, but by the time I asked, Mr Gúr had already indicated that he did. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What my fellow Member has to say is what you are doing. It's a reference to the cynicism you're doing. It is simply shocking that they intend to make the amendment of the budget law with reference and reliance on the intention to make a change to the public procurement thresholds, which, by the way, will be discussed after this item on the agenda, following this item on the agenda. I would also like to add that, if you do not know, then look at the script and you will see what I said earlier, that not only did you not accept the public procurement law, but, to my knowledge, not even matured in the Commission's debates. And you, without these decisions being made, are now seeking to record what we will then discuss. What if it's not cynicism? It's not the look of Parliament. [[Dr. István Józsa: What is there to change the budget in?]] It's not the look of Parliament. There are many kinds of questions that could be asked about what content, how and how the budget should be amended, but what they are doing now, once again, is cynicism. Cinism, because they want to accept something that Parliament hasn't even done in the negotiation process. At least take care of the shape. At least they'd consider laughing instead of giggling. [[L. Simon László: It's so pathetic that we can't do anything else.]] My fellow Member, Mr Simon, at least to pay attention at least to discussing everything that needs to be discussed in order to talk about it within the framework of this law. In its response, you will also be able to state what it is that needs to be amended. I'm curious to hear it. I am curious to hear it, because we do not see what they want to amend here in the Finance Act as a result of the reference to the change in thresholds under the Public Procurement Act. [[L. Simon László goes to the expert box.]] It's easier to turn your back and go outside than to answer, I know that. Because this is nothing more than a factual runaway. Then it will be done in rejoinders when the Member no longer has the means and the opportunity to give him another answer. Yeah, that's what you do, not within the framework of this law, but in general. That's about their political culture. In terms of the application of the law, therefore, this is all unacceptable in the legislative sense. Once again, I would like to point out that you are ignoring the role of Parliament, ignoring it. [[L. Simon László: Tell us about the bill.]] Once again, I would like to point out that you are ignoring the role of Parliament. L. Simon László will talk about what and how they want to change in the budget with reference to the Public Procurement Act. And not when Members can no longer speak back. It's a sort of unpredictability, unpredictability, what you're doing. A continuation of a discredited policy. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-09-21-310	Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak in the time frame available to them? Congressman István Józsa, MSZP!
u2015-09-21-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to recommend it to the attention of the present Secretary of State L. Simon László, who represents the government of Hungary here in one person, so that Parliament's contributions can be evaluated as rhetorical works. As there are parts of your poetry that, he says, is an expression of his ethical or lyrical self, Parliament's speeches belong to the rhetorical work of Members. So please take seriously what we are saying about the functioning of Parliament, so that there are substantive debates here, and in legislation, the right timing to bring the subject first and then its consequences to this House, please be kind. Thank you.
u2015-09-21-312	Dear Congresswoman, Members of Congress. Does anyone else wish to speak in the time frame available? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-313	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I need to concentrate heavily so that I can take seriously the speeches I just spoke so I don't laugh here at 8:30 p.m. It seems that my fellow Member, Józsa, and my fellow Member, Gur, are tired. [[István Apáti: Not a little.]] Not a little bit. Thank you very much for your help. It has been exhausting today, it has been difficult to follow the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, the many, many interpretation problems, I see, at least their stomachs, or perhaps their heads, their stomachs, and their heads. Ladies and gentlemen, Talking about rhetorical performance after the two speeches we just spoke, well, to say the least, that's an exaggeration. I do not think that I will be reading your speeches in Parliament instead of Cicero at night, but in any case I will take this proposal from my fellow Member, Józsa, and I will always try to keep an eye on the rhetorical interpretation of what they have said. Because it was completely incomprehensible in its objective nature, and irrelevant in terms of the bill. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, to the fact that this bill has been tabled under number 4850 and to the amendment of the Public Procurement Act No 4849. The fact that, in today's debate, this bill is preceded by the negotiation of the public procurement bill is completely indifferent. It's completely indifferent. But if it bothered you in this way that two and a half speeches could have been delivered here, then you could have quietly signalled in the House Committee, it would have been a very serious proposal from the MSZP faction to replace the debates on the two legislative proposals and to discuss the final debate on the public procurement law first and then to discuss the debate on the amendment of the budget law. My fellow Member, Mr Gúr, obviously did not read these three pages; my fellow Member, Józsa, was also very kind to have read us half of the general justification for the bill. In any case, if my fellow Member Gúr had read it, he would have seen that this was not a modification of the budget figures by some devious and devious political practice, but a transposition of the new thresholds which entered into force on 1 November by amending the Public Procurement Act, my honourable fellow Member. And there is no point in talking about what you have said here, that this cannot be negotiated until we have accepted the other, since both of these bill proposals will enter into force on 1 November 2015 in the case of their adoption and their opposition by the President of the Republic. So simply what has been presented is considered a burlesque, political burlesque, honourable Members. [[20.30]] And as the government does not touch the main figures of the budget, the government does not suggest to Parliament that we make substantive changes to the main figures of the budget law in the context of this amendment, so I do not understand what our fellow Members have objected to, what their problem is. Apparently, representatives of all the other parliamentary groups were sitting here silently, and rather they thought that they would save us the time that you were talking about here completely unnecessarily. [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, this is it. That's how they feel about it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It really was so frivolous that you couldn't be serious about it. And I would recommend to my fellow Member, Józsa, that he talk about the very weak amendment to the public procurement law on the next agenda, because he did not miss my attention, but he did not miss yours, either, because they said that we should have discussed the law on public procurement first, in the next agenda. So I propose to my fellow Member, Józsa, that he should not, but he will do so anyway, so that the bill for amending the Public Procurement Act can be criticised in the next agenda. Overall, let us conclude this completely disastrous debate by asking my fellow Members to support the bill, which will gain its meaning if Parliament will support the bill tabled by the Government and supplemented by many amendments and proposals by my fellow Members to amend the Public Procurement Act, the existing Public Procurement Act. [[The intervention of Nándor Gúr and Dr. István Józsa.]] These two are forming a unit together, and I think we're gonna have no problem with that. And I will certainly expect serious advice from my fellow Members on the restoration of the rule of law. I would suggest to my fellow Member, Józsa, that, if you have already talked about rhetorical performance, you should discuss this in a very large presentation, I will certainly listen to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-314	Thank you very much. Let's just say that I consider this discussion and debate to be moderate in good mood and quality. [[András Tállai: Less than medium.]] In any case, your decisions, I'll inform you, will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on public procurement and the summary amendment proposal. The T/4849. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask if one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Since no one has come forward to present the minority opinion, I would like to give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, who would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a maximum of 15 minutes available, but there is absolutely no obligation to exhaust this framework. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-315	Thank you very much for your house rules. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/4849 in two stages on 16 and 18 September 2015. The bill on public procurement, submitted on no. 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. On the one hand, the summarised amendment includes parts of the texts submitted by the committees negotiating the proposal, such as the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Enterprise Development, and, on the other hand, the Legislative Committee has submitted codification proposals to the bill. As was said at the committee meeting, Jobbik and LMP were constructively involved in the five-party dialogue, and it was extremely important for the government that the opposition contribute to the legislative process with substantial, valuable proposals, and although there were a lot of overlaps between the proposals, I can inform my fellow Members that much has been incorporated into the amendments. For example, with regard to conflict of interest rules, the relevant colleagues of the Prime Minister's Office consulted the experts of the European Commission in all respects, i.e. offshore regulation and transparency rules were included in the draft legislation as final proposals agreed with Brussels. In line with the new rules on directives, the bill contains clearer provisions to prevent conflicts of interest, we have taken a huge step towards transparency and traceability. At the committee meeting, the number of contracting entities to be invited was mentioned in restricted procurement. The current rule is three, the number five has also been raised, and as a compromise proposal four tenderers should be invited to the restricted procedures. The disclosure obligation and access to the file have also been raised. The secretary of state present at the meeting gave a detailed reply to this at the committee meeting. It amends the thresholds, although this is not the law, but it was still discussed at the committee meeting, but we discussed this in the previous proposal. In view of the above, the proposed amendments to the new Public Procurement Act adopted by the TAB aim at simplifying, speeding up procedures to ensure transparency in public procurement, reducing the administrative burden on businesses and promoting the successful participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the public procurement procedure. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-21-316	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[L. Simon László: No.]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, and now the representatives will take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, and first of all, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-317	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The Public Procurement Act is T/4849. There is a number of amendments before us, which in June the National Assembly is T/4850. He negotiated with Law No.3 just to refresh the memory a little bit. The Legislative Committee, as has been said, presented a large package of amendments at its meeting on 18 September. Before I introduce this, allow me to briefly remind you of the most important points in the bill. The amendments were made because of the new public procurement directive of the European Union, and one of the important changes is the publication of the concession contracts directive in addition to the directives governing classic public procurement and governing public procurement for public services. The law will also allow important social and economic objectives, such as innovation, social objectives and environmental protection, to become an integral part of public procurement policy. e-procurement also appears as an opportunity, which also has an impact on speeding up the process. It is an important change that the concept of business secrecy is tightened so that economic operators cannot hide behind it, and in the future they cannot expect to get rid of their commitments to obtain the contract by means of a subsequent amendment of the contract, since the tenderers will have to bid responsibly in the course of the procurement procedure. [[20.40]] It will also mean a change compared to the previous practice that contracting authorities should favour tenderers whose products or services represent qualitatively added value, so that the most important aspect will not be the lowest price and the law will also introduce the concept of technical equivalence, which means that the reference will be set at 75 per cent of the technical quantity requested. In the light of Mr President's warnings, I would now like to turn to a brief presentation of the summarised amendments. The proposal contains nearly a hundred points. Several points of this are a legal or text-focusing proposal, so I would not mention them separately. I would like to highlight some points that are important and represent a change from what has been done so far. Point 2 of the summarised amendment proposal complements the interpretation of the law with the definition of the professional offer, which has so far been absent from the bill, in order to facilitate the application of the law. Point 9 states, in order to facilitate the application of the law, that, in the case of service orders, the technical and economic functional unit of the procurement must be taken into account when determining the estimated value, as in the case of the rules on works. Point 13 of the amending proposal is important: Compared to the amendment tabled by the Economic Committee, it complements the rules on conflicts of interest of the bill with the heads of other bodies with national competence, including the Public Procurement Authority, the Economic Competition Authority, the National Tax and Customs Office and the Central Statistical Office. According to the amendment, the main public-law dignitaries and the heads of the bodies with the named national powers and the entities owned by their relatives cannot participate in the procurement procedures on the tender side. In addition, in order to ensure the clarity of competition and the transparency of public procurement procedures, the bill should be added to the requirement that, in the event that the economic operator concerned by the conflict of interest resolves the conflict of interest situation during the procedure, the contracting authority should publish the measures it has taken in a summary of the outcome of the tender or the participation phase. Point 15 of the proposal allows contracting entities to use the method of value analysis in the preparation of the procurement procedure and amends the rules for prior market consultations in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. Point 32 of the amending proposal can also be highlighted, creating an exclusionary reason for economic operators not using the advance on a contractual basis to be excluded from public procurement. Point 35 of the amending proposal clarifies the requirements for the adoption of technically equivalent references and the amendment clarifies that the equivalence of references should be established in relation to the subject-matter of the relevant procurement. It is also important to point 36 of the amending proposal, which makes it clear that, if the certificates submitted by the tenderer offering the most favourable tender do not support or contradict the earlier statements made in the single European procurement document, the declarations submitted by the tenderer are still considered inappropriate and the tenderer is entitled to disregard the tender and therefore to request the certificate of the tenderer giving the following tender. In this context, point 39 complements the provisions of the bill with new grounds of nullity, according to which, in the event that the economic operator declares to be a commercial secret information for which the law precludes, known in previous practice, the tenderers have made use of this option, or gives insufficient justification, and does not correct these errors to the contracting authority's request for a deficiency, the offer or application for participation shall be considered invalid. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. István Apáti: Guard! Take us away, guard.]] Point 51 of the amending proposal raises the number of tenderers to whom the contracting authority is obliged to send the invitation to tender in the public procurement procedures, as already mentioned in our fellow Member Vas Imre's presentation, to four in order to increase competition. Point 57 of the amending proposal lays down specific rules for the payment of compensation under a public contract for works and services. About this, in the practice of previous years, there have been major disturbances due to unregulatedness, and here we are talking mainly about access to money from the sub-contracting side. These rules change as follows. Under the new rules, tenderers are obliged to notify, until the date of recognition of the performance, the amount of the remuneration each tenderer or its subcontractors is entitled to and, at the invitation of the contracting authority, to issue the invoices and their own accounts. The contracting authority shall pay the invoices within 30 days of receipt by paying directly to subcontractors. It is important and may be a bit linked to this point in point 59, which states, in order to ensure the transparency of the performance of the contract, that only undertakings notified to the contracting authority by the successful tenderer at the latest by the date of the contract may participate in the performance of the contract. In addition to point 62, point 62 of the amending proposal, point 62 of the amendment, which states that if the successful tenderers perform through a project company, the performance of the project company may subsequently be used as a reference by the tenderers. Dear House, Overall, we can therefore say that the summarised amendments will help to ensure that public procurement is faster, fairer and more transparent in the future, so I ask you to support the amended legislative proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-21-318	Thank you very much. Mr István Apáti is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-09-21-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to continue where we stopped or stopped in our immediate question-and-answer match with the Prime Minister, because two or three minutes did not allow for a deep discussion of the public procurement system, because that is not only the main replacement of corruption today, but also there are other types of activities or other systems that feed corruption, but the term "procurement" in itself has unfortunately become a synonym for corruption, and it is also our greatest pain and our strongest opposition to this law, if I remember correctly, that this is at least the third run in the last five years. It began in the summer of 2010, in the autumn of 2010 with the creation of a comprehensive new law, and then during the last cycle, a comprehensive amendment of this new law was made. And now there is a new law for the pro-government majority, in which unfortunately, although some of our oral proposals have finally been accepted, but this is still very little to support this proposal, especially because it does not intend to eliminate it in any way, let alone reduce or reduce corruption, and on the other hand, the fight for freedom, the famous fight for freedom against Brussels, they give up the possibility to incorporate valuable national protectionism rules into the system. [[20.50]] And at the level of the plenary debate, at the Commission level, but especially during the five-party negotiations a few weeks ago, we have received at least a dozen responses to the substantive proposals that the idea is very good, and that would be a very good idea for professionals, but it is contrary to EU directives. These responses kept coming, whether it is the support of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We have put forward the simple proposal to take the wording out of the current norm that, where possible, these undertakings should maintain a certain value of public procurement. Make it clear that yes, it can only be reserved for these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The answer came from the Deputy State Secretary level that the possible imposition, the EU's requirement for Hungary, and, therefore, a serious infringement procedure... - this was the case, Mr. State Secretary, I recall that you weren't reporting otherwise, so to say in your defense, that was the answer. As we have asked about documentation fees, although these are not the most serious parts of the rules, let us say, for a small municipality, it was a big cut in the way that these municipalities were deprived of the possibility of collecting documentation fees. In good cases, if public procurement was related to an EU project, it was possible to plan the costs of public procurement, but there were times when it was underdesigned, of course, it was a contracting error, and there was also a lack of opportunity or a non-EU procurement. And indeed, the municipalities have been deprived of a very valuable source of income - often a single source of income. For years, in recent years, I have tried several times to ask tenderers for at least part of the costs of consultants or consultants for public procurement and other administrative costs for documentation fees. Unfortunately, this was also rejected by reference to EU principles. As I asked whether there was no problem, especially in high-value public procurement, the introduction of the so-called 75% reference rule. So, in Hungarian, the net value can only ask for technical competence references up to 75 per cent from here to the contracting authority and not 100 per cent. Now, this may not be such a big problem for a few ten million-dollar procedures, but, let's say, for a multibillion-dollar public procurement procedure, it is a concern, as it may not be possible for anyone who can be present for public procurement, say, up to 5 billion or 7.5 billion, to be able to be present at a value of 25 percent or more. In some cases, allowing contracting authorities to define suitability requirements in a limited or non-discriminatory manner is potentially life-threatening, since impotent and incompetent contracting authorities can take action. Then it can be said that these irresponsible tenderers, economic operators and various public procurement and other sanctions are being imposed, but this will no longer bring happiness to contracting authorities who may fall from serious use of resources. As with the contracting authorities, in particular, I have to refer to this again, it is particularly unfair for the local authorities, although it is only right in itself to pay, where appropriate, some advance payments, up to 30-40 per cent, to the tenderers, but they cannot apply for an advance refund guarantee in any form. After all, what happens then - unfortunately, this has been the case - that if the winning bidder leaves, disappears, disappears from Hungary, takes the money and runs, then what happens to these contracting authorities, what happens to these investments? Unfortunately, they were not seen as timely or justified in accepting them. But to say positive, because there was only a certain willingness to cooperate in you, this is mainly due to the fact that during that five-party consultation we discussed primarily with professionals and not with politicians, for example, they accepted that the municipalities listed in the separate legislation, in disadvantaged or cumulative disadvantaged areas, should be exempted from the publication fee, as remains in the text that this exemption for settlements under the thousand population remains. I am very pleased if municipalities in disadvantaged areas benefit from this advantage regardless of the number of inhabitants, since they have already been subject to a very heavy burden of paying the contract notice fee, especially if they had to carry out a large number of procedures in one year. However, our most important argument, our most important proposal, has been rejected, even if we have tabled this in a lively way, and it may involve not only the public procurement law, but also other laws or lower-ranking legislation, and this is the setting up of specific cost limits or cost planning limits. We have repeatedly said that everyone, the whole of politics, economic operators and, where appropriate, the actors of police or investigative authorities, politicians live in the magic of public procurement and argue whether it is possible to write down whether they are playing or playing the given job for a given bidder or not being papered. In fact, the Public Procurement Act can make this difficult or easier, but in one case we can only cut off the supply line: if we prevent the provisions allowing redistributives from being included in the system in the planning period of the budget. I am thinking, for example, of, and typically of, public procurement from an EU source, of example, of a construction project, of the nature of the investment, and of the net cost limits expressed in kilometres, in kilometres, in square meters, in units of measurement, which would obviously require the Chamber of architects and other professional organisations. For if something, say, a new construction is feasible in terms of energy saving, low operating costs - I now give you an example of an amount - at a cost of 250 thousand forints per square meter, then they cannot plan 560,000 for 810 thousand, because this huge difference makes it possible to get serious money into the pockets of parties, private pockets, mayors and other political leaders. I do not believe in the majority of cases that Hungarian politics, especially at the state level, is going on a rugged path of self-limiting, so the safest thing is that if we don't leave the honey in front of the bear, we don't leave the chickens free in the poultryyard, but we keep them safe. And with this, believe me, with this simple step in setting up these cost limits, which could otherwise start with the works, and then extend to closing purchases and service orders, we would do much more than anyone has done to us in the last 25 years. And since you have failed to accept them or have constantly rejected our better proposals with reference to European Union directives, therefore, although there are forward-looking parts of the proposal, there are some things that have been very difficult to pass on from Jobbik's side, but we cannot support it, because nothing is being done to curb corruption and reduce corruption. In some cases, it will be easier, in some cases it will be more difficult to document whether the company receives the procedure or wins the job, which is in the best interest of the local mayor or other contracting authority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-320	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to a representative seeking a normal word, on behalf of the Government, Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, shall have the opportunity to speak. Here.
u2015-09-21-321	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In numerous debates, my fellow Member complains that the government is speaking only in the closing words. I'm sorry that Congressman Abbot talked about Jobbik's time, so... [[István Apáti: Give me from the Fidesz!]] Is it possible for me to go through with it? Really... [[Dóra Dúró: Give me KDNP!]] We were just talking about football, Congressman, and let's put this football hooligan vibe aside and try...
u2015-09-21-322	Let's not stall, shall we? ! [[L. Simon László: I'm stalling my own time.]] All right, talk to me, Mr. Secretary. [[L. Simon László: Mr. President, I'm stalling on my own time.]] Here.
u2015-09-21-323	Please allow me to waste my time. I would therefore like to say to my fellow Members that, in fact, what Mr Apáti has said here, this has also been said at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, where I think we have responded substantially to everything. But, if you have repeated your criticism here, may I say, Congressman, that there are some things that need to be responded to so that you do not remain unanswered. When we are talking about EU directives and in a legislative process the government and the government's experts involved in the five-party consultation clearly indicate that the EU directives are binding on us, it means nothing but that we regard the legislation for ourselves and therefore the EU legislation as binding. We, all of us, and you, too, Mr Abbot, have sworn to obey and enforce the laws, you, who are so sensitively speaking in Parliament about the nature of corruption, and you are whipping us for not doing everything we have to do to combat corruption, which, by the way, I must strongly reject, honourable Member, you, you should not be saying why we did not accept your proposals on the basis of EU directives. [[21.00]] The EU directives do not look like a cookbook to decide whether to put five pinches of salt or four pinches of salt into the soup, but they are a clear obligation for Hungarian legislation. Nevertheless, you admitted that there was a five-party negotiation. Both you and the LMP participated in this five-party meeting. I will thank you for this, and I will thank you for the fact that both LMP and Jobbik have indeed been constructive in this legislative process. It is a shame that our socialist fellow Members did not participate in this five-party consultation and did not actually shape this legislative process. And indeed, Congressman, the Government has taken into account your substantive proposals, we have incorporated their substantive proposals into the bill, we have supported substantive proposals and I said at the Legislative Committee meeting that we consider them to be supported by the Government and that we will vote here in Parliament. For example, the number of tenderers. It is true that you have proposed five against the three currently in force, but we have supported the compromise solution to make it four. I could give you a number of examples of life where it would otherwise be difficult, honourable Member. In the case of SMEs, however, we do take into account what my better fellow Members have expressed as a goal or expectation. I also told you at the committee meeting, honourable Member, that, on the other hand, in implementing the law, all those who have to issue public procurement must take into account, of course within the legal framework, the preference of local entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and local professionals. By the way, the law gives you a way to do that. We also consider this kind of patriotism, positive discrimination in a good sense, positive discrimination in a good sense and within a legal framework to be important. But, I'll tell you again, it's not about law enforcement, it's not about government, it's about law enforcement. Dear fellow Member, We always act as if the Public Procurement Act only applies to the top layer of politics and should not be in a small-town school in the event of renovation, or should not, say, in a small-town medical office in the case of the renovation of a water block, and I could give a thousand more examples from the courts to the police to museums, where public procurement is to be issued; indeed, in these areas, the same considerations that my fellow Member has formulated in connection with both SMEs and cleanliness and transparency should be taken into account. With regard to documentation fees - you have just admitted here, honourable Member - we have also accepted your proposal. Indeed, in the case of small settlements of less than a thousand people, you do not have to pay. And I have responded to the subcontractors before, and I am reacting now: we have not been able to deal with this quite as the Member said, and the Jobbik faction formulated it at the five-party conciliation, but, of course, I said that we have to resolve it during the procedure, and we can also resolve it, so that companies which systematically do not pay their subcontractors can run on public procurement. [[Intercoms from LMP and Jobbik.]] These companies should be excluded from public procurement. Let me conclude by saying, honourable Member, that I consider it a very, very bad direction if we put an equal sign between the concept of public procurement and the concept of corruption. [[Dóra Dúró: We didn't do it, that's for sure!]] I think that's a very, very bad direction. The very point of public procurement, honourable Member, is that, as a result of a transparent selection process, corruption is excluded from the task of entrusting worthy entrepreneurs. And I'll tell you again, let's not live in the charm of prices. I have also said in the Commission's debate that there is quality competition, for example, if this law is adopted, i.e. it is not the cheapest competition, but the best quality at a fixed price. In my area, in monument renovations, you can't expect to accept the cheapest offer. We can say the bulk of special cases when we do not need the cheapest offer - think about renovating such a building - but we need to accept the highest quality, honourable Members. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-21-324	Thank you very much. We're going back to the line of normal people. Mr István Józsa is next, MSZP. Here.
u2015-09-21-325	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was indeed an unusual turn of events, for two reasons. On the one hand, Mr State Secretary, in his last sentence closing the previous agenda, accepted our argument and said that the amendment of the budget law would make sense, as we have said, if this law on public procurement were to be adopted. But we do not want to suggest this to you, because the story of this is quite cuckoo. I would like to start with a statement in principle that public procurement in a well-functioning economy is of great importance, which can contribute to competition, to higher standards, and to the growth of public goods. The law sets out how to apply for work or service applicants by the State, but the domestic legal environment for public procurement has basically already complied with EU directives, but there have been serious problems with the application of law in recent years. The European Union has also given its voice. In the Partnership Agreement with the European Commission, for this seven-year cycle, it is stated that Hungary does not meet the requirements for the functioning of public procurement defined as a prerequisite for the use of EU funds, and measures should therefore be taken to ensure that the public procurement system functions properly. This came up as a criterion. One of the conditions for the adoption of the new operational programmes in Brussels was the renewal of the public procurement rules, which is why the proposal was made in June this year. After that, as Congressman Gyula Vantara said, on 18 September an extremely bulky package of amendments of nearly 100 points on more than 20 pages was submitted for their own presentation, for their own bill, and they all said that it would improve transparency and ensure a faster and fairer procurement process. In contrast, the process has actually been extremely relaxed, with numerous rubber rules and loopholes being included in this twenty-page amendment. Contrary to what you claim, this version, which has not yet been compiled, does not serve to eradicate or reduce corruption, on the contrary, opens up the possibility of further proliferation, and all along with seemingly well-sounding professional arguments and professional reasons. For example, this is a 75% reference. Of course, there may be new types of work that domestic entrepreneurs have not done before, so they add some flexibility. At the same time, for example, the possibility of exclusion can be so nicely arranged, it does not matter whether three, four or five candidates are invited if, for subjective reasons, it is essentially excluded from the present legislative mandate who they want. We consider it very important that the preference of SMEs, which is indeed a national economic objective to be pursued, is not actually guaranteed by the law in this regard. It's on purpose, but there's no warranty. Similarly, we consider it important to sanction the use of the advance, as there have been scandalous cases in the past, namely, the scandal of the first Hungarian social cooperative, where nearly 3,000 people were regularly stolen. They didn't have their share, the advance was practically used for what they were supposed to use the part for, and then the company simply disappeared with the money of those involved. So we consider a much more thoughtful proposal that is indeed appropriate to the objectives set. This was already apparent in the June presentation, and that was the reason why, seeing these amendments, the MSZP did not participate in the five-party consultation, because there is no chance that this proposal could be improved. [[21.10]] It's a process of absolution that would be a miracle if a well-functioning system could develop. In this case, we do not see this as assured. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-21-326	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP faction, is coming. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If Congressman Apáti has no opportunity to answer, then I will attempt to put things in order here from the meeting of the Legislative Committee. The fact is that you, both at the TAB meeting and at the five-party meeting, have indeed come to the conclusion that the EU directives provide a framework for the government's room for manoeuvre. Now, let's be clear. The Public Procurement Act - indeed, you are right about that, if that is what you are referring to - is only one of the functions of trying to prevent thieves from the area of public funds. But the Public Procurement Act has a very important economic policy function: in a country where the economy is tragically divided - there is a dual economy in Hungary today - the Public Procurement Act would have a tremendously important function in trying to breathe life into the local economy with the help of government orders, trying to put Hungarian SMEs in a position against court suppliers and multinationals. Now, it is quite funny to hear that you do not want infringement procedures and do not want conflict with the European Union, while Parliament has just closed the debate where you want to send messages directly to the leaders of the European Union by parliamentary decision. Mr Secretary of State, if there is any reason to be in conflict with the European Union, it is precisely a type of protectionist economic policy; if, for some reason, we have to engage in a collision with the European Union, it is precisely the support of the domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector, the local economy. Because it is necessary to see if something puts the European Union in a very hopeless position and stretches the framework of the European Union, that is precisely the dogmatic free trade logic that will keep Eastern European countries in perpetual poverty. When, say, in the case of an asphalt company, the European Union does not allow, there is an obligation procedure and can only order raw materials within a defined distance... it is out in Brussels. What did you... [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] Yes, it is true that he has made a conflict - the socialists have done this very right, and it is very right that there is conflict in this, Mr State Secretary, but the fact is that Hungary should take on a multitude of these conflicts. A European Union that does not allow sustainability aspects to be applied at the end, which does not allow the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe to strengthen their own capacity to create internal capital, such a European Union is doomed to death. That is the conclusion that should finally be drawn, and that should be where you should be brave, not making idiotic messages in front of this House. Dear Secretary of State, One of the proposals we have put forward is our proposal on the basis of the Elios case, so that it is no longer possible for a public tender to be awarded to a consultant when drawing up the tender documentation. We also suggested that we try to define the concentrations of the heads of the board, or the concentrations of the contracting and tenderer side, going back three years. It's obviously very funny for Gyula Vantara, because she can also be a profiteer, I think, in this loophole situation, but I think for taxpayers this situation is far from funny. In the Elios case, too, it was found that suddenly before the deadline for the application, the shares changed ownership. The Prime Minister has promised to support this LMP amendment; it has not. You said at the committee meeting that if the LMP proposal was accepted by the Parliament, the public procurement market would be paralyzed. In my translation, it means that you think that if the LMP proposal was accepted by the Parliament, Fidesz relatives and friends couldn't submit any more applications, and your reading would paralyze the public procurement market. That would be the clear word if they confessed. In addition, Mr Secretary of State, we have also tabled an amendment to the circulars to clear out those who do not pay out subcontractors and have responsibility for the contracting authority's announcement as winners, to have responsibility for the issuing body if the winner of the tender leaves the workers and small entrepreneurs unpaid. You have not accepted these proposals, you have not sided with the people. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-328	Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-09-21-329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Gyula Vantara, addressed the issue of the purity of competition, among other things, and the issue of formal compliance. Here I would just like to point out to your attention and to the attention of all of us, what competition and transparency look like in terms of the purity of competition, in terms of public procurement. My fellow Member, Mr Simon, or Minister of State, must have read or at least know, I believe, the European Union's country report on Hungary. If you don't, I'll help you, if you do, I'll only mention it in headlines. Here, the issue of close contractual relations is particularly affected by the thought-making of ideas, and this is nothing more than the relationship between business and political circles. I also agree with the idea that what you said would be good if it were not the story; if public procurement were to promote the kind of selection that would base the most practical and useful process combined with the highest yield. Unfortunately, all kinds of statements or statements do not support this, but that public procurement in Hungary certainly involves serious risk factors, corruption risks, and this is not right, this is not right. The events of the last five years are about strengthening this process; I am not making this up; there are a lot of research results to support this. As regards formal conformity, when I hear from my fellow Member Gyula Vantara that it is worth going in the direction of having at least four suppliers selected, I would like to tell you that we are now, in this period, half of which there is one selected for public procurement. I don't want to go any further and go deeper on this issue, I just want you to look at what was born with regard to the economic operational programme. They see that there are serious negligences about all kinds of research, overpriced and more expensive displays than market prices; this should be the starting point and this should be changed. It's good, and it's okay to try to get the chain debt zeroed. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-21-330	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy in the time frame available to the faction. [[Attila Mesterházy manages his microphone.]] Please restore time to 57 seconds.
u2015-09-21-331	Yeah, I'm sorry, it's just the mic's tangled up here. I just had a brief comment on the debate that my fellow Members may have left out of the so far in the context of public procurement. Speaking of the European Union, in the context of this a little, the fact that the Hungarian government is constantly deciding who can be the winner in restricted tenders also has a significant impact on this issue; this is above the EU average in Hungary. For this very reason, this could indeed be a hotbed for what my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has been talking about, namely corruption. This is why it is important that these restricted tenders should be much more so, either on the basis of a clear political decision, on the basis of strategic considerations, or on the basis of open procurement procedures, so as to avoid the kind of debate about the extent to which these issues are affected by corruption. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2015-09-21-332	I'll ask you if you still wish to speak out of the factions in the time frame available. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to speak as a rapporteur. [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] It says yes. The floor is for Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here. [[21.20]]
u2015-09-21-333	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to mention some of the little things that have been said and then my final speech. I would like to say to my fellow Member, I would like to say that he mentioned the change in the reference rate that 75% can be taken into account and prescribed. Mr President, this is precisely to strengthen the SME sector. This is a very good effort, because it is about the fact that if a local entrepreneur, say, had a reference in kindergarten renovation earlier in a small settlement, he could not start a school renovation or a medical restoration tender. So I think that this is a major facilitation, which will certainly serve to ensure that, by the way, in smaller settlements, complex entrepreneurs with no high references are able to start. I am trying to follow the logic of my fellow Member Schiffer, who is unfortunately not here. [[Dr. András Schiffer enters the Chamber. István Apáti: His movement too!]] My fellow Member Schiffer, I understand you have accused the government of using a double standard, saying that we have been sensitive to EU directives here and that we are not sensitive to EU directives in other areas. Then I could throw the same ball back to the Member, because today, in his speech before the agenda, he has asked for compliance with the rule of law in all respects in the government, who, in my view, is in favour of respecting international treaties and the rule of law, while encouraging us, in the spirit of some kind of protectionist economic policy, to go against EU directives and violate the rule of law. I don't think these two are gonna work, at least not at the same time. But I may have misinterpreted what the congressman said. If that's the case, I'll follow it. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me highlight a few things in this way at the end of the debate. The new public procurement law submitted by the Government aims to put the implementation of national public procurement on a new basis by reviewing the rules on public procurement, the legal environment and the functioning of the institutional system and updating the relevant rules. [[Dr. András Schiffer is leaving the meeting room.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate, it has been said that this is a patchwork, but it is not true, in fact, by adopting this bill, we are putting legislation and the legislative environment on a new footing. Don't forget, we are not just going through a thorough five-party consultation, but as a result of the ongoing consultation of the relevant bodies of the European Union, there is a draft law before my fellow Members, which meets their expectations and the EU directives. By doing so, we want to contribute to the conduct of socially and economically beneficial public procurement, focusing on the principle of qualitative selection, and to the proper use of EU funds. I would also like to say to my fellow Member Schiffer that we have held it particularly important in this area to take into account and comply with the European Union directives, because we do not want to put our access to the Structural Funds, which provide significant resources to Hungary, in any event because of errors in public procurement rules or possibly by irregular procurement procedures. So you can't even joke about this in this area by accident, but you have to go down a road consistently. We don't have to expose ourselves to OLAF investigations, we don't have to expose ourselves to princes, but we do have to carry out public procurement according to EU expectations. With the adoption of the new law, enforcement of requirements in public procurement procedures such as transparency of procedures, increased competition, purity of competition, priority of the application of quality-based selection criteria, simplification, acceleration of procedures, reduction of administrative burden, transition to electronic communications, and the promotion of the successful role of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement can be better achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the bill was submitted to Parliament on 19 May, the general debate was closed on 9 June, 41 amendments were submitted to the bill. The detailed debate was concluded on 30 June, during which the bill was also discussed by the Economic Committee, the Committee on Enterprise Development and the Committee on Budgets, and then the Legislative Committee concluded the procedure on 18 September. During the summer period between the conclusion of the detailed debate and the procedure of the Legislative Committee, the Prime Minister's Office waited for the proposals of our fellow Members, but no such proposal was received by the rapporteur. This debate was also held at the TAB meeting, see our fellow Member, Mr Fodor, who made his objections as usual, but did not submit one amendment to the bill. Or see our socialist fellow Members, who did not attend the five-party consultation on 31 August, as opposed to the other opposition or pro-government factions. During this five-party discussion, we discussed the party's amendments, which were incorporated in a significant part in the bill. The proposals that we have failed to adopt would, in our view, have led to legislation contrary to the EU directive. We also discussed this in detail today in the debate with Mr Apáti. Among the proposals, we must highlight the proposal to tighten the rules on conflicts of interest, which our fellow Member Schiffer has repeatedly formulated. The solution developed by the author to tighten the rules on conflicts of interest essentially limits the involvement of companies owned by the main public dignitaries or their relatives, their relatives and non-direct relatives in public procurement procedures. Thus, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the President or Vice-President of the Parliament, the Minister, the President of the Curia, the Attorney General, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the SAO, the President of the Public Procurement Authority, the President of the GVH, the President of the National Tax and Customs Office, and the exclusion of the participation of organisations owned or related to the President of the Central Statistical Office in public procurement procedures. In the bill, we also adopted some other major amendments, with the help of the legislative committee's summarised amendment proposal. I will also highlight some of these. Payment and performance rules have been amended for the purchase of works and services. Contracting entities will now pay directly the main contractor and subcontractors, thereby increasing the security and speed of payments. The subcontractors will be more secure with their money. Furthermore, it is a new rule that the aggregate share of the subcontractors' performance does not exceed the share of the successful tenderers' own performance, resulting in a shortening of the subcontractors' chain. As a combined effect of the two provisions, it is possible to prevent the emergence of chain debts, honourable Members. In view of the failure to publish contracting information in the procurement database, the President of the public procurement authority may initiate an appeal procedure which, in addition to other provisions of the law, facilitates better transparency and publicity of public procurement. The so-called low value public procurements from domestic sources, i.e. purchases of goods and services below HUF 18 million - we went from 25 to 15 million - and from 150 million to 100 million in the case of works below HUF 100 million - instead of the three initially proposed bidders, as I said in the debate, taking into account Jobbik's proposal, the contracting authority will be obliged to call four bidders for tenders, which will lead to a further increase in competition and a more efficient use of public funds in the future. Among the rules governing participation in public procurement, we have also modified the grounds for exclusion for offshore companies, which we had to press the European Commission. Let us not forget that we wanted something more stringent than what was included in the bill, because the European Commission objected to this. As a result of the consultations with the Commission, a common agreement was reached, and accordingly companies with an opaque ownership structure could not participate in public procurement in Hungary. Because of the new Kbt. It can be considered as a framework law, so the framework provided by the law is completed by implementing regulations with additional detailed rules. These detailed rules include rules of a technical nature on which there has already been a need and which have a significant impact on the actors in domestic public procurement. Such a rule is, in particular, the reduction of redress fees and the abolition of contract control fees in the case of complexly disadvantaged small regions and settlements under a thousand persons, as my fellow Member Apáti has said today. Ladies and gentlemen, With the draft of the new law, the Government presented a draft law which was in all respects modern, in line with the newly adopted EU public procurement directives, based on the experience of previous years' public procurement practice, widely agreed and adopted by the relevant market participants, which was also recognised in the debates before the Honourable Parliament and its committees. [[21.30]] The adoption of the new law is not only a cornerstone of our EU obligation, but also of the reform of the domestic public procurement system, so that public procurement procedures can be carried out more quickly, effectively, with greater publicity and competition than before. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-21-334	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the resolution of issues relating to the conversion of claims from certain consumer loan contracts to forints follows. The submission was made in T/6241. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the statement of the Legislative Committee, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 20-20 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 8 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members, and 10 minutes for the national rejoinder. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 15-minute time frame. Here.
u2015-09-21-335	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Foreign exchange loans pose a significant risk to both the economy, the population and the financial sector. As stated in the European Systemic Risk Board's recommendation on foreign exchange lending, there is a high risk of foreign exchange lending with financial stability in countries with significant natural collateral, i.e. stocks of foreign exchange loans granted to borrowers with no currency in question, in particular households, after their income is generally received in local currency. This was particularly valid for Hungary until recently. The law governing the forinting adopted in November 2014 provided for the forinting of both residential and free-use mortgage loans. The bank accounts also affected non-loans remaining in the foreign currency, resulting in a decrease in the amount and repayments of the credit debt shown in the foreign currency. However, the demonstrable effect was smaller than non-loans, on the one hand the repayment was less reduced due to higher interest rates and shorter maturity, and on the other hand about half of the loans concerned were initially linked to a reference rate. However, due to the decision of the Swiss central bank in January 2015, the exchange rate of the Swiss franc has increased significantly, which has effectively eliminated the positive impact of the settlement on the side of the repayment charges. By the end of 2014, the non-payment of motor vehicle loans increased to 26 percent. There are about 30 thousand foreign exchange car-credited debtors who also have a mortgage, i.e. the rising repayment obligation on motor vehicle loans can also increase the number of those who cannot pay their mortgage loans. Therefore, the management of these loans became inevitable, the framework of which was agreed by the Government and the Hungarian Banking Association on 19 August 2015, following a lengthy consultation with the EBRD. The bill before us puts this agreement into practice, the main elements of which are the following. As a main rule, the scope of the bill covers all foreign currency loans with consumers and foreign currency-based financial leasing that were not involved in the forinting of foreign currency-based mortgages. Lombard loans with currency securities or currency deposits are an exception to the main rule, where there is actually no HUF exchange risk to be protected from the customer's side, as the client offsets its own risk. Foreign currency credit agreements related to credit cards or payment accounts are not part of the current HUFing regime, due to its nature. The government intends to deal with this problem permanently. In this way, we trust the sense of our customers, and we hope that the forinting will be accepted, that our measure to help family budgets will be viewed positively, and very few will remain only in foreign exchange loans, let us say, whose salary is in Swiss francs or in euros. Dear Parliament, I have been talking about the remaining contracts, but we also need to talk about the non-compliance contracts, as many of them have reached a significant level today. Financial institutions would also be obliged to offer forint conversions in respect of claims arising from loan contracts that have been cancelled due to non-performance and are still recognised in foreign currency. However, given that these claims are no longer the result of live contracts, the issue also requires specific regulation. At the same time, the bill also provides customers with a discount, since in the event of a related modification of the loan agreements, the financial institutions would release the part of their outstanding claims by which the exchange rate of 19 August 2015 was higher than the exchange rate used for the forinting of mortgage loans. At the same time, the burden resulting from the difference would be distributed between the State and the banks in half and half. This means, therefore, that in the case of the Swiss franc contract, the claim against the client will be HUF 287 HUF at the rate of 22 pennies, and then, as a result of a credit, the customer feels that each Swiss franc's debt is only recorded at HUF 256 at the rate of 47 pennies after 1 December. Dear Parliament, In the case of outstanding contracts, financial institutions would be obliged to prepare the revised text of the loan contracts related to the conversion to HUF by 15 December 2015 at the latest and to send the text of the amending provisions to the main debtors, i.e. customers will receive their letters by 15 December 2015. The method of calculating interest rates will necessarily vary if the underlying reference rate is foreign exchange-based. However, the bill states that if the reference rate for the foreign currency reference rate used is higher, the difference shall be applied by the financial institution against the interest rate premium. This means that the customer cannot experience an increase in interest rates, since the modification cannot be more detrimental to the consumer concerned in terms of the rate of the transaction interest rate, so that the initial transaction interest rate following the amendment may not be higher than the interest rate before the date of the amendment. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the bill, financial institutions are obliged to make tenders for the amendment of the contract as an equivalent loan agreement. The reason for this is that the commitments related to the loan agreements concerned can be calculated from the customer side, especially for car loans, since there have been arrangements where the charges arising from the exchange rate change are actually met only at the end of the maturity period, which necessarily raises the continuing extension of the maturity. Claims arising from already terminated loan contracts denominated in foreign currency require specific treatment, since for terminated contracts the modification of the contract cannot be interpreted, and financial institutions may offer no more than one new instalment. The bill also states the conversion to the HUF claim for these claims, that if the customer does not object to the conversion, the waiver of part of the claims may also prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, It should also be noted that, until 1 December, customers will bear the burden of movement of the exchange rate for a period of two months. When we agreed on the mass forinting of motor vehicles and personal loans to customers under very favourable conditions, we also saw that two months will pass between the publication of the legislation and the start date of its application. During this period, financial institutions develop, transfer, calculate and post, and customers continue to suffer the situation of exchange rate movements. [[21.40]] As family budgets can no longer, in our opinion, be subject to hectic movements in this place, customers pay their repayments at the current exchange rate in October-November, but subsequently account for the overpayment to the financial institution. This is 2-3 forints in the case of currency impairment, only a few hundred forints in instalments are different for the client, but in my opinion, by the decision of the government, the proposal does not want this volatility to be seen as a burden for families either. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the purpose of the submitted bill is to finalise foreign exchange-based loans, to exempt households from exchange rate risk, and to confront family budgets with more predictable burdens. We are removing significant burdens from the shoulders of families, and I believe that the solution to the problem will end permanently and with the greatest possible positive attitude for all, within a reassuring framework. We have come a long way, but the problem will be permanently forgotten by 2016 and families with lower or higher credit levels will also face a positive turnaround. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-21-336	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute framework. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2015-09-21-337	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that today the Legislative Committee has negotiated T/6241 by way of a derogation from house rules. The draft bill on the settlement of issues relating to the conversion of claims arising from certain consumer loan contracts to forints, submitted by the Committee with 24 votes in favour, no votes in favour and 10 abstentions, and a summary report. The deviation from the house rules also indicates that, following the forinting of foreign exchange-based mortgage loans, the large number of those affected are increasingly affected by car credit defaults, which were also driven by the sudden strengthening of Swiss francs in January 2015. The exchange rate fluctuations affected some 200,000 families, so there is a need to resolve the situation as soon as possible. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, a separate amendment by Péter Cseresnyés and, on the other hand, a proposal by the Legislative Committee, which mainly contains technical amendments. After resolving the problems of mortgage lenders, I think the time has come for the government and Parliament to settle the problem of non-mortgage or other credible, mainly car-crediters, so please support the adoption of the bill.
u2015-09-21-338	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 20-20 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. First, the speeches of the Members who have applied in writing, in which Mr Tamás László is the first to speak, Fidesz. Here.
u2015-09-21-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Another and we hope that the final phase of the issuance of foreign exchange-based loans will be the T/6241 on the settlement of issues related to the conversion of claims arising from certain consumer loan contracts into forints. Law No. 1. The purpose of the bill, submitted on 18 September, is to ensure that after the forinting of foreign currency-based mortgage loans, the government also settles the situation of car-credited customers. As we have seen on several occasions, the Swiss franc's exchange rate can change very hectically, so it was in 2008, at the end of 2011 and most recently in January 2015, when a rather sudden and unexpected increase occurred. The exchange rate fluctuations affect about 200,000 families, and the size of the loan is up to HUF 305 billion. This means that, on the one hand, this is also a risk to the financial system, as the share of non-performing loans reached 26 per cent in 2014 and there are about 30 thousand motor vehicle foreign exchange-credit debtors with mortgages. Therefore, the rising repayment obligation for motor vehicle loans can also increase the number of people who cannot pay their mortgage. The management of these loans has therefore become inevitable. The proposal before us allows car-crediters to HUF their debt at practically the same rate as mortgage lenders. The forinting takes place on the basis of the agreement already mentioned on 19 August, at the market rate prevailing at that time. The loan amounts will be fixed by the banks at HUF 287.2 at the Swiss franc and HUF 309,2 at the euro rate, on 1 December 2015. The burden on banks and the State will take over from customers in half of the difference between the price used in mortgage loans in November and today's exchange rate. In the case of a Swiss franc loan, this represents a debt relief of nearly HUF 31 per franc for debtors. After the forinting, the difference between the credit to customers, the exchange rate in mortgage loans and the exchange rate on 19 August totals HUF 31 billion. In the event of the adoption of the bill, financial institutions will be obliged to prepare the HUF offer by 15 December, and will send this offer to customers who have 30 days to notify the lender if they do not wish to make use of the HUF. According to the government's calculations, all the relevant foreign exchange lenders will take advantage of the option, since there is more than 10 percent facilitation and the security of the authentic ones will increase through the forinting. That is why I propose the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-21-340	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Mr. Jobbik. Here.
u2015-09-21-341	Mr President, Dear House, A lot of people were looking forward to settling the so-called currency-credit situation among car-crediters. According to urban legends, they have been excluded from the so far settlement experiments for various reasons. I would now spare the honourable audience and the leaders of the record to explain these urban legends in detail, but for those who are familiar with economic life, you know very well that there are very nasty suspicions as to why they have not intervened in this area. It was said that about 70 percent of car credit contracts may contain, possibly contain a mistake or type error, which would have led to the fact that if you had intervened in this area earlier, those dealing with it and those involved would have been subject to very bad criminal proceedings. For example, according to the professional estimates of Andrea Damm and István Varga, based on the survey of hundreds of cases, it can be said that more than 60% of these types of contracts did not show the amount of debt in a fair manner, including the exchange rate corresponding to that day. So there were so many fundamental errors in these papers that all the involved and all the participants would have been insane, except for the debtors. Yet, we now have a plan for a package that places the greatest burden on debtors, the greatest burden on victims. What's happening? The same as in the case of real estate creditors, with a few aggravating factors, but we also saw that there is an exchange rate at the time of admission, there is a market or near, and instead of switching to an exchange rate at the time of admission, we would forint that debt and pay the real debt to the debtor, and he would get back the money already paid in the plus, because in most cases this is the case, instead, by making an unjustified huge mass at the market rate, the money between the two would be credited to the banks, which is the money of the Hungarian people. Unfortunately, there is therefore a solution that, if someone took a loan at 200 HUF, they would still count it at 270-280 HUF. The exchange rate difference is clearly absorbed by those who cannot do anything about it, who are suffering subjects of the whole process. [[21.50]] So even the three-way risk sharing you've set up doesn't work here, so it's 33-33-33 percent of the state, banks and victims. This was an unacceptable division, but even less unfair than what is ahead of us. However, we can also see that this government has made an agreement - we can also call it a pact - with the EBRD, which you have already recognised several times, then partly called an urban legend, and then tried to disprove some of its points, but still failed to refute the point that the current government of Hungary has undertaken not to impose additional burdens on banks in any sort of foreign exchange settlement. This package is exactly the same, since it does not impose a burden on the banks concerned, but their unjustified profits - for the time being only their income - unduly credit them. So it is obvious that all credit-damaged people will be rightfully outraged after they are able to beat through this package. Let's look at some details. There have been very good analyses of him, so in addition to the fact that many of the injured people are obviously coming to our host hours, there are plenty of them, and besides the foreign exchange loan wheel table that Jobbik has set up, we can get a lot of experience and exchange with them, which is why it has not been so difficult for us now, as there are also a lot of professional press about the type errors that are in your solution package. I'd like to stop here for a parentheses. We didn't call the foreign exchange loan round table to say that the right-handers always say about themselves that we are blades, while you are not; the fact is that we are only one participant at this table among over 20 civil society organisations. There are civil organizations there that protect victims by type, so there is a car-credited NGO, home-credited, free-use loans. We are honoured that Jobbik can be there both as a manifesting force of opinion, but obviously also as a force capable of articulating their legitimate expectations and bringing them into Parliament. The problem is that at the invitation of Gábor Vona, this organization has been invited here every time, not only the leading set of political parties, but indeed the Government of Hungary, the Banking Federation, the Ministry of National Economy, and for these occasions you have not been able to attend, and I find it hard to believe that you have not had at least one opportunity in two years. The only person who came on one occasion was the financial commissioner whose post has since been terminated and sprinkled with salt. So you can see that we may need to consult with those involved more, and perhaps by incorporating their experience in the courtroom and in the field, they would not make such mistakes as they do in front of us. It can be read that those concerned can voluntarily opt for the forinting of their car loans or so-called loans, but in the context of volunteering, the only thing that applies is that the creditor financial institution is required to make an offer at the almost market rate, and that it can only get away with it, in a quotation mark, if it can be justified in writing that it is not appropriate for this contract amendment plan. What if, let's say, we are talking about fellow debtors, because in such cases, the standard is that a joint declaration by fellow debtors is necessary in order to make even the rejection of this amendment. In many cases, however, debt partners are either unavailable together or no longer on speaking terms, and economic life brings many of these situations. The government did not ensure that it would make it available to any participant in this case, that the solution that you advertise as a volunteer would really be voluntary, although it is a compulsion, an automaticism, which can be excluded by a very complicated administrative procedure. It can also be seen that the debtor can choose - there is now such an option - to terminate his contract, which he can do within 60 days free of charge and commission, so the advertising of this sounds very good. The fact is, however, in the absence of a normal notice period, the amount of the debt will then be due in a single amount and all the related charges will be borne by the injured party, because it will be carried out at the market rate as a whole, not at the price of the day of admission, not at the price of the contract, but at a rate which you have made up. So you go into a contract, you don't take what's inside of it, you come up with a much less favourable exchange rate for the client, and you owe your entire debt if you want to get out of this prison. So let's not call this so well-meaning help because it's not. Obviously, this is very good for the banks, because they can avoid the mass of so-called withdrawal declarations that have become regular so-called withdrawal declarations, which allow customers to declare that this procedure is not acceptable to them. They wanted to rule this out on a systemic basis, probably by means of their background lobby, the banks forced you to take this opportunity away from them in the first place. It is also necessary to see that you would apply an amazing double standard if this proposal were to remain so. And this double standard is that anyone who could pay very hard to pay fairly comes with a HUF at such a market rate, with a minimum discount, so let's not hide it, because the gap between the market rate applied at that time and the current market rate for house-crediters would seem to be released by the banks to the victims, so this is an apple slice of a small discount if you take the whole fruit into account. The fact is that this applies only to those who have been able to repay under unrealistic, unfair conditions. However, those who have been delayed even with minimal delay could not have taken advantage of this very weak discount, even though they were equally unfair and should have been repaid under unfair terms. It may not be his fault that he couldn't meet his payment obligation in the midst of this huge imbalance in all cases, and he might be the one who would need the amount of the discount he doesn't get, because those who are better off, luckier - by the way, with the hat off to those who could pay for these schemes - but we are again concerned that those in real trouble, those who have often fallen out of error, will not get this minimum discount from you. Once again, it is probably because the EBRD has signed an agreement which is an integral part of not imposing additional burdens on banks in any attempt to settle. However, it can also be seen that very cuckoo types of contracts occur here in car-crediters and at all in these types of contracts. They are led out of the system with one stroke, which is not certain it would be a problem in itself, but they do so in such a way that, let us say, contracts with often fixed monthly instalments or contracts with residual value are simply converted into uniform payments, so in the case of the new instalment, late payments, interest rates, late payments, other fees and other charges are included in the new instalment by very harsh intervention at the rate of 287 forints. It follows from this system that if there is more than a decade left on the contract, the repayment may be 15-25 percent higher than the average of the previous three months than in the previous period. So, as a result of your entire settlement process, the daily payments to people can grow to a serious extent, even to an inexhaustible extent. Therefore, this whole package, not only doesn't tidy up this market, but it's not even fair, and it doesn't even extend its minimal, apparent facilitations to a full circle, it's picking up amongst the victims again, just like in the end, right? The luckier, better-moded, among them a lot of decent people, but let us be honest that many economic interests could also be repaid at a reduced rate, and for the simple man there remained a fucking market rate and an unjustified burden he did not deserve. Here we listened to in the introduction that the problem could be permanently forgotten, in a slightly cactiphant way, but we all understand that the aim of the legislator is to take the so-called foreign exchange issue out of Hungarian public life. But don't forget that this isn't going to happen without a trace, we're talking about hundreds of broken families, broken lives, lost existences. It is not only that the Hungarian national economy has borne this weight on its own back for decades, because they have been assisted by taxpayers, but it is also unacceptable from a humane approach that, because of the agreement with the EBRD, international organisations, you simply do not help Hungarian people as much as these people deserve and as fair as it would be. So, we right-handers cannot settle for a lower level of solution than to HUF at the rate of the day of admission, because this is the only guarantee that the victim will actually pay back what he owed. [[22.00]] And then we could still talk about the injustice of a lot of contractual terms. We could still talk about how these financial institutions could have burdened people with impunity in earlier, say, socialist eras, even the increase in the rent of the branch, and they had the nerve to send it out in a letter to those concerned. But in order to give an example of your previous administration, when the transaction fee was imposed, Hungarian small business operators received the letters that they would be charged the transaction fee for 4 or 5 months afterwards, which would be deducted from their account if there were enough in the invoice. So these Hungarian small people, small entrepreneurs, were exposed to an inhumane, faceless and insolent system across governments. In your hands, this would be an opportunity; otherwise, for a long time, it was a two-thirds opportunity to save these people; indeed, no one would be left on the side of the road. Compared to this, the forinting at or near a market rate with minimal discounts is very small, it is safe to say that these people have been betrayed. I mean, you're suggesting that every six months, while you're picking up new apparent rescue packages every year, these people get tired, they're really tired of fighting, and you see that now you can only try to get out of this with as little loss as possible. But in us good-for-nothings, there is a spirit of courage that we do not want to allow, and we demand full justice for these people. That is why we cannot accept this package in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-342	Thank you very much. There will be a regular speaker, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-09-21-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the basis of this bill, foreign currency-based personal and car loans will be HUF 31 billion at the market rate, according to the agreement signed by the government and the Banking Association in August. According to calculations, car payments may be reduced by about 10 percent. The LMP agrees with the forinting, not with its timing and mode. We are particularly opposed to the fact that we find it contrary to national interests that the MNB can win HUF 50-60 billion again on this transaction, which will be spent on new paintings, luxurious villas and the award of artificially expanded Foundation Boards. Financial institutions have taken advantage of their extra profit by tricking exchange rates, but now the losses are partly borne by taxpayers. The responsibility of the banks is enormous. They abused their dominant position. Responsible lending has developed in a way that, in many cases, loans have not been directed at borrowers by banks, but through various financial intermediaries and brokers, for the sake of extra profit, ignoring the interests of borrowers themselves. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] No real credit risk assessment was carried out by financial institutions, i.e. loans were granted to neck and head. This irresponsible behaviour could also be done because the contracts passed on all risks to customers, had no interest in carrying out credit risk investigations. And they could have done it because they were supposed to check the credit rating, but that didn't do it. It has contributed to the development of a loan lounge, which is also fed from the general government and business side, which has encouraged everyone to borrow without necks, and has made the necessary caution and responsible risk take unliveable. The forinting of foreign currency loans should have taken place a long time ago. The government probably didn't do that for two reasons. One was that it had a political and communication purpose. He could have been constantly tuning people against the banks, maintaining an enemy image that was so important to Fidesz, and he could have used it for political gain. The other reason could be that they expected what had happened, that consumer loans, car loans would fail sooner than housing loans, so the problem would disappear on its own. That was the case, but the total loss of indulging was absorbed by credible people. In addition, a significant part of them remained in debt after the loss of the pledge. That's what the LMP said earlier, that this is the road to debt slavery. And that is why LMP suggested the introduction of the debt ceiling and the right to walk away, but it was not accepted by the government protecting the banks. According to this bill, the ability to pay will be a condition for the aid, so those who do not fall with their loans or have fallen behind for more than 90 days can rely primarily on the preferential rate. Late debtors can expect forints to be made at the market rate for them. It is to be welcomed by the government that it is trying to reduce foreign exchange exposure, but for debtors, the forinting is carried out at a high rate compared to the rate associated with the date of admission. The 10-percent discount will not lead to a breakthrough for heavily indebted households, as there are about 30 thousand foreign exchange car-crediters with mortgages. At the end of the first quarter this year, the proportion of retail loans not performing beyond 90 days decreased to 15.6 percent, which, together with a reduction in debt and monthly instalments, could provide a reason for confidence in the further improvement of the indicator. However, the hope did not last long, despite the debt relief, in the next quarter the proportion of non-repayers rose to 16.3 percent over 90 days. In addition, the proportion of delays within 90 days has jumped from 10.1 percent in the first quarter to 15 percent in three months, which is not much good for the third quarter either. In the meantime, when the situation of the debtors does not improve, the Hungarian National Bank will continue to rob the country with state aid. It is calculated that you will win 50-60 billion forints on this transaction, which is public money, all of us's money. However, it is likely that this amount will also go to the social responsibility targets that have already been spent hundreds of billions of forints of public money. György Matolcsy continues to illegally build his state in the state, pursues education and culture policy, without any democratic mandate, without financial and professional control. To sum up, we agree with the forinting, not with its timing and mode. We are particularly opposed to the fact that we find it contrary to national interests that the MNB will win HUF 50-60 billion again on this transaction, which will be distributed to new paintings, luxurious forks and other unnecessary items. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-09-21-344	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes in a normal time frame.
u2015-09-21-345	Thank you very much for the floor. What we must never forget is that foreign currency lending was introduced in Hungary in the period of the first Fidesz government. Many families owe this problem to your government. And that was just their first step. It is good to see my fellow Members sitting in the back row with a smile, among the lines of Fidesz, even if there are only two left on such a large issue. [[Dóra Dúró: Three.]] It was hundreds of thousands of people and hundreds of thousands of families that you really pushed into the abyss. After all, in the last six years, we can now say that since you've been ruling, you could have solved this problem a long time ago. During the real estate loan, the problem of real estate developers a year ago, they tried to solve it, tried to start the process, unfortunately a lot of people were disappointed in you, because they had a minimum of confidence that it would be better for them. When they got their accounts and their forints, they faced the fact that they weren't as good as you said they were. We had already said that foreign currency credit applies not only to real estate but also to cars, and this should be extended with immediate effect. A lot of people got to their hearts when they saw the 400 HUF Swiss franc in January and received the next month's payment. Even then, you didn't feel the need to do something right away, and now we're here at the end of the year, and now you're rushing to do something. Orbán said that there will be a need to mediate between the bank and the authentics in the car and foreign currency creditors, as this is the task of the government. This mediation went so well that they have managed to buy a share of banks since then, surely they have not tried to solve the whole package at once, because then this purchase would not have gone so well. It also shows that you are now on the banks' side in a number of ways, looking better at what is good for banks than at what is good for foreign exchange lenders. [[22.10]] This can also be seen from the fact that the banks and the state will split the extra cost of forinting, but the banks and financial institutions will be able to write it off from their taxes. Besides, they're good at bailing out banks, but they're not looking at what's right for people. However, in many ways, the car-deviation-crediters have been in a very uncomfortable situation over the last year, and this is your very, very hard mistake. I don't know how they can look their own voters in the eye, some of whom have actually lost their cars, and they still have to pay the loan they took on their cars, and in many cases this will hit three times the original amount. It's really outrageous. We have presented you with an amendment that has been swept off the table again on the TAB. Minister of State Benő Banai also said that it is not possible to forint at the April 2010 exchange rate, because you have already agreed and agreed with the Banking Association. It is clear from this that, yes, the Banking Association is more important to you than anything else, that this agreement is more important to you than the livelihood of Hungarian people and the access of Hungarian people from one to two. The Secretary of State also said that it is no longer possible to put forints at this rate, because then what will happen to the people with house loans. We have already submitted this amendment to the home-credit company, and you have managed to sweep it off the table. But when it came to paying off, it didn't hurt for you that your better-style fellow Members could forint, pay off, and get rid of the credit that has been on the average person, the average family ever since. You have released these people at HUF 180, and now we are looking at the exchange rate: HUF 308 and HUF 256 forints Swiss francs will forint these foreign currency loans, which will really mean about a 10-percent reduction in loans to people with Swiss francs and dollar-based loans. Of course, this amount will also matter to these people, but how much happier, more balanced they could have been, and how much less people would have left the country in order to pay their foreign currency credit from their foreign payments if, say, they had been forinted or let out of this foreign currency loan trap at the rate of April 2010. But Fidesz doesn't care about that at all. The only thing that can be seen - it seems that we are debating such a law at 10:00 p.m. - is that you will be able to raise your hands and say that we have already saved you, and, as Secretary of State Tállai once told me, that it is only the troubled clients who are still suffering and having problems with these things. These are not the problem clients, but those who will now be completely disappointed will look at you: is this really the foreign exchange loan rescue package, is this really what you're trying to do to help them? The worst part is that they won't be able to pay their loan, but they won't be able to tell the neighbor how much trouble they're in, because the neighbor will say that you saved him and why the unfortunate man still complains that he can't pay when you rescued him. 'Cause the communications flow that they're about to start is gonna blow everything away. We can see that most of the time, when you make mistakes, you try to wipe things out with communication. It's just people's lives, it's young people's lives, who thought they'd buy a car so they could go to work in the city or go to school with it, and families who could get their kids into kindergarten and school, and they were trying to get from one to two, and now that you've done nothing for six years about car credit and for five years about home loans, you've actually got a lot of families out of the country, and now you're trying to save your family and pay these loans from your foreign salaries. You sided with the banks, not the people. I think it would be better for you to retire now. We do not ask you to accept our amendment, to submit it in your own name, to be people and to look into the eyes of your own voters. Thank you.
u2015-09-21-346	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-09-21-347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If it's a foreign exchange loan, then let's go back to the result in 2001: Orbán, Matolcsy, Járai. These three names must be familiar to two of our Fidesz fellow Members, Prime Minister Orbán, Minister Matolcsy, Járai and President of the Central Bank. Now, these are the people who are basically putting the story on the road. At a time when they want to benefit politically from the history of foreign exchange lending, they try to remember the start of the process and the persons associated with it. If decency is given by the pro-government representatives speaking, they should always be equipped with this internal content. Look, with regard to the foreign exchange charges on passenger cars, if you had thought seriously that you wanted to provide moderate assistance, you would obviously be destined to take a much stronger and timely, timely step, say, about a year ago, and would not have allowed a lot of people to go into the impossible situation they've been in over the past year. The problem is that not I think so, but a lot of people, that you didn't really want to solve problems, but also in this regard, like in other cases, to create tension and create the most impossible situation. Then, when there is a problem at such a level that it is almost unbearable, but it may be unbearable in fewer cases, it is necessary to take some level of intervention and thus to gain access to it, so to speak, that people say that, after all, the government has provided them with some sort of solution, while, in many cases, I must say, they are being deceived, while in many cases, I must say, the man in trouble was indifferent to you. Today, only a fraction of them are given a hand in some sense. And they claim that such agreements have been made with the Banking Association. Therefore, the forinting is obviously not at the level that integrity would otherwise require. You could say that you sided with the banks. You do say those sentences, or they used to say those sentences. We could also tell them to watch, decency would only require that the conversion take place at, say, 180 forints Swiss francs equivalent. No, but it's not about that, it's about something else. Let me remind you one more thing: I'm sure you'll remember the final payment. You will remember, however, when, within the framework of the end-payment, preferential opportunities were opened for those who could find 20-30-50 million forints in a short time. These are the people who are not among the people who live their daily lives, who live on wages and salaries, but, let us say, where appropriate, there were people, perhaps even here within the walls of Parliament, in the part of the horseshoe that I am looking at now, who had these resources and were thus able to eliminate losses of ten million magnitudes - in quotes. Oh, and you also remember what Parliament accepted by you at the time, don't you? If you don't remember, I'll help you. He accepted that the National Tax and Customs Office cannot examine the origins of these resources, nor bother the sourcers. How fair and how fair is this procedure, when, for example, in a tax investigation, when a person makes mistakes in the order of 50-100-200 thousand forints, he has to face severe fines? Here, when 40-50 million forints are found somewhere with someone, the National Tax and Customs Office does not know the sources of these funds, their origins. [[22.20]] Well, I don't want to go into this. The only reason I asked you to speak was to tell you that I don't think this procedure is correct. The procedure that gives and gives little or nothing to some and almost nothing to others is not fair. You've been on this path for a long time, trying to deceive, deceive and deceive everyone. It goes until now, but I'm convinced that after a while, this kind of politics will become ash, it will crumble. So I urge you to try a different path. Try to take a path that serves the interests of people living in Hungary, who achieve results from their two-handed work or knowledge in their minds and generate returns for themselves, so to speak, in the interest of the vast majority of Hungarian citizens, the people working in Hungary. I ask you, with all due respect, to be guided by this, not by what has typically appeared over the past period in relation to the issue of foreign exchange lending only in terms of political gain. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-21-348	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tállai State Secretary if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-21-349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think that the most important vote has already taken place today, namely that tomorrow the Parliament can accept this bill and become a law, i.e. the vote on the exceptional procedure. I'd like to thank two factions for that. One faction is the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank them. It was probably a vote of conscience. Their conscience spoke because they basically brought these people into this currency loan. This happened in their time, now it's settled. That's all we have to say. We did not expect that they would support it in the parliamentary debate, and this has happened. I don't appreciate the criticisms the government received about the bill, because there were few specifics, what's more, maybe nothing. I'd also like to thank the LMP, although he's not in the room anymore. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Who am I?]] , they also said that they support the forinting, and the Hungarian National Bank received a tough criticism on this issue, although if anyone was willing to do so and initiated it, it was precisely the Hungarian National Bank, but the Hungarian National Bank received the criticism from the LMP. Very interesting behavior of the Jobbik fraction. The Jobbik faction basically didn't support it, only one of their members, the President of Novak. We thank him for allowing tomorrow's vote, adoption and rapid entry into force. So it is no wonder that Jobbik's representative, Dániel Z. Kárpát, began an embarrassing explanation as to why Jobbik does not support this on a matter of 205 thousand good contracts for 300,000 people, why he does not support it, when he admits that there will be a reduction in payments, why he does not support it when he says that the market price... - or forgiveness - will make it more favourable for Parliament and the government, so it seems to be an urban legend that Jobbik supports all the solutions that are good for people in Parliament. Nothing but an urban legend, so it's not true. Nor is it true what agreement the government has reached with the EBRD. We have to watch the press, if they hadn't read the agreement, it's also public, it's not about the fact that banks can't be burdened and burdened, because if that were true, then this bill wouldn't have come before Parliament, because half of the burden, half of the HUF 31 billion, would have been borne directly by the banks. I would also like to remind you who would like to have a more favourable exchange rate risk, that the decision of the Curia must be adapted not only to the final solution to mortgage and foreign exchange loans, but also to consumer and car loans. Overall, thank you for your speeches. I see that tomorrow there will be no obstacle to the adoption by Parliament of this well-intentioned, helpful and truly definitive bill, which closes the nightmare of the age of foreign exchange loans in Hungary. I trust that tomorrow the Parliament will adopt this bill by a large majority. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-21-350	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Speaking after the first agenda, Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of Jobbik asked for the title of the world's fastest stenographers working in Parliament. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-351	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today I would like to speak to a part of the Parliament that few people know, even though it is always here, it works all the time, and the future would not be able to get to know the work done in Parliament at all without it. They are the parliamentary stenographers, who are worth talking about because Hungarian success has been achieved at the World Championship of Quick and Typing in Budapest. As today's plenum congratulated them, the shorthand category was completed in all three podium locations by Hungarian contestants. In shorthand category Zsuzsa Ferenc was the first, Erika Vicai was the second and Judit Árvayné Dani was the third. That's a fair applause for them. All three of them are parliamentary stenographers, read MTI's communication. The World Championship was held between 18 and 24 July in Budapest with around 550 competitors from 35 countries. The winner is Zsuzsa Ferenc, who has already won the first place at the 2011 World Championship in Paris, and has been taking notes of politicians' speeches for 22 years now. Congratulations on the result! This result is an excellent opportunity, and it provides a basis for us to get to know him a little better, to make him know the people in Parliament and with us, what shorthand itself is and how to do it. It is up to stenographers to sit in the middle of the Chamber, from the first word of the day to the last, to note all the speeches and even the yells. This is how the Parliament's record, the Parliament's diary, is prepared for eternity. A total of eight to nine people are working in a plenary session, changing every ten minutes - and there is a change just now - and they do so because a ten-minute text usually takes about an hour. Working hours are adapted to the meetings of the Parliament, so if Parliament meets all night, as it does now, they will have to follow this. Of course, most of the work takes place not here in the Chamber, but in the descriptive office, which is now very far from the Chamber, about 300 metres away, so they walk around the Chamber and the descriptive office every day. We could ask if everyone who works in Parliament will be a champion. You can say yes, because the terms of use of the Censor's Office are college, university degree and high-level shorthanding, from which a diploma is required, and even the cream of the profession is collected here, so it is no wonder that the winners are here. What's there to know about shorthand anyway? If shorthand is done in a master's degree, the speed of 400-500 syllables per minute is also available. Competitions and so on at the World Championships are being tested at an ever-increasing pace, and they have to write down ever-increasing texts. The top holder at home, by the way, is Dr. György Kappa, who has reached 500 syllables a minute. The task of shorthand can be fulfilled because it uses simple signs other than plural, uses marking methods, thus making writing simpler and saving traits. [[22.30]] He doesn't write everything down, he makes abbreviations based on specific rules. The basis and main advantage of shorthand is saving time and work. And what is the spelling of shorthand? It differs in many ways from the current writing, its signs are much simpler, and they consist of the following elements: straight, hook, loop, circle, inclinations, which are also part of the ellipse, and are currently taking note of this speech. The longhair uses these elements anyway, but each letter is composed of several elements, but the most complicated sign in shorthand is three elements at most. Now we could try to test their activities with a few tongue-breakers, with a raging line of words like maybe posterite, maybe plantative, maybe posterite, or something like your indescribableness. But that would make little sense, for we have heard that the challenges are not the tonguebreakers, but the speed of speech. Therefore, thanking them for their work and congratulating them on this occasion, I would rather read a quote as a token of respect, namely Géza Gárdonyi's shorthand poem, which is to be received with love and which says: "What an idea! Glorious divine thought! / Tie down the seemingly lively sounds that hardly came on the speaker's lips, / and dispersed like mists in fog. / Now the word, as it flies, starts to appear, will remain on the stenographer's arch: / The spark of the genius's fire will not die, / the heart of many millennia will burn with it. / Here too, there's also a curved pull, / And there's a wonderful shorthand in front of you. / Barely a few betrothed to a curt-iron / the captured army of fugitive words. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Congratulations on that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-352	The next item was the statement by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs on the complaint by Mr Zala. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-21-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the past period, on 10 September, we were able to attend an event at Zalatárnók, with my dear fellow Member, following an invitation there. More than a hundred mayors, notaries and representatives shared their problems with us, namely Zala's complaint. In order of your most important findings, I would just like to recall the most important things to you here. Most of all, the lack of public safety was mentioned as the difficulty of living in rural areas, but this was immediately followed by the disintegration of public transport and the impossibility of approaching their remote workplaces in time. But the same complaint was also mentioned about the lack of public services, because there are not enough kindergartens, schools, offices, clinics, but there is no pharmacy, post office or anything else, of course, which greatly impairs the vitality of the countryside. And their main complaint was the lack of employment, the lack of job opportunities. Now, please allow me to briefly quote the thoughts that they themselves have gathered for us, and in one or two sentences illustrate the difficulties they face. I would like to refer here, in particular, to the difficulties with the offices and to remind them. They write: the problems began with the removal of workers and employees from the offices that had worked well. The work taken to the district offices was minimal. In the case of municipalities, the number of people - in this case three people, referring to a specific location - has increased very much; I mean that the work has increased. This was complemented by a complete change in the accounting of public finances. The assistance in practical work was missed by the MAC. Reading legislation is no help. We need practical guidance. Too many expectations, continuing with the complainant's letter or report. We're short-staffed. Most workers with secondary education pay less than the guaranteed minimum wage on the basis of statutory classification. One job a man can't live up to. Local governments cannot finance the number of joint offices to help with the work. Of the clerks who did this, he quit. Many are exhausted and have health problems. There's no one to teach or train new workers. The problems have been indicated to solve the tasks, we try to endure, but if there is no change, the system may collapse at any time. This is how workers, mayors and notaries spoke there and tried to mention solutions, among other things, they wanted to call for a strengthening of municipal funding. I am very sorry that András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, has just left. They also called for a sensible and fair tender system and mentioned the lack of it, and the key word here is justice, so that there are no small favourite settlements, no partiality in decision-making, which one wins, or which one doesn't. Because at the moment yes, feudalism in communism poisons the country's Hungary, the province lords rule, and their vassals are rewarded in an appropriate way. And speaking of justice, that would also be a very important step forward, which, today, the Justice Committee has voted out of order to settle the mayor's salaries. Therefore, small town mayors should not earn less than a public employee in the case of a social mandate, since this puts mayors serving 0-24 hours in an extremely vulnerable and unworthy position at the small settlement. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-354	After the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech:. Until death, or a few words about lifelong work and the government's dismissal for men after 40 years of employment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Old people must be guaranteed health, livelihood and safety, dignity and active participation in society so that they can be seen as a resource, said Katalin Novák State Secretary for Family and Youth. It is a good objective, and this can also be fully agreed by the opposition. I think the resource output tastes too much technocratic, but that should be my personal taste. But first of all, what about health? As a result of the independent destruction of government and system, the nation's health assets have been destroyed, and the health and social sphere is becoming increasingly difficult to meet its responsibilities. It is well known that we are the sickest nation in Europe with our health and shocking mortality data that have become worse and worse for four decades. In both this and the average old-age pension area, my narrower Patria, Somogyország, is the district of the Danube, because a pensioner here, on a large average, may have huge differences, of course, will receive little more than 100 thousand forints a month. We can also look at security, but there is also an insurmountable gap between propaganda and the subjective sense of security of the elderly in their unheated homes after a life of honor. For good reason, they fear aging jackals who hunt for stone - age primitives and animal cruelty. In order to mention nothing else, it is enough to refer to old ladies who have been brutally beaten to death in Lenti-Mumor with a meat-cutting cleaver or to the retired uncle who was burned alive with his eyes. Clearly, under such circumstances, an ugly old age will often be a share of the young. After that, if we compare the words that ring well with the hand-driven tripping of the referendum initiative on men's 40-year retirement after employment, we are forced to conclude that, to put it mildly, there is a great deal of dissonance between the government's communication and its actions. In South Somogy and in many places, we started to collect the signatures needed to write a referendum, and many of our arches signed in a day or two. These people now rightly feel that their democratic fundamental rights have been trampled upon by the Constitutional Court's rejection decision. Many people ask whether even hardworking little people here have a say in anything or building new socialism, sooner or later it will be enough to put an x in the required place every four years. [[22.40]] Of course, we can already hear the argument that Jobbik's proposal would upset the budget. However, there is no reason for asking one of my street forums, who has been working for more than 45 years and who has been forced to slavle for three and a half years, why, if there is no cover for this, the Hungarian National Bank could throw billions into its questionable foundations. Although it is not a KSH-level data, the situation is well reflected in the case of the rural settlement where only five widowed men are available to the 88 widows. In other words, a large proportion of men die before they really enjoy the well-deserved rest. But young people also have reason to be confused, and they do not understand why it is good for the state to have tired people who work 40 years and who are often sick, which is why people who want to retire are forced to continue working while they - a generation of grandchildren - do not get a job and are forced abroad. In addition to the idea of lifelong learning, a new but not so sympathetic concept, the idea of lifelong work, must therefore be introduced to men who are obligated to die. Of course, we know that the problem behind pension matters is ultimately the problem of an ageing society, the insufficient number of births. The radically inverted Korfa is a demographic apocalypse-prone population trap for the Hungarians, for which, if there is no solution as quickly as possible, not only the Somogyia, leading the county line, but also the whole country as a sinking Atlantis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-09-21-356	Mr Sallai R. Benedek came forward after the next agenda: an effective addition to the servicetilism for Fidesz with the title of versatile incompetence. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-21-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very pleased to hear my fellow Member Luke speak after the agenda, and I wondered how good it is that our stenographers do not guard anything that the Fidesz people should have, and there is nothing left in their hands that some people would want to take home, so that they can remain the right professionals across governments in positions where competence is needed. Unfortunately, nature conservation is not in this situation, and in the case of the Hungarian nature reserve system, which has over natural resources, it is not important to preserve professionals. I would just like to take a very, very brief look at where we are going, because once, after the change of regime, we were at the forefront of Europe with our system of environmental and nature protection institutions, our national parks, our legislative environment, and we now have virtually an empty system of very little significance. Deputy State Secretary at the top of nature conservation and environmental protection, formerly called the State Secretary. Before 2010, he was called László Haraszthy, who became an agricultural specialist and became an ecologist at the University of Kossuth Lajos, and then worked several times in the current Environmental Ministrys as Head of Department, dealing with wildlife protection tasks, was responsible for the management of avian science and nature conservation, and from 91 to more than ten years he was the director of one of the world's largest conservation organizations, WWF in Hungary. That's how he became Secretary of State. Practically full-generation birdmen were brought up in his professional publications, which introduced Hungary's bird world in the eighties. His predecessor was János Tardy, also known as a specialist, and he was a geographer and high school teacher with a degree in nature protection, a doctorate in geological sciences at the University of Szeged, and he represented nature protection through several governments, through the MDF and then the first Fidesz government.Since 2010, he has been a Hungarian-history teacher, who earned an additional degree as a lawyer in 2004. He worked as a journalist in the Hungarian Nation, then the VI. in district Bajza Utcai Elementary School, he taught Hungarian-Hungarian history; then started an individual practice as a lawyer. We've entrusted him with the institutional system of nature conservation. Until 2010, Dr. Ildikó Filotás was led by the National Environmental Protection, Nature Protection and Water Inspectorate, who visited virtually all the existing steps at the Supervisory Board, became a member of the Board of the Hungarian Hydrological Society, obtained an EU degree in law and practically only written professional papers in the field of publishing work and water administration. After Katika Tolnainé's current successor, he became a specialist in geography and physical education, who also holds a professional qualification as a real estate valuer. He manages Hungary's highest level of authority in the protection of the environment and nature. It is worth looking at the changes that have taken place in national park management. Before 2010, for example, the National Park of Aggtelek was led by a biologist and cave expert Gábor Solomon, who became director after a decade of conservation practice and practically did all the professional work at the national park. Well, at the moment, Aggtelek has come from the Environmental Inspectorate, a leader without driving practice and national park experience, who obtained a specialized degree in engineering at the University of Veszprém, and in 2002 completed his basic degree at a university in Miskolc, which was not recognized by the state. None of this is a professional degree. At the moment, he doesn't have an environmental and nature conservation profession. The Bükk National Park was previously led by József Duska, a former forest engineer, who became national park director not only in forestry, but also in nature protection after nearly 20 years of experience. At the moment, Bükk National Park has its third director, one after the other, and there is virtually no change in competence. The Board of Directors of Hortobágy National Park István Sándor was a biologist, an ecologist of nature after graduation, and then he moved forward step by step and became director. His predecessor was Csaba Aradi, also a professor, a biologist. Currently, Zita Kovács has been appointed a lawyer, without driving practice, who has been working at the national park for only a year and a half and has gained his experience. It would be very useful if the institutional system of nature conservation, environmental protection and nature protection, too, enjoyed the appreciation of professionals and suitable managers. That's the wish I wanted to make. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-358	In response to the last agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró spoke with the title "Blessing the Child." You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[22.50]]
u2015-09-21-359	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Yesterday we celebrated the World Children's Day, and in our country not only must we pay attention to the circumstances of children living in the third world, what their rights are, how their rights are, but also to what is happening in connection with immigration. A very important aspect of this whole and of Europe's approach to this issue is the demographic dimension. Since 1980 the population has been declining in Hungary, and this can be said for virtually all of Europe, so we have wasted more than a generation of time not being able to increase our country, we have not been able to increase the number of Hungarians, and if this continues, we will be a minority in our own country within a closed deadline, and the whole of public finances and social security is at risk. We have come to this point today, and with this age, that all women of childbearing age should have four children in Hungary in order to reach the desired number of souls. How far away from reality this is, nothing can prove better than the fact that fewer and fewer children are engaged in the birth of the second child, and even more and more women with no children in the age group over 35. However, in families, couples who take on the first child, for some reason the second child does not come, even though a generation earlier the family model with two children was more typical, while now the family model with one child replaced it in its dominance. I would therefore briefly dwell on the shortcomings in the family support system that do not allow a second child to be born. Childbearing is not just a financial issue, but it is also an extremely important signal from a government, politics, to how it contributes to families who take on children, how it supports their daily lives. It's not just money, it's other benefits. In Hungary, after the birth of the second child, for example, there will be no discount after camping, after meals, neither will the nursery care fee - introduced by the Fidesz government in the previous cycle - become free, but we cannot talk about travel discounts, while in the case of the third child almost all of them are free, at least 50 or 90 percent. It can be seen, therefore, that the current family support system does not encourage parents or families to take on the second child at all, even though families will not be able to reach the four, as I said before. It is also necessary to rethink the role of women and to raise awareness in society of the contexts of employment and childbearing. While 30 years ago it was typical that more children were born in a family, in a society, in a nation, if we helped mothers stay at home - the longer they could stay at home with their children, this meant less loss for the family financially, the more children were born - this trend has now turned around, and in countries where women's participation in the labour market is higher, so the more women work, the more children are born. This should be taken into account, and this should be addressed in Article XXI. There is also a need for a 100th-century approach to the labour market, but unfortunately, very little progress has been made in the past. This is the material part of what I talked about in the first place, but there is also a part of the awareness of childbearing, and we have to ask how well Hungary, the Hungarian society, is on issues of consciousness. Unfortunately, we have to say that society is far behind, even compared to what the same society was a hundred years ago. There is also a need for a God-conscious, nation-conscious and health-conscious youth, and no progress has been made in this respect in the last five years. Sadly, we are not setting examples to young people that truly live their lives in happiness for the nation, the child that God gives, in accepting life, even though it would be as necessary to increase birth numbers as much as to increase financial benefits. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-21-360	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume our work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:52 p.m.]]
