u2015-12-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up to greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 26th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending the laws relating to certain public-law persons until closure. The submission submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Imre Vas, Fidesz, Members T/7834. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gulyás Gergely, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The purpose of the bill before us, a short bill, is clear, and the explanatory memorandum fully contains the reasons why the Ptké. We consider it necessary to amend or propose amendments to other laws. Technically, the substance of the proposal can be divided into two parts. One makes it clear that, in the event of the annulment of decisions of certain legal entities governed by public law, it is for the court not to annul the decisions but to repeal them. If we look at the case law of the past years, we see that there is no uniform case law in this regard, especially the new Ptk. After its entry into force, whether, when a decision of a public body or even a legitimacy of the legal entity itself becomes a dispute, the decisions of that public body must be annulled or repealed with retroactive effect; that is, until the decision has been taken, they have been in force and subsequently become null and void with the decision of the court. We would like to make it clear - that the need for this was clear in the context of the Chamber of Law, but other cases could also be cited as examples - that in such cases repeal is the appropriate legal form, which means that pending the decision of the court, they are existing decisions and should then be repealed. The annulment would lead to debates on the retroactive effect. The second case is a clear and clear clarification of the right to bring an action. Here's the new Ptk. has changed the written rules, but the legislator's intention has not changed, so we still believe that the right to bring an action is linked to the right to a legal person. As a result, if the right of membership is terminated, the right to bring an action will cease, but the legal interest will cease to exist, and therefore the legitimacy in the court will cease to exist, and the court will therefore have to examine whether there is legal legitimacy in the court proceedings as a whole, and it is necessary to pursue the case only and only in the event that such legitimacy exists. If, for any reason, the legitimisation in court is terminated, the court shall terminate the proceedings. Therefore, as has been the case in the course of bringing an action, the court had to examine the right to do so, and, in our view, this interpretation is in line with the guiding and majority judicial practice - that is all that makes it the Ptké. It is also clear at its level - and subsequently, the right to take the initiative of the review, the right to bring an action, the right to seek action and the legitimacy of the case should be examined throughout the whole proceedings. The absence of this entails the termination of the legal proceedings. We believe that we will help the judicial practice by a recent entry into force of Ptk. If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. This legislative intention is also consistent with majority court practice. Of course, there is a question of whether a single law decision could not do the same. But we believe that waiting for this for months or years, because the opportunity to take the initiative here does not belong to the Parliament to wait for months or years, results in legal uncertainty that Parliament does not have to stand by because of the obligation to cooperate with the constitutional institutions. I would ask my fellow Members, the Government, my fellow opposition Members, to be kind to the proposal, which is a professional proposal, to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-02-3	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to say that we support this proposal on the basis of the arguments put forward. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-4	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is indeed not a very extensive bill that Parliament is discussing, and I have to say that, in addition to the narrow technical aspects, the reason why Parliament should address the issue is that, in this problem, what Mr Gergely Gulyás, Vice-President, said as a reason for the bill, it is no longer possible to resolve the contradiction with interpretation, i.e. the application of law, in this legal situation. We therefore believe that legislation is necessary. On behalf of the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, I support the bill, as our assessment coincides with the assessment of the authors. The institution of annulment and repeal should be clarified, clarified, and, of course, the amendment of the rules of legal capacity in court laid down in the proposal is justified. This helps to apply the law, helps to ensure a uniform judicial case-law, and, of course, makes it easier and clearer for citizens to exercise their rights. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to point out that it is indeed a professional proposal, which is why I would like to ask the rapporteur what justified the amendment of each section. In part, my fellow Member Gulyás spoke about this because he brought up the chamber of lawyers and the renewal and the problems associated with it, which, for example, require amendments to the provisions on repeal. [[9.10]] I'm willing to accept that. I would like to ask you one question in this regard because the proposal to eliminate the problems related to the bar of lawyers was adopted as a five-party proposal that the bar of lawyers would agree here. So, was there any consultation with the bar to change this way? If so, does the Chamber agree with it, because it is obviously also a strong influence on our decision or support. In this respect, if the Chamber says that it does, we would, at least, like to support this part of the proposal. What my fellow Member Gulyás referred to, I would also like to refer to this in a slightly different tone as to whether it is our job to change, say, conflicting court practice on certain appeals issues, or whether it is the task of the court. I think that the latter is the right one, so I do not share my fellow Member's position here. Not even because, to my knowledge, it is not that the court has been tried several times to do so, and the court has not done enough, but that it is that the government and the courts have not discussed this problem yet, but, if it is different, then Mr Secretary of State will correct or supplement me in this. I believe that, since there is also the formal opportunity, not to mention the informal but otherwise legitimate opportunity for the government to engage in direct dialogue with the head of the National Court Office, or, in this case, with the President of the Curia, or the head of the competent Curia College, I can see the possibility of not amending the law precisely in order to safeguard the legal system, but that the government should start negotiations with the competent court leaders on the issue of establishing a position of a legal unit or even a college opinion on this matter, which orientations the case law or makes it directly binding in one direction. I say, in principle, that when something can be handled by court, law enforcement, interpretation means, we need to protect our legal system, and it is not worth doing so by law. I would like to suggest to Mr Secretary of State that, for example, the National Court Office is for this to be performed there, and that, I would like to say once again, the laws which allow the Minister of Justice to negotiate such matters with the President of the Curia. The second is a critical remark, but this is just a general critical remark on the proposal that I do not take a good view of it - and I do not see the concept in this, by the way - that the government is increasingly trying to limit the right to redress from the Fundamental Law or the Constitution to the lowest-ranking sources of law and legislation, both by subject and by subject law. For example, the elimination of actio popular in relation to the Constitutional Court, but more of these provisions can be seen in criminal law, civil law and, above all, now more recently in administrative and infringement law, where the scope of those who have access to redress is narrowing. Here, too, is a case where you can decide in two ways, give a wider circle the opportunity to appeal and give it to a narrower circle. Once again, with the understanding or practice of the government so far, this method of interpretation is obviously harmonised, but since I do not consider this to be a good direction, I will take this as a phenomenon, despite the fact that I can imagine that the Curia would move around in this particular case, let us say, in a legal unity decision. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if I have the right answers to those questions, I would not like to rule out that we will support the proposal, but I would like to have the answers to the questions raised, or I would suggest that, once again, the Minister of Justice negotiates with the leaders of the Curia so that we do not have to amend the legislation, that it is enough to interpret it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-02-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group, has made a statement. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-02-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás has already presented in detail in his exposé the T/7834 on the amendment of laws relating to certain public-law persons. The essential elements of the legislative proposal No.1 and the judicial decisions on this subject, which affect the submission of the bill, are, therefore, only the substantive interpretation of the bill, as well as the common interpretation of the bill, which is more understandable to non-jurists, within the framework of my speech as general speaker. Since the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the new Civil Code, some interpretation questions have been raised in relation to the judicial review of a decision taken by a legal entity. The new Ptk. the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to its entry into force Law, that is, the new Pt. 10/A. In the context of Paragraph 1 of the Act, it appears necessary to settle the rights of membership at a legal level, so that the legal person is only subject to the right to sue if the contested decision affects his or her rights and obligations as a member. Ladies and Gentlemen, The right to bring an action as a financial right is linked to the legal person's relationship with membership or other legal person. As a result, it is clear that if this legal relationship is terminated in the meantime, not only the right to bring an action, but also the legitimacy of the case. Thus, with changes in the circumstances of the right to bring proceedings during the course of the trial, such as the termination of normal membership, the legitimate interest in which the party may have brought the action is also eliminated. [[9.20]] It's the new Pt. recommended 10/A. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 seeks to clarify this interpretation of the law. The problem with nullity and repeal is that the legal language is not uniform today. While the new Ptk. to give the member the right to sue for the repeal of the legal person's decisions, until 2011, CLXXV on the right of association, the status of public benefit and the operation and support of civil society organisations. Law empowers the prosecutor to sue for annulment of decisions of the civil society organisation. Finally, the new Pt. recommended 10/A. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 seeks to clarify the interpretation for the courts or the enforcers by stating that the effect of the judicial judgment declaring the annulment of the decision is to rise to legal force, i.e. ex nunc. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support T/7834 on the amendment of laws relating to certain public-law persons. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-02-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, we have a proposal for a professional law, which the author has also told us. I would clearly divide this bill into two parts, on the one hand 1-13. Article 14 and Article 14 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Article 5a, in which the regulatory form is completely different. I think it is clearly eligible, which is 1-13. It is included in the sections of this section. As rapporteur Gergely Gulyás said why this is necessary and why it is important that a decision be repealed or annulled with effect. Obviously, it doesn't matter whether it's ex nunc or ex tunc with effect from the future, or ex tunc with retroactive effect. Therefore, the use of the word, which has been included in the legislation so far, does not matter if it destroys it. Because if he destroys it, then obviously we can think of the consequences of nullity. If it's destroyed, it's invalid, so it's retroactive. However, it is clear that in cases listed in the bill, the bill would always apply only to the future scope. This really simplifies the procedure of the courts, and does not simplify, but clarifies how to act and what legal consequences it has, the temporal scope of the actions in court, the decision where applicable, the repeal or annulment. I think that's certainly justified. Article 14 § 2 contains a completely different type of regulation. In this regard, I think that this can also be forward-looking. In some cases, it would ban the possibility of bringing a lawsuit, and in several cases it would allow for the termination of the lawsuit, which could in itself be good, because if there were fewer lawsuits - because there were no lawsuits in these cases - it would lead to a reduction in the number of lawsuits in these cases, and thus, in the second instance, the speeding up of proceedings in the court, as if there were fewer cases, they would be completed more quickly. However, I think this place has its pitfalls and its pitfalls. What do I see in him? In this connection, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also proposes a small amendment to the text, which would clarify the intention that the legislator would like to refer to here. What is the intention that I think should be changed? What could be the 14th? If we accept it with this text, is there a danger to this? This section says that the party's legitimization in court will cease if he is no longer afraid of that lawsuit. For example, if you lose your membership in that organization, you can no longer attack that decision and subsequently terminate the court's lawsuit. I think that the danger is that if there is a decision listed in the first 13 paragraphs of the legislation, that he or she must pay compensation to the person or the member, that he or she will initiate proceedings against him, that the court will also prosecute the review of the decision, and that this member will be excluded from this organisation, then you can claim that this gentleman or lady has lost her membership in that organisation, that she has ceased her legitimacy in court, and that the court can do nothing but terminate the case on the basis of this section. I think this could be a problem that opens a legal loophole, and if we don't tie this up, it could cause problems in the meantime. In this connection, we are submitting a very small amendment to allow the excluded member to continue the case even if it is excluded. If this is adopted, I think that this is moving forward in all respects, and in this case we also support this bill. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, which, in my view, was a little controversial. I see a contradiction between the text of the law and the reasoning, which would not actually be of much importance, but if the court had doubts about its legal judgment, the court would obviously, in addition to the grammatical interpretation, examine the reasoning of the law as to what the purpose of the legislator was when it made this legislation. Here I would suggest that 14. Paragraph 1 states that Article 10/A states that: In the context of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, it was considered necessary to settle at the statutory level that a member of the legal person is entitled to the right to sue only if the contested decision also affects his membership's entitlement and obligation. I do not think that is entirely true, because this applies only to members with special status if the text of the legislation and Article 14 thereof are applicable. I'll read the lyrics of the article. In the joint interpretation, this part of the explanatory statement does not seem to hold up, and there is some contradiction here. And one more thought about what I just said about the 14th. I think there's a need for some modifications. I see a contradiction here too, and this problem will be discovered in a sentence of the explanatory statement, which may also be decisive when the court may examine why this legislation was born and what was the intention of the legislator when it brought this place of law. This is the sentence of the explanatory statement that the right to bring an action as a material right is linked to the relationship between membership and other legal persons, otherwise it is clear that if this legal relationship is terminated in the meantime, not only the right to bring an action but also the legitimacy in the court will be terminated. This may be the reason why a person who has been disqualified in the meantime is unable to enforce his claim or problem arising from the previous legal relationship. That's what I see as a problem. If this is to be done, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate on the agenda. No two-minute speeches have been made, and further speeches are now taking place. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal is clear and, in my view, clear and therefore eligible. However, I think that what my fellow Member Bárándy has raised is a point worth addressing. It is clear that it is always the duty of the legislator to intervene if legal uncertainty arises or legal uncertainty is required. However, the consideration of this is not quite a simple matter. This is always a matter of serious consideration, namely the starting point where the legislator will have a role and the limit where judicial decisions need to resolve certain issues even within his own competence. [[9.30]] I do not believe that the situation of the courts can be narrowed down in such a way as to reduce this discretion. Where appropriate, the proposal is justified. However, I asked for the floor because I am convinced that the basic laws, such as the Civil Code, such as the Criminal Code, are subject to very small and sometimes barely visible intervention. It's risky because it can affect the unity of the law. So until then, the kind of intervention we are talking about today is justified, which is why I asked for the floor, which is why I consider this proposal to be eligible, because I do not see such a risk here until the risk arises. However, if it comes up in depth and it is clear that it is no longer a matter of wanting to change one of the parts of the civil code, but also serves more far-reaching purposes, it is necessary to explore all proposals very carefully and carefully. I am also convinced that, in a given situation, there is no way to circumvent the frequent suspicion of the opposition that a minor change may later lead to greater and more serious legal uncertainty. I therefore think that the lesson that should be learned in these matters is that it is only with great thoughtfulness and, not least, to try to change our fundamental laws in sub-areas if their justification cannot be avoided, if the established judicial practice no longer answers a question, and if there is a permanent disturbance within judicial practice, there is a permanent uncertainty. In the case at hand, I believe that this proposal can be supported. Everything I've told you, I've said a little bit of a projection. I want all of us to consider this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Gergely Gulyás, Vice-President, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-12-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the comments, arguments and arguments expressed in the debate, especially the fact that everyone appreciated the fact that the bill before Parliament basically aims to help legislate and intends to respond to existing problems, even in opposition speakers' view, most of the time, to the right answer. However, I would like to respond mutatis mutandis to criticisms in the first place. The first particular question was whether I could interpret the opinion of the Bar Association. We have received a request from the sports associations or chambers of commerce. The reason I have not contacted the bar is because I think the answer is clear in view of the debate that has arisen there. But since we are only at the general debate on the bill, there is no reason why I should be able to formally contact the bar of attorneys, and then we can continue this debate in committee with the Chamber's response. I believe that from the debates that took place there, the Chamber's opinion is derived from the litigation procedure in relation to the election of chamber officials, but I am obviously unable to advance this in the case of an independent professional organisation. But I will do so, and I will make this available to all my fellow Members, or at least to my fellow Members who are taking part in this debate. What my fellow Member Gyüre has raised about the exclusion: if Jobbik submits such an amendment, we will consider it. I would add that, of course, his legal solution gave the case, because if a person was excluded from any legal person governed by public law in order to eliminate the legitimacy of the court, and therefore also the lawsuit, he would obviously challenge this decision and the other legal proceedings should be suspended until the situation is clarified. But there is certainly a point in the proposal, so I will consider it, and then perhaps we can adopt a law that supports all the political groups of Parliament. I very much agree with my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács. When this problem arose, there was also the possibility that this would have to be or could be resolved either by amending the Civil Procedure or by amending the Civil Procedure. For the reasons and arguments listed by my fellow Member, I said that, after it was a matter of interpretation, where, moreover, the legislator's original intention was to interpret the accepted Ptk. in this form, so in this case, I do not see any risk in the light of all the dangers. In my view, the adoption of this bill can bring security to the functioning of public bodies. We can also rightly hope that in the event of unlawfulness, action in court, redress and action will be possible in the future. The adoption of this amendment can partially prevent a completely unnecessary, unreasonable and only a court of law seeking to prevent the implementation of certain decisions or creating uncertainty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Coming up on the European Union mission to train Somali security forces B/4580 submitted by the Government on a further Hungarian military contribution. Report No 7 and the H/6444 presented by the Defence and Police Committee on its adoption. Proposal for a Decision No 6 and the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic B/4969 submitted by the Government on further Hungarian military engagement. Report No 7 and the H/6445 presented by the Defence and Police Committee on its adoption. General debate on the joint proposal for a decision until closure. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the author of the report. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-02-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, There are two reports of Hungarian missions on the House's table. First, let me say a few words about the report on the Government Decision on further Hungarian military engagement in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic, the MINUSCA mission. The security situation of the Central African Republic remains unstable. For years, the country's security situation has been characterised by opposition from the Christian-Muslim and the ruling elite and marginalized ethnic groups. The former French colony rich in mineral resources and fields is one of the poorest countries in the world. On 10 April 2014, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 2149 approving the establishment and deployment of a multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. On 26 March 2015, the peacekeeping mission was authorised in advance by the UNSC until 30 April 2015 and its number was maximized to 11,800, supplemented by the deployment of an additional 750 soldiers and 280 police officers. At the same time, before the expiry of the UN mandate, it became apparent that, due to the continuing precarious security situation, it was necessary to extend the mission for one year until 30 April 2016, which took place on 28 April 2016 by UNSCR 2217. As a result of the expansion and extension of MINUSCA, the European Union on 16 March 2015 transformed the operation of EUFOR RCA, previously operating for the same purpose, but under the flag of the European Union, into a military advisory operation, Operation EUMAM RCA. In EUFOR RCA, Hungary has 1 head in Bangui, the capital of the Central African Republic, while two more have served at the operations headquarters in Larrisa. [[9.40]] However, Hungary has no longer played a role in the implementation of the new mission, Operation EUMAM RCA. In view of the decisions of the United Nations Security Council and in the light of the provisions of the Fundamental Law, further Hungarian military participation in the MINUSCA mission will require prior authorisation from the Government. Pursuant to Article 47 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the Government decides on the movements of the Hungarian Defence Forces and foreign armed forces by crossing the border. On the basis of the above, the Government decided in its decision that the MINUSCA mission should continue to include two main staff officers during the transition period for the period specified in the mandate of the operation, as I said, at present on 30 April 2016. Thus, the MINUSCA mission is currently served by two main staff officers. Further participation in the mission means the contribution of Hungary as a responsible UN Member State to international peace and security. It proves that our country supports and intends to play an active part in the UN crisis management operations, not only on the European continent, but also in a limited number of other continents, which is fully in line with our foreign policy objectives and security policy. The next mission, which is presented before this House, is a report on the decision taken in the Government Decision on a further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train security forces in Somalia. Somalia's security situation remains unstable, everyday violations against the civilian population. The activities of Somali-based Al-Shabaab gunmen in the region have only exacerbated the security situation. The forces are now of 8,000, and their troops have been established primarily in the capital, near the Kenyan and Ethiopian borders. The number of police is 6,000, which receive significant support from the African Union mission in Somalia. The launch of EUTM Somalia for training Somali security forces was decided by the Council of the European Union on 3 February 2010. The EU mission contributes to basic training by the Ugandan army, with modular training, in specific areas where they are unable to provide training. The Hungarian Defence Office has been involved in the operation since 2010, for which the public licence was granted by Government Resolution 1100, then only in Uganda, which provided the training space. The second public licence, Government Decision No 1227 of 2011, has actually extended its territorial scope to Somalia and has increased the number of guarantees to ten, which will increase to 20 during the conversion period. The extension in 2013 and Government Decision No 1915 extended this territorial scope to Kenya in view of the establishment of the Liaison Office in Nairobi. Although the government's permit is for up to ten people, four Hungarian soldiers, one officer and three petty officers are currently serving in the mission, given that the government's permit is just a framework and the European Union has not requested any greater contribution. On 16 March 2015, the European Union extended the mandate of the Mission by Decision No 2015 of the Council until 31 December 2016. Dear Parliament, In view of the decision of the European Union and in the light of the provisions of the Fundamental Law, Hungarian military participation in the mission was also required under Article 47 (1) of the Fundamental Law in this case by prior authorisation of the Government. On the basis of the above, the Government is responsible for the further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces, 1161/2015. In its Resolution No.3 of the Government, he once again agreed that, in the EUTM Somalia training forces, no more than ten members of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which will rise to 20 in the transition period, should serve and carry out the tasks of the mission's task system until 31 December 2016. As stated in the Government Programme, our country supports the completion of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and intends to participate actively in the European Union's crisis management operations, not only on the European continent, but also in a limited number of other continents. Hungarian military participation in the EUTM Somalia mission is in line with these efforts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] In this case, too, the Government's prior authorisation was required. On the basis of the above, the Government is responsible for the further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train Somali security forces, 1161/2015. In its Resolution No.3 of the Government, he once again agreed that, in the EUTM Somalia training forces, no more than ten members of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which will rise to 20 in the transition period, should serve and carry out the tasks of the mission's task system until 31 December 2016. As stated in the Government Programme, our country supports the completion of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and intends to participate actively in the European Union's crisis management operations, not only on the European continent, but also in a limited number of other continents. Hungarian military participation in the EUTM Somalia mission is in line with these efforts. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2015-12-02-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Defence and Police Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international peace operations is a constitutional task. The Fundamental Law states that, in addition to the protection of Hungary's independence and territorial integrity, the defence is also responsible for carrying out joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from international treaties, as well as for carrying out humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. We consider the international engagement of the defence to be a fundamental tool for the implementation of Hungarian foreign policy, which is also enshrined in the national security strategy. The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international missions strengthens our country's positions both in NATO and in the European Union, and it can be said that the experience and knowledge gained in international peace operations is also essential for the protection of our country. Today, about 700 soldiers serve in 12 countries as part of an international peace mission. 62 percent of our soldiers serve in NATO, approximately 23 percent in the EU, and 15 percent in UN operations. With them, more than a hundred highly skilled Hungarian soldiers work in NATO and EU headquarters. Our soldiers in these missions usually stand up, have a particularly good reputation, have outstanding knowledge and readiness. I will give a brief summary of the reports of the missions under the item on the agenda. On 10 April 2014, the UN Security Council approved the establishment and deployment of the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. He asked for a maximum of four main nominations from the United Nations Hungary to carry out the task. The MINUSCA mission is responsible for protecting civilians; assistance to local authorities during the transitional period; protection of human rights and support for the decommissioning process. The UN extended the date of the mission until 30 April 2016 due to violent incidents. Our country supports the UN crisis management operations and intends to participate actively in them, so the MINUSCA mission is in line with these efforts. In the future, four main staff officers would participate in the mission's activities during the transition period, for the period specified in the mandate. The participation in Operation MINUSCA is also part of the deployment of two main military observers. The other mission, which is still on our current agenda and which I have to address, is the European Union military mission contributing to the training of Somali security forces. The mission started in 2010 with the aim of supporting and strengthening the Transitional Federal Government and Institutions of Somalia through the training of security forces. In March this year, the Council of the European Union adopted the extension of the mandate of the Mission until December 2016. Hungary intends to maintain the level of ambition of the previous Hungarian engagement in the operation, i.e. a quota of 20 persons in a period of up to 10 persons, which will run until the date adopted by the Council. Our country wishes to actively participate in the European Union's common foreign and security policy efforts, which is intended to participate in Somalia's operations. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are present in peace operations in different parts of the world, even taking part in sharp situations, thus contributing to the success of these missions. Hungary is committed to creating international peace and stability. Like all democratic states, we have a responsibility to fight threats in international space, to contribute to the activities of international alliances. [[9.50]] The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the presentation and acceptance of the report of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-02-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. I'm asking you if you'd like to speak again as a lead speaker. [[For signal:]] The Member indicates that he has already presented his position as a keynote speaker to the Committee, so I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-12-02-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. We now have two reports and proposals for decisions on this. One, as the Secretary of State and my colleague before me have already mentioned, is a report on the Hungarian contribution to the European Union mission to train security forces in Somalia, and the other on the Hungarian engagement and reporting in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. Allow me to make a few statements on these, too, formally. On 3 February 2010, the Council of the European Union decided to launch a European Union mission to train Somali security forces. The extension of this mandate took place several times thereafter, and the Council of the European Union did so again on 16 March 2015, so that the extension took place until 31 December 2016 and the Government, as the Secretary of State mentioned, extended the Hungarian engagement until the same date. In the other case, the UN Security Council decided on 10 April 2014 to set up a Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. Its task, as has been mentioned before, is to protect civilians, help local authorities, protect human rights and support the decommissioning process. The UN Security Council also extended the mandate of this mission until 30 April 2016. According to the report, the engagement included the deployment of two other main observers. As this does not constitute a team movement, it does not require a public decision. In both cases, I would like to draw attention and declare that the Hungarian Socialist Party has already supported these missions and engagements, and, of course, we will continue to do so in the future, so in this spirit we will support both the reports and the related proposals for a resolution. What we need to see is what a dangerous world we live in, and I think we've all realized that it's getting more dangerous in a world. It is absolutely natural that international efforts to tackle the crisis, to establish peace, to maintain and maintain international security are essential. I think that it is absolutely clear that it is in our common interest, and the past weeks and months have, to say, been shown by years now, in fact, the sentence that has been repeated to the point of boredom, that everything in globalisation is connected with everything, and that events happening anywhere in the world that make the safety environment unstable, of course, affect other countries. I think that, while it may have been a phrase for certain people and organisations, it has been quite clear and you can see how quickly the effects of these events can appear in our immediate environment. Both in the case of the Central African Republic and in the case of Somalia and the region, as the Secretary of State has said, we are talking about enormous poverty, essentially failing states or, in the case of Somalia, failing states, which do pose a security risk both in the region and in the country in question, for the population of the country in question and for maintaining full international security. Such challenges, risks, or even threats - because we can say this about terrorism - could be terrorism, wars, civil wars that may appear in these regions. It is therefore quite clear that, in order to deal with these situations, there is a need for engagements, peace-building, crisis management, peace-keeping and otherwise state-building missions and assistance to ensure adequate security both at international level and for the population of that country. So it is quite clear, as we have done so far, that all the engagements, missions that take place on the basis of European Union, NATO, or under the international mandate of the United Nations, or at the official request of any of our allies, will naturally continue to be supported both in the past and in the future. We have seen that international engagement and cooperation can bring results. It is natural that many things, I think, should be learned, learned and further developed. We can even mention an example of Somalia, although we can basically talk about a regional security challenge here, but we still remember the use of NATO contingency naval forces to deal with piracy, but in order to actually remedy and mitigate the situation, it was necessary to have appropriate international law rules on the part of the international community. So I think that this is also a point that we should not forget, because we can talk about military solutions and means to deal with these situations, but we can do so in relation to law enforcement instruments, national security instruments, and we should not forget economic instruments - because it is important to further develop this area - and, of course, the appropriate social and social policy instruments. After all, we are experiencing enormous poverty in these states, people are living in enormous poverty, and it is natural that this will also allow radicalisation, the spread of extremist ideas, the emergence and active expansion of organisations that hold such ideas and relate to them, a huge risk not only to the region and not only to Africa. Speaking of support for missions: my colleague Imre Vas, who was before me, spoke very briefly about this, and I would like to give a little more details. In addition to contributing to international security and maintaining it in the region, there is no doubt that they are an indispensable experience for the Hungarian Defence Forces, for Hungary, and for our soldiers. We see that in these missions they gain experience and practice that is then the responsibility of Hungary, the Hungarian government and, by the way, the parliament, to obviously try to integrate these experiences into the operation of the defence. I am very pleased that the intention of the government to seek the necessary means and equipment to participate in these missions is visible, and to make it available so that our soldiers can carry out the task even if, let us say, the provision of international instruments would not be sufficient, and Hungary should be added to this. I think it's a very positive thing. [[10.00]] However, I would like to refer here to the fact that it would, of course, be necessary to modernise the technical tools at home, because it is clear that in these missions the Hungarian soldiers perform excellently, I think that this kind of experience is necessary to display it in the course of domestic practices and training, and this requires the same technical tools as are necessary to guarantee the safety of Hungary, to complete the basic tasks of defence. So allow me to say a few words about the current situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. It is quite clear that, unfortunately, the tasks will not decrease in the future, but increase. In order to do this, we need a sufficient number of soldiers, defence workers and sufficient staff available at the Hungarian Defence Office. I think that we are talking about a huge delay in this; I would not go further on Monday's debate on the adoption of that law - yesterday's Parliament accepted this - that it is, to say, an extreme overload for the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. I continue to think that we are talking about people whose performance is far beyond the average Hungarian citizen, but the goal is not to have them overloaded to the extreme, not to give, God, even to the detriment of the provision of tasks sooner or later, but to have the Hungarian Defence Office with the right number of powers. It is now apparent that the Hungarian Defence Office is currently unable to provide more power for a longer period of time. So the number of 5500 people who are currently understaffed must start filling up in any way. I think that within a year, it may be realistic that the stock of crews is up to 90 percent, and of course it is necessary to place greater emphasis on the training of officers from the next academic year, as we have seen countless times that there has been an over-subscription for officer training in certain years, so there are those who would like to take this course as members of the professional staff. Right now, the crew population is about a thousand, and I just wanted to say that to a point of reference. The next point is the means that I said that the intention to ensure that the Ministry of Defence has the right resources for these tools is actually visible, and the government provides the source, but we cannot go without saying that the Hungarian Defence Office's capabilities are constantly fading. So not only would the soldiers and the team that are involved in these missions have the right training, tools and experience there, but, of course, this should also be true for the domestic stock. It is clear, therefore, that the intention and concrete steps to renew transport helicopter capacity, which has been delayed for years, cannot be delayed, so I would like to draw your attention here, in the person of both the pro-government representatives and the government's representatives, to the fact that we must take action on this matter as soon as possible. We know that the fighting helicopter capability has completely ceased today, and the individual equipment is in terrible condition; of course, I am referring to the equipment that is involved in domestic practices. Therefore, the modernisation of these equipment must also be launched in all kinds of ways. I remember that Minister Simicskó stressed this and that it was important to bear this in mind. We would like to see the practical steps of this. It is quite clear that we are talking about a huge amount of money, since we are just adding up what I have just listed here, and I think I have not highlighted a lot of things yet, but we all see that security must be sacrificed in the future, although it will be extremely difficult to make up for what has accumulated in recent years. Allow me to stress here that it is a matter of fact that the Hungarian Defence Office has never been overfunded in Hungary. It's a matter of fact. However, over the last five years, more than HUF 200 billion has been withdrawn from the operation of the Hungarian Defence Service, so it is a huge lag and it is very fast to bring it in. I think that the citizens of Hungary also see how important the issue of security is. In fact, military equipment is just one of many things, but if we need these tools - for example, in helicopters, we can see how good they are in a disaster situation, and they do have to work - we cannot draw these tools out of nowhere. It is therefore necessary to think in advance and to continue to increase resources in this area. So we're gonna need more money for the operation. Based on what I've listed, I'd say we need a force reform. It is clear that there is a need to look at opportunities and the government needs to expand its resources for protection. We must also see that both the international community, the European Union and NATO can be as strong as their Member States are. For example, in the context of NATO, Article 5 on collective protection is mentioned many times, and I would like to continue to bring to your attention Article 3, which is about the proper maintenance of national forces and the provision of capabilities. So we have to take care of that, too. Of course, as I said, we support the adoption of these reports, the continuation of these missions, and we will continue to do so in the future. I would like to ask you, the government, to pay more attention to the right conditions at home. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-12-02-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-12-02-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Every time the Ministry of Defence brings a report on participation in an international military mission here to the House, we are one of the first to state that we, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, recognise the outstanding knowledge of Hungarian soldiers and soldiers, evaluate and acknowledge their abilities, acknowledge their position and endurance, wherever on Earth they may be. However, it is also well known that Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not support our participation in most international military missions, and it is very important to stress that our criticism is not aimed at Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian military personnel, but at decision makers who make these decisions in the first place, and the process in which the Hungarian government takes these decisions in order. We always stress that we do not agree with the procedure whereby the Hungarian Government has withdrawn the power of parliament to decide, seized the decision, and the Government decides to participate in such international military engagements and such missions in an accelerated procedure. We believe that this is a constitutional right - or at least it should be - for Parliament, not in the presence of 12 Members in Parliament, 3 Members should debate a matter of such weight as the question of these international missions. Perhaps the past period has shown to what extent, how deeply they affect the wide-ranging national security, the security of our country. I therefore find it totally unworthy to discuss these historical and fateful issues in such a brief report, which has been presented in a curious manner. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement has repeatedly tabled its amendment to the basic law, which we have repeatedly initiated so that Parliament has the right to discuss and decide on participation in international military missions. As far as the reports are concerned, and as far as the aspects raised by the Ministry of Defence are concerned, please understand. [[10.10]] So I understand that in such an international military mission there are military considerations, military considerations, and they have full legitimacy, but there are other aspects. I can see that the Hungarian military, the Hungarian soldiers, the Ministry of Defence, needs military challenges and experience, this has been said here on several occasions, the Secretary of State has also formulated it, my fellow Members have also formulated it, and I fully understand this; it is a legitimate need, but in a country, in a nation whose affairs we discuss in this House, there could also be other aspects, external aspects and broader national security aspects, which should be discussed, in addition to what the equipment of the Hungarian Defence Forces is, of course, the lack of the Hungarian Defence, the financial difficulties facing the Hungarian Defence and the rest. However, I do not see these aspects of security in the foreign and wider sense in such a unilateral report. I would like to talk a little bit about the issue that we are all concerned with here, my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, and also my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, the Secretary of State, and this is the asymmetric nature of the current conflicts in our world, which are relatively few words, and we are talking about a substantive issue from the point of view of security policy. In the current wars, the ability to fight, the equipment is only one aspect, a perspective, but we can see how much a highly trained conventional army, the total military superiority, is worth to terrorism in today's world. This needs to be seen very clearly in today's world, especially when we ask for an extension each year for international military missions because we admit to ourselves that these international military missions - nine out of ten, but I also risk not being able to deliver the results that they announced at the start of military missions in the long run. At present, the migration crisis has perfectly demonstrated the complexity and complexity of national security, the protection of a country. Terrorism must be faced as a result of the migration crisis, social, social, demographic and ethnic tensions must be faced, the risk of the virus must be faced, they are all putting the security of our country at risk, and today, due to the current circumstances and the nature of the current war conflicts, the enemy and those against whom we are fighting are no longer in different parts of the world, and they are waiting for us to confront them with conventional means, but they are here in Europe. The battlefield is already here in our capitals, our countries and their continent, so we don't have to go to Central Africa, Somalia or Afghanistan. These aspects should also be discussed, and it should be pointed out that, while we are engaged in such international military missions, and in the meantime we are forced to suffer the negative consequences of the migration crisis, the West, which is at the forefront of the organisation of these military missions, has no response or strategy on how to face the real danger, how to deal with it in the short, medium and long term, I do not see any kind of strategy being promoted either at rhetorical level, action or action at all. There is chaos and confusion both in rhetoric and in action among the countries of Western civilization, who organise these international missions and to which Hungary is invited to participate. As I pointed out earlier, and it also points out from these reports - since every year the government asks us for an extension of one year, referring, of course, to the United Nations, NATO, the European Union or one of the other organisations who ask for the extension of these missions - let us admit that the years pass and, rather than getting closer to the solution, we are moving away. Now I don't want to go into Afghanistan's 15-year-old Western military presence or Iraq's, Libya's, Somalia's, Mali's, Central African Republic's. Perhaps it is not an exaggeration to say that we have not drawn near to the goals that we have set many years ago with abounding ambition and great momentum. If we look at the history of these countries, all of them, we must establish that the Western countries that are currently organising international peace missions and which are asking us to participate in the military are largely part of the problem and not part of the solution. We are talking about the Central African Republic and Somalia, but we could also talk about other countries, as the findings that I am making here also apply. The fact is that the West, the Western world has done a great deal in recent decades and centuries to ensure that ethnic conflicts, religious conflicts, tribal conflicts in these countries go deep and go on for many decades and centuries, and now, when it asks for authorisation for intervention, military intervention and international military mission and asks for our participation, we cannot escape the idea that it is not primarily a matter of great authority, economic interests and other interests. This can be seen for both Afghanistan, the Central African Republic, Somalia and all other international military missions. If all these years have passed, and we need to establish - by continuing to extend the scope of international missions - that they have failed to deliver, because we need to establish, here too, that we cannot tell each other great success stories, then it is time to revisit our ideas about this, our strategy on this. We Hungarians know that we are a member of the UN, we are a member of the European Union, we are a member of NATO, and we are constantly being bombed from these international organisations with such requests as to participate in military missions of this type. However small a country we may be, however powerless we may seem in these great battles, let a sovereign country have its own right to decide to participate in such military missions with its own national interests in mind. Not foreign expectations, not high-power expectations - covered in the wrapping paper of any international organisation - let us not make these decisions in this way! Over the last 25 years, the expectations of the European Union and NATO have shaped Hungarian foreign policy and, in this sense, Hungarian defence policy; this should be eliminated. It is not true what we have been saying over the last 25 years that the price of our membership in NATO, the European Union and UN organisations is solidarity and shared responsibility; this is what we should do. In both reports, we refer to Hungary's role in these missions as a source of solidarity. [[10.20]] We define this ourselves on the basis of our national interests, on the basis of our regional security, and thus take part in international military missions. We are not pacifists, but we do expect us to participate exclusively in military missions in which the Hungarian national interest can be directly demonstrated. They constantly refer to NATO, UN or EU law. Everyone is careful to have the kind of consensus that allows such an international military mission to be launched. We know very well that international law, although I myself am not a lawyer, but I am engaged in foreign policy, and I see that the written and unwritten rules of international law are, in fact, nothing more than the powerful interest that is about the interests of the stronger, and that everyone else is expected to assist in the implementation of these interests. We know who writes international law, which is based on principle, but we also need to see that this is one of the tools to promote stronger states and that international organisations assist in this, in these international organisations, whether it be the United Nations Security Council, the European Union, these great interests that ultimately formulate expectations, and then it is about consensus, solidarity and the spread of responsibility in general. These international military missions have a very high price; while conventional instruments and regular armies cannot be combated by terrorism, we are on the map of terrorists and terrorism, international terrorism. I agree with what Congresswoman Márta Demeter has long said about the underfunding of the Hungarian army, about the shortcomings that we know about. I do not want to re-list here, but I consider it completely irresponsible to think that, while the Hungarian Army, the Hungarian military, and the Hungarian soldiers are fighting this type of hiatus, the Hungarian government... - I have 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary of State, in the main speech, I understand. Mr. President, right? Can I still say it? [[Miklós Soltész: Make it a little shorter with respect to the others.]]
u2015-12-02-24	Of course, since there is a consolidated agenda on two issues, 30 minutes, so please, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-25	Thank you. It's just that I'm having second thoughts, I didn't mean to abuse you, but I'm not gonna talk for 30 minutes.
u2015-12-02-26	You have the floor, Congressman. [[István Apáti: He has something to say!]]
u2015-12-02-27	I see. Thank you very much. So I agree with what Congresswoman Márta Demeter said about the underfunding of Hungarian soldiers, the tragedy of the Hungarian helicopter fleet. The problems that the Hungarian Defence Office has to face could be described for a long time. But I think it is completely irresponsible that, while Hungary is investing in such international missions from its own budget, whose objectives and outcome are completely uncertain and not a small amount of money is spent on missions of this type, our country is almost defenceless. And if anything, then this problem was perfectly highlighted by the migration wave, the migration crisis. The exchange of ministers at the head of the Ministry of Defence took place at a time when the migration wave and migration challenges certainly made us all wonder how safe we are in our own country, while the Hungarian Defence Forces are scattered around the world with a slight exaggeration as a result of the decisions of the Hungarian governments, and there is no Hungarian soldier in the country who can defend the country at such a critical moment. Let us not go into why the abolition of border protection has led us here, but, yes, the primary task of a Hungarian soldier, would be to protect the borders of the country, to protect Hungary's territory against the dangers that arise; to apply either in the light of a migration crisis or in the body of a military attack. So, whatever the threat, Hungarian soldiers in Hungary must ensure the territorial integrity of Hungary, not the Central African Republic, Somalia and other countries in which we cannot necessarily discover the Hungarian national interest by means of a magnifying glass; especially as the result of these military missions is far from what was expected and formulated when the missions were launched. In this sense, taking into account such a slightly more global context, and in particular the asymmetric nature of the current conflicts, Jobbik Hungary Movement is still unable to support the participation of Hungarian soldiers in international military missions. We believe that the time has come for us to take a close look at the results of many years of engagement, to create a new strategy, to revisit our policy, and indeed to change our strategy after a paradigm change in the mind of a defence reform and the strategic forces responsible for defence. In this sense, Jobbik cannot support these reports on this basis and, at the same time, its participation in these international military missions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the part of our faction, as a military man, it is my honor to state our position on this matter. I assure my fellow pro-government Members that I will not make use of the time frame, but I will inform the Honourable Parliament that the adoption of the report on the further Hungarian military contribution to the European Union mission to train security forces in Somalia by the May Other Politics is fundamentally supportive. On 15 February 2010, the Council of the European Union adopted the Union's endeavour to take a decision on the Somali mission, on the basis of which the European Union Training Mission in Somalia started on 10 April 2010 to support and strengthen the Transitional Federal Government and Institutions of Somalia through the training of security forces. On 16 March 2015, the Council decided to extend the mandate of the Mission until 31 December 2016. In the EUTMSomalia training forces, the Hungarian Army will send up to 10 soldiers from the Hungarian Army to Uganda, Somalia and Kenya until 31 December 2016. The other proposal is the adoption of a report on further Hungarian military engagement in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. In this case, the European Union will provide comprehensive support for the stability and security of the Central African Republic. EU experts will now help prepare for security sector reform, and the reform will allow the country to overcome the current security crisis. The mission will also play a key role in strengthening the security sector in close cooperation with the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. In parallel, EUMAM RCA provides advice to the military authorities of the Central African Republic on the necessary reforms to transform the armed forces of the country into a professional, democratically managed and ethnically representative army. The mission is part of the overall EU support to restore the stability of the Central African Republic, and in this case, the May Other Policy takes note of and accepts the EU's joint engagement. [[10.30]] The European Union's military operations shall be followed by EUFOR RCA, which shall contribute to the security of Bangui. The latter operation completed its mandate on 15 March 2015 and transferred it to the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic. The EU is the country's main development partner and humanitarian aid provider. Over €360 million of new funding has been committed to combat the crisis in the Central African Republic since 2013. Over the years, the European Union has also provided development aid to meet the basic needs of the most vulnerable. The position of our Fraction is therefore supportive of both reports, but I was forced to read it and say it in order to add our opinion. We would like to ask the Ministry of Defence to work as hard as possible to maintain peace and increase its resources. The May Other would like to ensure the leadership of the Ministry of Defence that he is willing to contribute to the possible rethinking of his budgetary engagement with the Ministry in the course of budgetary changes. We would also ask the Ministry to ensure, in any event, the conditions necessary for the current number of defences that are not sufficiently charged, for the purchase of adequate protective equipment, and accordingly, to use its development resources to give everyone the opportunity to have this protective equipment background. After all, I would like to say one thing. The May Other Politics basically represents the idea that Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad, that foreigners should not be in Hungary. With these general principles, we are experiencing, in a somewhat ambivalent way, the fact that global engagement can play a role and a role. I mention all of this because when my fellow Member Márton Gyöngyösi gave his speech as a keynote speaker, presenting to us the position of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, I came up with a question. As a opposition party, we, and others, are increasingly hearing that, whether it is the migration process or the work on current trends in the EU, more and more problems should be addressed at the root, rather than using resources for defence only in a pipe-end procedure. Would it not be appropriate, then, for reasons of migration, to contribute to the prevention of processes at the points of focus or hotspots where problems arise most, by increasing our involvement? I thought of this only because it might be worth commenting on whether, if we want to pursue a preventive tactic on social problems and risks of this kind, such as what it is at the moment, whether it is the threat of terrorism or migration for the whole of the European Union, it is not possible that the reflection and rethink expressed by my fellow Member in his speech should be moved in the direction of rethinking how the country can take preventive interventions in such engagements. With all these thoughts, I express our supportive attitude. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-02-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As independent Members do not take part in the debate, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, there will now be further speeches. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Group Fidesz.
u2015-12-02-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Every year, in any such debate, it is revealed whether it is necessary to participate in these military missions, and, if necessary, whether the necessary authority must be given again and again by the Parliament, or whether the government is competent in this matter and can decide. I think the debate is not in vain. We may be doing this in a narrow circle, but in fact we are talking about a broad and - I have to say - a wide-ranging issue for society and we are debating it. It is clear to me that all necessary - because, in my view, it is necessary - participations in which we appear are to be divided into legal, federal and moral aspects. These two rarely meet in reality anyway, I must say, but in this case it is particularly sharp. What we need to be clear is that the vast majority of conflicts obviously arose not now, not yesterday and not even recently, but during the period of colonialization. This can be detected in almost all areas. Would this then justify the fact that a country like Hungary, which has never been involved in colonialization, either independently or with Austria, is taking part in these conflicts? I think it is appropriate and necessary to give an explanation that is logical and acceptable. For a very long time - and let us have a brief historical rear-view mirror here - I must say that, since the emergency in Mohács, an independent policy that could have been militaryly independent, had no opportunity and was unable to do so. For this reason, he has always found his potential within an empire, and he has sought out the relationship systems within which he has served not only the empire's potential but also the interests of Hungary to a considerable extent for a long time. The first Pragmatica Sanctio, which already made clear in 1690 in the course of his sonship's succession what military obligations Hungary has had, was confirmed in 1723, and until 1867, as long as our existence was possible within the empire, it worked all the time. But let me point out that this was not just about a forced attitude, it was also in the interests of the country. And even wars that were very far from us served the good of the country. Let me give you an example. In 1847, when the Lombardian war had reached such an extent that Hungary had to ask for a soldier from the Imperial House, Kossuth himself supported and strongly supported Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, to vote for this war. Why? After all, he took a very firm stand in the fight for freedom, taking a stand in favour of Piemont all the time. What was the reason? It is in Hungary's obvious interest to prevent, at times, even the kind of moral reservations that, I think, can be expressed in all of us. Now let's turn back to the present situation. Dear House, It is clear that Hungary's protection and security are only possible today within a federal system and can be maintained here. Not only because our military situation and the state of our defence is as it is not now, but in 25 years, because it cannot be changed very quickly, but also because the world political situation is such that a country of this size, such as Hungary, could hardly stand alone in the series of attacks that occur in different parts of the world. Therefore, I think that our participation - and this is my first answer - is necessary in these military actions, but, at the same time, in my view, it must always be limited in size and even minimal in size. The government must strive, and that is why the decision must remain with the government, because Parliament cannot implement this, so that these sizes are always the most necessary, never go beyond that. This kind of aspect has been consistently continued by the Hungarian National Assembly since 1690, as long as the Hungarian Parliament operated in Austria at all times; the smallest and most necessary in order to maintain our security. There's a second point. Does this type of participation weaken or strengthen our security? The answer to that isn't that simple anymore. This, I think, from a number of perspectives, in military politics, which I have very little understanding of, but most of all, you have to be able to respond politically. Do they offer technical and other development opportunities that can be used to protect the country and are important for the protection of the country? If they are given today, they should be sought to be as strong as possible. If they do not give, we must start by seeking only improvements that can directly serve the country's defence. [[10.40]] Here, too, I must join in the fact that we cannot be too tight on defence in the coming time, nor can we have the budget, nor can we be politically small. Continuing to strengthen defence, I'm convinced, is one of the tasks of the coming times. I consider this to be an essential task because - I do not want to go into far-reaching political discussions now, especially not beyond our borders, but - it must be clear that the uncertainty is not only in Somalia, Afghanistan, the Middle East, there is this uncertainty here, in the Balkans, in our immediate environment. It follows that Hungary must also strengthen its own capabilities within a federal system, so for my part, when I can and when I have the opportunity, I support any initiative that will support the development of defence within the Hungarian budget, within our potential, in the following areas. For my part, I consider the report to be fair and fully acceptable and eligible, and I would say once again that the aspects that represent our own internal defence aspects must be put to the fore in these cases as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-12-02-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to add a few words to what has been said in three minutes, because very interesting comments have been made. As Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács mentioned and asked the question that it is also necessary to see what means, what experience, how they can contribute to the capabilities, it is very important to stress that these missions, with the development, procurement, do not give to God, the benefits of the alliance there, the joint task, as well as the development of interoperability and technical tools, can be extremely useful, because we can talk about the same capabilities and tools that can be deployed in connection with a mission, as we are talking about the protection of Hungary, even from one end of the country to another, so I think this is absolutely applicable and can be used in Hungary. It is clear that there is a need to draw experience and lessons from previous missions and past teen experiences, and I think that this direction is absolutely visible at international level, and everyone has recognised the need for it. Of course, I believe that Hungary will thus add to this experience and conclusions, and from then on these missions and engagements can be further developed. This is only necessary because, as my fellow Member Gyöngyösi highlighted asymmetric warfare, yes, it is a fact that we are not only talking about military means, but not just military solutions and capabilities. I would like to emphasise the importance of information here on asymmetrical states. So from now on, the issue of intelligence, intelligence, intelligence and information security is not only a military ability, but also the role of civil national security services, I think it will be even more appreciated. It is also quite clear that any country, power or alliance can have any weapon of fantastic high-tech technology - I note in parentheses - unfortunately, this does not threaten Hungary to have such a weapon, and we hope that this will change in the future - but even if such tools are not available for the application of these, or for the conduct of other law enforcement or political activities. So I would like to point out that the only reason why these missions are very eligible is because, following a peace-building and crisis management, we are talking here about the need to create a functioning public structure, the need to create a functioning state. It is also possible to launch stability, economic development, which is of course extremely important for the population of the countries concerned, and it can prevent terrorist organisations from radicalising those living in the region, thus contributing, of course, to the security of the whole world and of Hungary. We therefore support the adoption of these proposals and these missions. Thank you.
u2015-12-02-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group.
u2015-12-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Béla Turi-Kovács's comment also motivates me to respond briefly, in two minutes, to one or two of his suggestions. I fully agree with the wise findings made by my fellow Member, and we agree that Hungary's size, geographical location and current nature of conflicts force us into a federal system. We see that because of all these factors and given the current state of the Hungarian Defence Service, we cannot afford that luxury and we are not able to provide ourselves with our own protection. In this sense, there is no alternative to a federal system at the moment, but it must be added that whether Hungary is strong in all respects, especially militaryly or weak, is the decisive factor, whether it is weak within an alliance or not. So whether Hungary is in a federal system or in a federal system at all, it must strive to stand on militaryly strong feet and defend itself, be able to do so, because if we look back historically and go back to 1526 and look at Hungarian history from there, we must determine that we have never been able to rely on anyone but ourselves to defend our own borders, to protect our own nation. We say that we have the right to choose where and what military missions we take part. For example, the Balkans is an area where we can support our participation in international military missions to a great extent, since it serves Hungary's regional security better than a military participation in Somalia or a Central African Republic. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-12-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We did not think that a report or reports containing such dry, slick facts, figures, years, government decisions, the number of UN resolutions would lead to such an exciting debate. Although what we were discussing and what my fellow Members said in their comments was not closely related to the discussion of the reports. With the exception of one, speakers, both pro-government and opposition speakers supported the adoption of the reports, Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi was the only one who did not support this. In his comments, Márta Demeter, after giving the support, raised this debate from the discussion of the report and from the state of the Hungarian Defence Office, the number of the assets, the outdated nature of the procurement, which, of course, does not belong to these reports, but if she spoke about it, then - I do not like to go back much in time, but still - it is necessary to go back a few years to the Socialist Minister for Defence Ferenc Juhász when all this began. [[10.50]] At the time of Ferenc Juhász's ministership, the decision was made, and we may also call it a doctrine, that the Hungarian Defence Office does not really need real skills, because for many years, decades, Europe and Hungary will not be faced with challenges that would require a strong Hungarian defence, but the challenges will arise in foreign countries, and the Hungarian Defence Office will have to meet the challenges in different missions. So the basic powers are not needed, then the Hungarian Defence Forces have started to be dismantled. It is necessary to retain usable skills in mission tasks that are not really the property of a strong army. Thus, in this situation we arrived in 2010, when the Hungarian budget, the inherited situation of the Hungarian economy, did not, of course, allow us to devote all the strength and budgetary resources immediately to filling the gaps. We also know that those tools from Soviet times, even if they are not obsolete, will become obsolete in the near future, and their replacement is essential. I'm not sure it's the transport helicopters that solve all the problems of the Hungarian Defence Service in all circumstances and in any case, but we hear this a lot. There may be other thoughts guiding those demanding the immediate purchase of transport helicopters, I don't know. We really need to move forward in many, many areas. When NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg visited Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also said at the press conference that it is necessary to increase military force, and we will do so. After 2010, we had the power and opportunity to undertake to increase the Hungarian Defence budget by 0.1 percent of GDP from 2016. That is what we have done and we will if the budget gives us the opportunity to do so. And if the opposition representatives support it, we will, of course, continue to increase it, as the goal is to achieve 2 percent of GDP, which, by the way, if we look at the 28 NATO countries, very few countries do. Some of us have moved forward, some of us have been able to make a bigger move, but we have now been able to take this step. However, we know it, too, Prime Minister, that we must, and we will, take action in this area, because that is our national interest. Mr Márton Gyöngyösi did not support the reports nor the foreign Hungarian missions, except for the Balkan missions near Hungary. This is a very old debate, a conversation between us, and this will also lead in part to the response to why the government decides in these cases, as Congressman Róbert Benedek said, to bring the Hungarian soldiers home from abroad and take the foreign soldiers away from us. Does this idea lead us to lock ourselves in, be alone, without allies? Mr Gyöngyösi also said that Hungary's size and geopolitical situation does not mean that we alone, by isolation, are building a huge military force. But we do not have the option, because we have decided that Hungary is also a member of the United Nations, a referendum has decided to become a member of NATO and the European Union, and when, under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law, the Government decides which missions the Hungarian Defence Office is involved in, of course considering what its capacity and power is to contribute when it receives the request, the government will do so with a strong public mandate behind its back, as these are decisions arising from the federal system. When we decided to take action against the Islamic State of Northern Iraq, we decided to do so here in the Hungarian Parliament, because it is neither a United Nations, nor a NATO, nor a European Union alliance, a casual alliance that the Parliament decided here with two-thirds authority. So I think that this is perfectly okay in public law. In the case of a commitment from a very strong referendum, the government decides what service Hungarian soldiers undertake in the mission, and of course we do so by looking at what the Hungarian Defence Forces have in mind. Congresswoman also said that when soldiers do these services, they perform very well. Every time we meet and talk with representatives of NATO and partner countries, they say that Hungary is in excess of its own weight, and the soldiers are doing excellent work, for which they are also honoured and thanked for this place. But this is limited - I say to the Member - our level of ambition is a thousand, if that wording is to be used, so that does not mean that all Hungarian soldiers are serving abroad. Even now, the number of soldiers serving in the mission is below a thousand, and they have acquired very, very serious skills and skills, which was a useful skill and skill at the time of the immigration crisis, as many soldiers in these missions have learned how to deal with a crowd of hostile behaviour that is not needed here, but could have been needed at the southern borders of Hungary. Congressman Gyöngyösi opened the debate even higher and wider when he spoke about the fact that the world's security situation has changed so much this year, perhaps in a few months, that we need to think about what different and new challenges we are facing and how we respond to them. These two missions were carried out on the basis of previous requests and mandates, but the aim would indeed be to solve, for example, the lives and lives of immigrants where they were born, and they are very likely to want to spend the rest of their lives. Obviously, they don't leave because they suddenly have such a thought. In the countries where most people come from, the situation is indeed uncertain and unstable. And it's also an interesting and exciting debate about how these unstable situations developed, who caused it, who took part in it, and when we thought we were going to solve a situation in Iraq, was there a scenario for those who wanted to solve it then what would happen after Saddam Hussein. Obviously, no one cries back Saddam Hussein's decades of dictatorship, but there should have been a script for what would happen next. Today's situation is also linked to this, as the Islamic State is also very much active in Iraq. [[11.00]] Yes, the question of how effective the mission, the mission to Iraq, how effective the support was, the training of mentoring soldiers was when we saw that the Iraqi soldiers were not very heroically, headlong refugees when they were attacked by the Islamic State. So this will also be a very exciting and very meaningful debate. But we are part of these federal systems today, and we must act accordingly. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Thank you very much to my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, for approaching this situation with the wisdom of the elderly and helping us to make the right decision when we need to make a decision. Thank you very much for your support, and thank you very much for having such an exciting debate in the Hungarian Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the two reports in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I didn't just thank you for being polite because I followed what you told me on television. I will ask Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Defence and Police Committee, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2015-12-02-39	Thank you very much. After replying in detail to those raised in the debate, I would just like to say that, since no one is in dispute, both in Somalia and in the Central African Republic, Hungarian soldiers have done their job well, I would therefore ask all Members of Parliament to support the proposal for a resolution during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Coming up on the situation of nationalities in Hungary [[February 2013-2015 February]] solo, by the government B/6626. The report submitted and the adoption report submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/772. General debate on the joint proposal for a decision until closure. The heads of the factions received the information from the State Audit Office, and my fellow Members may also receive it from the Office of the Court of Auditors. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen of the Nationality Spokespersons! Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2014 was an important year in the modern history of the 13 ethnic communities living in our country. After the parliamentary elections in 2014, nationalities could first become involved in the work of the National Assembly under subject law. It is well known to you that in both the preamble to the Fundamental Law, the National Creed and its standard text, the nationalities living in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors. The state undertakes to preserve and cultivate the language and culture of nationalities, respect the achievements of its historic constitution and the Holy Crown, which embodies the constitutional state continuity of Hungary and the unity of the nation. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. And the law on the rights of nationalities opens up the Community and individual rights of nationalities, the substantive, legal and detailed rules for the choice of their local governments. The nationality law is 150. According to section (a) of the Act, every two years the government reviews the situation of nationalities living in Hungary and reports it to the National Assembly. In compliance with the legal obligation, the Government reports to Parliament the content visible to you for the period February 2013 to February 2015. The previous similar government report covering the period from February 2011 to February 2013 was adopted by the Parliament in November 2013 on 98/2013. According to the Parliament, the government reviews every two years the situation of nationalities living in Hungary and reports it to the Parliament. In compliance with the legal obligation, the Government reports to Parliament the content visible to you for the period February 2013 to February 2015. The previous similar government report covering the period from February 2011 to February 2013 was adopted by the Parliament in November 2013 on 98/2013. (Rule XI) 27. by decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the last two years, significant progress has been made in the field of family representation, support policy and the completion of cultural autonomy. The parliamentary and municipal elections in 2014 and the publication of the detailed results of the 2011 census were decisive events in the past period. One of the most important events of the reporting period in terms of nationality policy is the 2014 parliamentary and municipal elections. As a result of the spring parliamentary elections, both the 13 ethnicists representing Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian communities are represented in Parliament. Through them, all nationalities are now officially involved in the work of the Parliament. During the Autumn elections in 2014, 2146 municipal elections were held in 1523 municipalities. 60 of the 64 regional minority elections were held, the largest number in Budapest, in the case of 12 nationalities, with the election of 13 national minority self-governments. About 64 percent of the voters in the register belonging to 13 ethnic minorities in Hungary took part in the election of the representatives of the minority self-government. As a result of the municipal elections, at the end of the reporting period on 1 January 2015, 2100 municipal and 60 local governments operated. The preliminary results of the census carried out in 2011 were published beyond the last reporting period in March 2013 and are therefore presented in a detailed summary of its ethnic aspects. Over the years, the number of people who confess their ethnic identity has grown, and the proportion of people in the population has increased by about one and a half times compared to the 10 years before. According to the census, nearly 6 percent of the country's population, a total of 644 524 people, belong to one of the nationalities. The significant increase in the ownership of nationality identity justifies the good direction of legislation and national policy practice, and the positive development of the social climate. The combination of support policy and census results will increase our chances of promoting the functioning of living, real communities. The latest census figures are essential in two contexts of nationality policy. On the one hand, the municipality in which the elections to the local government were to be held in 2014 and, on the other hand, 428/2012 on the conditions and arrangements for the clearance of grants from the appropriations for nationality purposes. According to the 2013 amendment of the Government Decree, the operational support of municipal and regional minority self-governments will take into account the census data from 2014. [[11.10]] At the same time, language rights also depend partly on census results, following the 2014 national minority municipal elections, and in the context of the 2011 census data, the linguistic rights of nationalities in settlements where their proportion within the population reaches 10 and 20 percent respectively. There are also conditions for the establishment of joint municipal offices subject to census results. According to the above context, the results of the 2011 census define the nationality policy for the following years. Government oversight of nationality policy has not changed in the period 2013-15. The centre of government activities related to nationalities remained and remained the Ministry of Human Resources, where the State Secretariat responsible for ecclesiastical, ethnic and civil society relations falls within the competence of relations, support policy, cultural and international issues affecting nationalities. During the same period in the same ministry, the Ministry of State responsible for social inclusion, the State Secretary responsible for social affairs and social inclusion from 2014 onwards, is responsible for coordinating the social integration of disadvantaged social groups, including the Roma in particular. In addition, matters relating to nationality policy concern, of course, other fields of the Ministry, such as education or culture, and all other wallets. This report gives a comprehensive picture of everything that has happened in the area of domestic nationality policy over the last two years. It summarises the range of government initiatives, the orientations of the activities of ethnic communities. It also addresses the implementation of our country's obligations arising from international documents, the international events of cooperation on nationality policy. On the basis of the agreements concluded with the governments of neighbouring countries and of several provinces in Germany, there have been bilateral minority joint committees for about two decades. A review of the recommendations adopted at their meetings is a focus on international relations. In drawing up a report detailing the implementation of the individual and Community rights of the communities concerned, the rapporteur asked the ministries, national authorities, national minority authorities, as well as other organisations and institutions. The report was drawn up following the processing of the brochures from individual areas, which conveys detailed information and data on the national minority policy processes of the last two years to those interested in ethnic education, culture and media, as well as in the local government sphere. Dear Parliament, All details of the report covering different areas are not possible in the expoze. Therefore, I will focus on a few points of focus on the rest of what I have to say. During the reporting period, the area responsible for public education also carried out its tasks in relation to nationality public education in cooperation with the national national minority self-governments and the National Nationality Council during the two years of the reporting period. In addition to the institutions maintained by the national minority self-governments, several municipal self-governments took over the maintenance of a nationality public education institution from the local government and KLIK during the reporting period. The measures aimed at improving the educational opportunities of Roma children are also detailed in a separate chapter through the presentation of the measures of the Hungarian national social inclusion strategy. In the governance structure, the minority cultural area continues to be managed by the Ministry's Secretary of State responsible for culture, as in the last reporting period, and by the Ministry's State Secretary responsible for ecclesiastical ethnic and civil society relations. During the reporting period, the funding of the budget for ethnic cultural purposes was managed by the Ministry. In addition to the named resources for nationality purposes, the National Cultural Fund and the National Cooperation Fund's proposals also provided grants to nationalities. The portfolio consults its bilateral international cultural agreements and work plans with its strategic partners, such as national governments of the respective nationalities, and sometimes national cultural organisations. When regularly reviewing the fulfilment of the recommendations of the Hungarian-Slovénian and The government also supports the preservation, development and assistance of the mother tongue culture of nationalities in the ecclesiastical area. The large established churches place emphasis on the provision of nationalistic pastoral services, and they also provided national service according to the needs of the faithful. For example, the Catholic Church, in German, Slovak, Croatian, Polish and Slovenian, the Greek Catholic Diocese of Hajdúdorog, and the Miskolc Apostolic Exarchate in Ruthenian and Romanian, the Evangelical Church also provides pastors in German and Slovak. The religious communities in Hungary are also playing an increasingly important role in promoting Roma inclusion, integration and inclusion through Gypsy Pastoralism, not only in the service of Roma and Gypsies, but also in the field of the further training of priests and clergymen. The nationality civil sphere is an important area of the preservation of the mother tongue and cultural identity, and therefore there are a wide variety of funding sources for applications and individual support, both for their operation and for the implementation of their programmes. The role of civilians has traditionally been emphasised in preserving language, culture and identity in the period between two elections, as an organisation marking before the local elections. In Hungary, laws guarantee the operation and operation of the ethnic language media. The public service broadcasting services provide regular, native radio and television programmes for all 13 nationalities. In support of national governments, the central budget provides financial resources for publishing national newspapers and media. Hungary's international activities involving nationalities take place in several forums. The core institutions of bilateral cooperation concerning the domestic relations of nationalities in Hungary are the joint minority committees, whose activities include our country's special attention to multilateral relations, including international organisations. Among the latter, the Council of Europe stands out, as we regularly report on the fulfilment of the commitments of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, We achieve common social policy goals with nationalities. Their educational, cultural and ecclesiastical aspirations, thus preserving their language and identity, are supported and supported by financial resources that have increased several times in recent years. When you think about the fact that support has increased greatly between 2010 and 15 it is all for the period and the political and ethnic aspirations that we have summarised in the report. Here, let me highlight just a few things about the change in aid only in the period 2014-15: the support of local and regional minority authorities increased by almost 55 percent. Operating and media support for national minority self-governments increased by almost 28 percent. [[11.20]] The support of the institutions maintained by the national minority authorities increased by 52 percent, and this increase continues in the following year, thanks to the activities of the 13 ethnic advocates sitting here in Parliament, and thanks to the good cooperation that both with the Speaker of Parliament and with the majority fractions of the Fidesz-KDNP and with the other factions. To conclude, therefore, I would like to thank everyone for the activities of the past period, all those who have done so in order to preserve, improve the quality of the educational area and increase the support system for nationalities, ethnic life, culture, ecclesiastical territory. Thank you, too, for your political support to those who have helped with these goals. In summary, I can conclude by saying that all the ethnic policy that we have developed and developed together serves as a model, and in many places it is mentioned in neighbouring countries or in other countries as the example to be followed in many countries, and this has an overall impact on the lives of Hungarian people living in the Carpathian Basin, so it is much more complex than 13 ethnicities in Hungary. Thank you all very much for your attention. I would like to ask for your comments on the report and its adoption at a later date. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, also in a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-12-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee shall submit to the Parliament a proposal for a decision to adopt a report on the situation of nationalities in the territory of Hungary for the period February 2013 to February 2015. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. under law, the government submitted to Parliament a two-year report on the situation of nationalities. The Justice Committee discussed the report at its meeting on 9 November 2015 and concluded that it was submitted by the Minister of Human Resources on behalf of the Government and informed the Parliament about the situation of nationalities, and that the Justice Committee supported the adoption of the report. According to the Committee, the report transmits detailed information and data to the Parliament on the national minority policy processes of the last two years, on the events of ethnic education, culture and media, as well as on the processes of national minority self-governments. The committee welcomes the fact that, following the parliamentary elections in 2014, all 13 ethnic communities are represented by minority advocates in the National Assembly, so through them all nationalities are officially involved in the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of this, the Judicial Committee shall be composed of B/6626. He proposed to the Parliament that the report be adopted. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-44	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, The voice of the minority advocates invited by the committee representing nationalities is now taking place within a total of 15 minutes' time frame. First, I will give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue, and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2015-12-02-45	I salute the President and Parliament. May I ask my colleague, the Bulgarian advocate, to begin our comment?
u2015-12-02-46	You can ask for it. [[Imre Ritter: Thank you very much.]] I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who also, I hope, presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian.
u2015-12-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself. Representation of nationalities is the cornerstone of the survival of the community belonging to nationalities. The government and the central administration consider the resolution of national minority policy issues as partners, since the 13 nationalities have direct parliamentary representation, so we can participate in the work of the National Assembly, and we are also involved in legislative processes by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. The report before us covers all important issues in detail and in depth, including the tasks still to be resolved. I would like to share our experience on three issues relating to the report, and our further comments are presented by the German spokesman Ritter Imre. In point 7 of the report, it deals with the mother tongue media of nationalities. The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. According to law, the central media service aims, inter alia, to meet the media needs of nationalities, to present its culture, to care for the mother tongue of nationalities, to present the culture of nationalities in Hungary to Europe and to the world. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has dealt with the issue of ethnic media on a number of occasions. It is also recorded in a decision that national needs are not or are not met with sufficient emphasis in the current television broadcasting structure. With regard to the integration of public media, we have only partially achieved our old dream of representing the greatest possible, but most importantly, a new audience in the field of information and current news on ethnic life. The legitimate needs of nationalities are wider than they were during the reporting period, but this broader need can also be said for the present period. We are sorry to see that people working in ethnic programmes have also been decommissioned, even though we believe it is essential that editorial staff have a native language attachment. In several cases, the chairmen of the national self-governments or ethnic advocates have expressed their displeasure with the change in programme time. Critical comments due to changes in broadcasting dates were shared by spokespersons with the CEO of MTVA, as well as with the head of the editor-in-chief of ethnic, foreign and priority projects. In this area, it is necessary to work in the future to improve effective cooperation. Direct communication channels are needed through which the minority government can provide information to the media. This will enable up-to-date information, which is important not only for nationalities. Our aim is to ensure that the majority society also has up-to-date information about our lives, but the media should also provide more publicity to nationalities. The question of when and in what way archive materials are cataloged and preserved is important for the outsourcing of production processes. The focus of the national programmes, which are generally magazine-like, presented on public television, is not only based on the care of the mother tongue. At the same time, we believe it is essential that the news about our lives - national holidays, church holidays, folk customs, events - is also known by the majority of society on the day when it is the case. We are fondly recalling the day of nationality held in May 2015 in the public media, where the country's population actually had one day of programmes presenting nationalities. It would be nice if this tradition were to continue. The slowness of the CSO support system has emerged as a major point in the discussion of the report. The general experience was that in the course of the reporting period, funding was significantly delayed. Of course, we know that the EMET must comply with legal requirements and that civil approval should be put forward. [[11.30]] However, it was difficult for civil society organisations to experience that the funding was, where appropriate, half a year late. Unpredictable payment and lack of information make operation and planning impossible in the lives of our civil society organisations. In this area, we urge that the funding of the proposals won in the future be made more smoothly and within the deadline. The third part of the report discusses the additional tasks of nationality policy, their direction and their aspirations to achieve them. In addition, I would like to include an overview of the operation of the national government in the light of the SAO audits and findings carried out in 2015. I would consider it appropriate to define precisely which regulations should be drawn up and updated for the legal functioning of a minority self-government with no authority and authority. National authorities do not carry out their tasks with an extensive apparatus, such as, where appropriate, local authorities, where reporting and monitoring of the apparatus of 150-200 persons is required. In this sense, it would also be appropriate to review the mandatory regulations in the future, as the burden of official tasks in terms of the performance of tasks varies considerably between local and national authorities. Dear Parliament, Overall, we thank the government for its report, which I thank and recommend its adoption for its detailed and meaningful development. Благодаря завашето внимание. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-02-48	Thank you very much. And now I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre. You have the floor.
u2015-12-02-49	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich es kurz kläre: den 15 Minuten-Zeithmen des Ausschusses haben wir nicht deswegen aufgeteilt, damit ich nachdem vor mir sprechenden bulgarischen Parlamentsprecher meine Gegenmeinung erörtere; ganz im Gegenteil: ich bin mit seiner Aussage einverstanden, ich kann ihn diebezüglich nur unterstützen und ich möchte ihn nur mit einigen Fragen der Nationalitäten ergänzen. Mr President, Dear House, Let me be quick to clarify: the 15 minutes available to our committee were not shared to express minority or counter-opinion after the Bulgarian speaker who spoke to me; on the contrary, I fully agree with what he said, I confirm them, and I would like to add further aspects of nationality. If a sentence could be devoted to what has been said earlier, and this will be the only negative sentence of my comment, it is that if there has been an area in the last year and a half where we have not been able to make progress, and even our situation has deteriorated, it is MTVA. But I'm confident in this area, too, because there was a change of CEO, and I think that if you go down, sooner or later, you're going up. Nationality, minority: there is not only a stylistic-language difference between the two words, but also a very significant difference in content. The primary characteristic of us is not that we are a minority, we are few, we are different, but that we belong to one or more nationalities, and this is extremely important. This understanding is the basis for establishing a loyal, compassionate, fair politicalisation of nationalities. In recent times, I have started most or a significant part of my contributions to Parliament with - the 2013 Budget Act, 2014 reports on them and the rest - that I am in a lucky position, because I can express my opinion completely honestly, without any influence, because the nationalities living here in Hungary had little to do with the preparation, adoption and implementation of these laws. At the same time, I have read this report with a very good feeling, because this is the first piece of material that comes before Parliament that actually takes only half a year of the parliamentary mandate, yet there was hardly any part of it that, if you had read, you would not have felt a significant change from the previous one. There has been a significant change not only in what the Secretary of State said, but also in the extent to which national minority self-governments, the institutions they maintain, the support of local minority self-governments, the funding framework for the adoption of national minority institutions maintained by the national minority authorities, but also because these changes were of such scale and scale - after 6-8-10-15 years of unchange, which spans almost half a lifetime - which rightly shook up and gave a new vision and opportunity to the nationalities living in Hungary. And here I would like to stress that this is not about the person of the parliamentary advocates, but about the parliamentary mandate, the parliamentary committee, the possibility of Parliament's work, the systemic change. The fact that this year and a half allowed us - I am quite certain - to talk more about nationalities living in Hungary here in the Hungarian Parliament than in the previous 20 years. The fact that Hungarian politics, as well as the Hungarian majority society, received significantly more information and information about the nationalities living in Hungary, learned about their situation, their opportunities, problems, their results and the development of an intensive, forward negotiation and legislation that really improved the situation of Hungarian nationalities. If you can say so, we have moved from minority to nationality by introducing the 2011 nationality law, and the last year and a half gives us every chance of developing a majority opinion from nationality in Hungarian society, as has the amendments to the last period initiated by the minority committee, if you can say so unanimously, adopted by the Hungarian Parliament with a clear majority. I would therefore like to thank the Hungarian Parliament, all factions, opposition groups, decision-making factions, independent politicians, despite all the problems and additional tasks that exist. I would like to thank the Ministry of Industry, Minister Balog, Secretary of State Soltesz. It can be said that, yes, we have had serious negotiations. Sometimes we were a little impatient, but we could always keep our case going. And even if it's not normal, I think that once in two years Imre Deák, Deputy State Secretary Attila Fülöp, Antal Paulik, Head of Department and Richard Tirsti, may be mentioned, because they are dedicated to helping us with all the tools and opportunities - I think that is definitely the case. Finally and in closing, because there is work coming from everything for the future, I would like to point out that the report also contains very well the tasks that await us, whether to raise the quality of nationality education or to amend the nationality law. And yet another important thing, which, in amending the parliamentary law, I think, could be a serious basis: we have had a great deal of difficulty in initiating the declaration of nationality in practically every proposal other than three laws. This government paper lists 80 laws in the list of nationalities legislation, only in the last two years, 2013-2014, and 160 in different government regulations. I think that this could be the basis for us to start amending the parliamentary law in this area. Once again, I would like to thank the whole Parliament, the competent ministries, for their help, and I would like to underline, as a closing point, what State Secretary Miklós Soltész said that the real rights granted to Hungarian ethnicities in Hungary will bring the greatest advantage to Hungary and to Hungarians across the border. I am glad that the Hungarian Parliament has understood this over the past year and a half, and this is a significant guide to its actions. Thank you very much. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[11.40]]
u2015-12-02-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-02-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, When discussing the report on the situation of nationalities in Hungary, we need to ask whether the country is well-organised. To answer such a comprehensive question concerning society as a whole, we must first turn to the expectations of the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law also commemorates nationalities living with us in the preamble and Article 29. Nationalities in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality shall have the right to freely undertake and preserve his identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. I am convinced that the implementation of the principles of the Fundamental Law has been confirmed in recent years. Hungary is a true country of nationalities and is a supporter of their survival. This shows that the courage to take up nationality has also increased, as nearly 50 percent more people today claim to be national citizens than the 2001 census data. In this context, I propose to lay down the interpretation framework that, in addition to the state's willingness to support, no one in Hungary today feels that any disadvantage could arise from the confession of its nationality. The most important political content of this fact is that Hungarian ethnicities can live freely, with respect and fear in our common country. National legislation frees self-organization, name use, representative opportunities, in other words, everything that can be used freely as it has been accepted in all organised societies in Europe. Nationality is a voluntary commitment, and there is no reason to dispute this decision, nor should any refusal to do so be condemned. In any case, it is to be appreciated that a person's commitment to the community of fate resulting from his past tries to preserve the values of his ancestors and carry it forward. The attempt to survive is one of the greatest choices seeking identity, and today's political and social situation provides all the conditions. The civil government is also a treasurer, a public policy based on respect for traditions, and so the commitment of nationality coincides with our traditional aspirations. Nationalities in Hungary receive a number of support in all areas of their lives, which the report contains on nearly 200 pages, but quality and demanding life is not primarily a question of money or subsidies. A good citizen's well-being requires, above all, a peaceful life, a good quality of public life and privacy, in which he can acquire material goods according to his knowledge and talent. This will be achieved if the state does not set limits because of nationality and society does not make it difficult. Nationalities cannot complain about the Hungarian state today. During the current parliamentary period of the civilian government, indigenous national minorities have been given the opportunity to participate in the parliamentary decision-making on ethnic matters. They are the minority advocates in the Parliament. During the Commission's debate, the Ukrainian ethnic advocate Hartyányi Yaroslava also said that Hungary can be proud of this legislation. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held 39 meetings for 74 hours; it discussed 21 individual motions, defined as an item on the agenda for the interests and rights of nationalities. Four legislative proposals have been tabled, of which the Parliament has already adopted three. The Committee has three subcommittees and three working groups. At the same time, representatives of nationalities also play an intermediary role in communicating with their home country. Data show that national minority advocates are regularly involved in promoting bilateral relations with mother countries. It should also be mentioned that Hungarian nationalities are good partners of the state in the field of protection of interests, the implementation of cultural and educational programmes or the development of legal protection. In addition to all the details, the contested measure and the legitimate objection, we must acknowledge that the objectives of the Fundamental Law are correct and that they are being implemented within an orderly framework. The report was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. I would like to quote Imre Ritter, a German nationalist advocate, who stated in the discussion of the report that the report contained the will of nationalities, that there is an opportunity to intervene in their own lives. Dear fellow Members, I encourage all of us not only to accept this report but also to do the best possible to ensure that the social well-being of nationalities remains permanent and unquestioned in our country. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2015-12-02-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Salacz. I now give the floor to Mr László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Speaking Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The present report clearly and clearly shows how 13 national minorities live in Hungary, what opportunities they have received and what opportunities they intend to give. The meaningful report shows the deficiency and the effectiveness, and I think it is important to talk about both when we talk about the 13 minorities and nationality in Hungary. When I am talking about the shortcomings, and I would like to start with that, then it is possible to see and perceive them a lot in the report, in this meaningful and large report, that if we take it in order, it is very important for me to ensure the possibility of voting rights, too, and I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party also considers it important that this has happened. We really feel that the deficiency is that in 2011 the electoral law system was linked to the census of the HCSO, and the census was enough, as was the adoption of the electoral law. The law defined the number of persons who could create minority and minority self-governments in a given settlement, and this was a problem because more than one nationality did not apply to the census as many as should have been required to comply with the conditions of the law. So I think that the law should have given us the opportunity to show how many people can take the initiative of minority self-governments in suffrage, so I think it is a failure. By the way, the government tried to deal with this issue because it said that it limited the number of people in a settlement not 30, but in 25 people. [[11.50]] However, there are still settlements in which there is no nationality government, and this is the Roma community in particular. Therefore, the electoral law and the census were in no way synchronized, because if they had been synchronized, then it could be said that it was absolutely fine. However, the reason I think it is good to highlight the good things in this section is because the law provides for the possibility of ethnic advocates in the event that their mandate is not shown from another side. In this case, all 13 nationalities, which could not reach the threshold to obtain parliamentary seats, can now sit in Parliament's horseshoe and act as advocates, which is a very important thing, because they could raise the level of minority advocates to a level that domestic nationalities certainly deserved. I very much miss the fact that everyone is not here - I'm sure they have important things to do - but I miss Félix Farkas most, because it would be important that the representative of the Roma population be present, if he has been given such a great opportunity to represent the Hungarian Roma society here in Parliament. I therefore believe that there is a positive side to this electoral law. But I would go further than the electoral law: let me say a few sentences about the local, regional and national municipal systems. It is perfectly all right that these municipal levels could have been created, although I do not see the territorial level today either, so that the county level is justified, because the county municipalities are not usually able to handle this law and they cannot place national self-governments, and it is not only about the Roma, but also about the other 12 nationalities. As a result, I believe that it should be dealt with in any case by law or regulation, how better cooperation could be achieved between county-level and regional minority self-governments and county-governments. I think that this issue must be resolved, otherwise the work of ethnic minorities in the county will not result in an activity that will certainly benefit Hungarian society. It is therefore very important to address this issue. The issue of nationalities at local level, I think, is almost resolved because they can cooperate with local authorities, these cooperation agreements are much more regulated, they go back a long time, so there is a history of this cooperation. I must note here that on the side of the resources themselves, on the side of the operating budget, is a problem for the local minority self-government as to how they can operate. These municipalities can now receive operating grants from between 200 and 300 thousand forints for a year, which means that it is impossible to ensure operation from nearly 300 thousand forints a year. I know that there is the task-based support, which is often said, but, in terms of task-based support, funding is still unclear how it can be received by a local minority self-government. This issue must be dealt with. So what is important here is that, at local level, the operation of minority self-governments and municipal authorities is organised in several places and the two institutions seem to work well together. On the other hand, funding is not okay, and that is quite a lot of problems, I think. National government is another part of our lives. Here is the number that is often said, which is how much financial support is given to national minorities. First and foremost, national authorities have received greater support from the state, the government, which is not a problem, so I think it is quite all right that they have received this funding, but in many cases the spending of funding cannot be monitored, and I am thinking primarily of the National Roma Municipality. I told the Justice Committee several times, as we have discussed this item on the agenda, that money cannot be wasted in Hungary today, so that it cannot be traced either to the SAO or to the various bodies of the government, how it is spent, how much use has been made of the source they wanted to devote to public affairs, to Roma affairs. We can see that there's been a waste of money at a high level. I would not go into the numbers, because I think that I would not want to go into a number war right now; only one thing is certain: Flórian Farkas's spending of money leaves something to be desired because I see and sense that public opinion not only within the Hungarian Socialist Party, but also outside the parliamentary faction and the parliament, is that there is no way to allow Flórian Farkas not to speak on the accusations that affected him, because if in this report on matters concerning politics or the local governments, Florian Farkas is being accused of what he is, then I think he must speak, because otherwise he reflects badly on the Roma community in all directions and on the Fidesz faction and on the government itself, because the Roma did not choose him for the Fidesz faction, but Fidesz chose him. I therefore believe that Fidesz has a responsibility and that the government has a responsibility to where it wants to go on this issue. So I think that all sides of the electoral law are okay, the source of national authorities - besides the Roma - we say that it is completely transparent and transparent, and this is very important. As regards the Roma self-government, we also want further investigations to be carried out by the competent bodies, so that society can clearly and clearly see what the resources are spent on, on which it is really clear in the report that there have been increases, and I think that on behalf of the other national minority self-governments we should also thank the government for paying such attention to this issue. Speaking of policies, a few questions. On several sides, the report discusses the educational situation, the taking over of public education institutions, that different national authorities have taken over these. I would also like to note here that the National Roma Municipality is not clear on how the educational institutions operate. So I think that the Roma society in Hungary did not benefit here again, because it can be seen that the institution takeover has indeed taken place, but the financial use and the numbers are not synchronized, based on various signals and reports. Therefore, I would like to ask that education and studies should be put into emphasis, if the institutions are handed over mainly to the Roma minority self-government, then it should indeed be impeccable, and it should be transparent how many students spend their resources there and how many students there are. I am experiencing a lot of shortcomings in education in general. I think that Roma - in the case of other nationalities I wouldn't dare to comment so much - can certainly see that the disadvantage is very difficult for them to get to college levels, because after completing primary school they can still somehow gain a profession or reach a secondary school system, but the support system that means parental deficiencies or lack of resources does not compensate the state sufficiently and does not give the poor a chance - once again, I stress to the poor - and also to the Roma in order to ensure the possibility of further education. Therefore, I think it would be very important to rethink in education how scholarship schemes can reach the Roma community in a targeted way, because today, it is not possible to see how many Roma primary school students finish primary school, to know how many young people graduate from college or university. As a result, I would consider it very important for an independent institution to stand up, which can follow up on the fact that, once again, in Hungary, how many people can reach the state scholarship system in the case of the Roma until they have completed higher education. This would be good because, on the one hand, there would be an even larger intellectual layer on the Roma side, and on the other hand, the non-Roma, who demand - and rightly demand - what the nationalities spent the money for, could be proven in black, white, how many people received funding for a scholarship that helped them to learn. Therefore, greater transparency of the system of society and of the Hungarian community would also be ensured. Therefore, I would also consider it important that something should happen on this issue, one more time, an independent foundation such as the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation - which was abolished in 2010 -; I think that I could imagine a similar public foundation, which would represent curators from several sides and thus ensure its independence. [[12.00]] I also have to say one positive thing here, because I think it is very important that kindergarten care has become mandatory since the age of three. I think that this was definitely a positive step by this government, because it can be seen that in the poor and the people with multiple disadvantages, in the Roma, this will certainly be a handshake that will enable the child to continue to learn, thus establishing his future in education, and this is certainly very important. The other food is also available here, so I think it is very important that kindergarten care has been made compulsory from the age of three, and this can certainly be welcomed. On the issue of employment: I have already said at the committee meeting, and I would like to say that public employment is a very important and positive thing, which provides an opportunity for many Roma origins, especially in smaller villages, but also in cities, to obtain only one source of livelihood, but I would also like to add and add that this does not constitute an outbreak point for Roma in Hungary. A break-out point would be if we made public employment interoperable, which means that we could move towards adult vocational training or start and start marketable employment in this direction. I do not see these two as yet that marketable vocational training is available to adults. We know that István Türr deals with a lot of things, he also deals with vocational training, and this is a pretty good presentation of the Roma population, but its impact and effectiveness do not reflect, which means that we still have a lot to improve here, not to mention the entrepreneurial sphere where very few Roma people can enter. As a result, I think that the Roma community is also very lagging behind in the field of employment, because a government cannot rely only on public employment, but it must be given the opportunity to live on more feet, and I think that the majority of Roma in Hungary expect this in the next period at least. On the issue of housing, I am missing from the report that the trend towards the eradication of settlements has halted. There are no lines in the budget, even though we know that some 120-150 thousand Roma inhabitants of nearly 600-700 thousand Roma population still live in Roma and Roma settlements, and their situation is an extreme poverty. This means that this image is not handled, so the housing issue, the employment issue and the educational issue are not dealt with in complex terms, so the biggest shortcomings can be seen here, especially in the region of North Hungary and Eastern Hungary. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And I would definitely consider it very important that there should be a change in that. Thank you very much for your attention, and thank you very much...
u2015-12-02-54	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's got a 30-minute time frame, we'd love to hear it.
u2015-12-02-55	I was wondering, though. Thank you very much, then a few more questions. I knew I had a 30-minute window. So in employment, these things need to be taken into account. I went into housing very briefly, and the other is the health situation. The health situation of the Roma in Hungary is absolutely determinative, because we do not deal with it. The report also contains prevention issues, but the only way to really remedy the health situation - I would like to use that word - is to deal with employment and housing, because we cannot deal with this issue only through screening in the Roma population. Therefore, I think it is very important to tackle the health situation at this level. Culture was also mentioned in some thoughts. I think it is possible for all 13 nationalities to say that there has been progress in culture with the possibility of using languages, because the nationality law provides and ensures this as an opportunity. The use of language in different communities is becoming more and more gradual than could otherwise be heard from advocates in the horseshoe, who greeted those present and television viewers in their native language. It is very important that we have come this far, this is also positive in the report that we have read, and it is important that the government has launched such an opportunity, and the use of languages in Hungary is no longer a question. However, I say that we will have to pay much more attention to languages in the near future, we still have a lot to improve in the written area, which means that the volume support is not synchronized with the use of language, the magazines are not synchronized with the use of language, and I want to enter the media immediately with the magazines. In front of me, the spokesperson has already said that we do get the opportunity to be in the media when very few people are able to watch it, so the schedule within the media needs to be completely restructured, and I think it would be appropriate to extend the timeframe that is now at the disposal of nationalities. Here again, on the Roma issue, I would like to mention with some thought that we had only one radio in a very large format called Radio C, and in Hungary and even Central and Eastern Europe, one of the radios that broadcasted in Roma languages, and this, yes, was also operated by private funds, and all governments supported the operation of Radio C. However, this Radio C has now ceased, and now there is no institution, there is no broadcaster that could report in both languages and, of course, in the Romany language, in the Romany language, in the Romany language and in the Oláh gypsy language. So we very much miss that this opportunity has ceased in Hungary, because I think it was very important in the life of the Roma in Hungary. To sum up, I think that the funds for the operation of the Roma minority self-governments need to be restructured, the money is there, but it doesn't matter how they are structured at local, regional or national level. Let me tell you a few thoughts about civilians. And for civilians, I do not see that the source we have always provided with the support of the National Civil Fund programme - I will return to the eight years - is nearly HUF 7 billion in support of civilians, and today it is not even HUF 6 billion in total. So it would be important for civil society organisations to think about it, because the support of national authorities and civil society organisations must ring together somewhere, and it cannot be that they are trying to highlight only one civil society organisation, Lungo Drom, which is, by the way, an ally of Fidesz, and as an ally, will receive additional resources for the media, extra funds for the purchase of headquarters in Budapest, while other national civil society organisations in the Roma system will not be able to access funds that would be close to the greats that Lungo Drom, Farkas, Flórian will receive in this case. The allocation of aid must therefore be much more structured. I miss it here, and one of the important parts of my summary is that in public education the institutions are transferred, but there are no cultural institutions for ethnic communities. I am also talking primarily about the Roma, because here we hear about the purchase of various large buildings that have been made at the National Roma Municipality, but our cultural institutions, educational centers and centres do not exist. In order for local communities, regional communities and national communities to be able to cooperate really well, believe me, it will not work without the establishment of a system of institutions, where community power can be created, and whether language use or opportunities in education and other areas that are important. If we try to start what we see now only from those levels, then we will not succeed, so I think that creating the background to institutional systems is very important. Once again, Mr Secretary of State, I think it is very important that you discuss the issue of an independent foundation. I think that we then elected József Varga, a representative of Fidesz, as president, and we will not regret it, because we think that if the opposition is there with an eye on it, then it will certainly be transparent and transparent. It is therefore an independent foundation that can be a partner in the distribution of education, employment or other resources. Thank you very much for listening to these ideas, and I continue to ask that minority issues be supported in the same way as we have seen so far, and that the amendments requested be incorporated into the lives of minorities in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[12.10]]
u2015-12-02-56	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I now give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to pay tribute to the present ethnic advocates and to the national government leaders who are monitoring our work. It is a great pleasure for us good people, who, in our 2010 electoral programme, have made a clear contribution to ensuring the parliamentary representation of nationalities in Hungary, that you can be here now, even if you can only have limited rights, as advocates, but still have a serious impact on the legislation that is going on here, so that you can be more effective in representing the interests of your national communities, helping them to feel that Hungary is their home. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always seen national communities living within the borders of Hungary as a factor of state and is genuinely committed to individual and, I would like to stress, to ensure their collective rights farthest. We not only believe that Hungary must pursue an exemplary nationalism policy, because it is one of the most effective ways to promote foreign Hungarians, but also because we believe that national communities who have lived with us for centuries have basically contributed to the growth of our country, to making our country richer, more livable and lovable. And we definitely have to do an intervention here. It reflects serious irresponsibleness, the complete misunderstanding and ignorance of Hungarian and European history, when some left-wing politicians and media workers, and liberal opinion dictators unable to cope with the loss of their former influence, draw a parallel between the nationalities who had previously settled in Hungary, mostly from white, European and Christian cultures, as well as the Asian and African, predominantly black and Muslim immigrants threatening Hungary and Europe as a whole. In addition to the failure of Muslim masses to integrate in Western Europe, the integration of Hungarian gypsies against other ethnic communities has not been fully realised in 600 years. In the context of the migration crisis, I would also like to draw attention to an aspect which has not really been mentioned so far, namely that, in the event of large numbers of foreign immigrations to Hungary, domestic public sentiments can easily turn against the nationalities, including the Hungarian Roma in particular, and that cannot be in anyone's interest or purpose. Also in our 2010 electoral programme - I note, by the way, as a single party - we have dedicated a separate chapter to the ethnic communities living with us. In last year's 2014 programme, we were also the only people who dealt with indigenous nationalities, believing, among other things, that we will support them in all things individually and again, in exercising their collective rights. We help their native language education, their traditions, their culture, put national programmes of public media in a more favourable band, and we take decisive action against so much harming ethnobiznis. Therefore, I will also look at the government's activities in matters of nationality before us between February 2013 and February 2015 primarily in the light of our creeds and commitments in our previous electoral programme. I also think it is important to welcome the mere fact that Parliament can negotiate this report at all, and I would also like to express our indignation at this point, for, contrary to this report, the report of Gábor Bethlen, which manages the distribution of government resources to foreign Hungarians, was no longer allowed by Fidesz to the House, and, in fear of criticism, decided to restrict the public when he banished the hearing of the report to committee level. Ladies and gentlemen, The work done by the government in recent years undoubtedly has a number of positive elements to be strengthened in the future, just as there are some problematic parts. However, as a keynote speaker of the opposition's leadership for the government, although this may surprise many, I will not ignore the positives, as I mentioned them in 2013. However, with regard to my criticisms, it is already important to anticipate that, if the Hungarian indigenous communities living in the neighbouring country had the same legislation and case law, as well as similar support amounts or educational opportunities as the Hungarian nationalities with a much smaller number of them, there would certainly be fewer problems to talk about abroad. As I have already said, we consider the presence of ethnic advocates to be right and useful, it is true that, for diplomatic and national policy reasons, we stood in favour of the granting of preferential national mandates in some form at the time. In this way, we wanted to support the existence of a preferential parliamentary seat for Hungarians in Croatia or Slovenia, and to support the creation of a future, possibly Kiev preferential Hungarian mandate with the help of an independent Hungarian constituency in Transcarpathia. However, the provocative institution is undoubtedly more than what previous laws have allowed. The National Committee of Parliament has also become an important forum, the meetings of which I myself regularly monitor. As a party for a change of government, we believe that it is worth paying attention to what has been said there and encouraging others to do the same. We have found it difficult to find a better forum to better understand the everyday activities and problems of ethnic communities living with us. After the initial doubts, the body has become an integral part of the work in Parliament today. However, in addition to appreciating the work of the committee and the advocates, I am also obliged to express my regret that only 7 of the 13 spokespersons are present during the parliamentary debate on the minority communities they represent. At the same time, I think it is important to note that, based on the lessons learned over the past year and a half, it would also be worth considering the powers of the provocative institution and considering their enlargement, in particular in order to provide certain additional opportunities for opposition. The same problem raised by the spokespersons, we have also heard here that in each case they have to apply separately for the inclusion of each item on the agenda, i.e. the declaration of each proposal as a minority item on the agenda. This procedure can often prevent them from doing their job, since a proposal that originally did not affect them could become a point of nationality by means of a single amendment, but the advocates are no longer able to apply for the nationality of a particular item on the agenda. I believe that a solution to this problem could be found in some way. We therefore consider it a significant step forward, and the nationalities themselves believe that they can be present, make their voices heard in the Parliament, but the system is undoubtedly subject to changes. Although the report says that discussions between the government and the national minority committee are ongoing, we often find that there are discussions here or there, problems do not always find open ears. I think it would also be worth paying more attention to. Dear Parliament, As regards the discussion of the 2013 report, I have already pointed out that we consider the results of the 2011 census to be an undisputed positive result that more and more people are taking up their ethnic identity in Hungary. This means that more and more people are actively experiencing their dual or plural identity, which is definitely a positive picture of our country and plasticly contradicts the false accusations that we have in other cases. At the same time, we still do not understand that with the 13 Hungarian minorities, we do not know on what methodology, it is feared that even four non-indigenous minorities, the Russian, the Chinese, Vietnamese and the Arabs were chosen and surveyed rather at random. Meanwhile, we do not know how many people in Hungary claim to be bunyevac or Turkish, for example. Therefore, we proposed and continue to maintain our proposal at the time, Mr Secretary of State, so that everyone is free to declare their nationality, and that it should also be compulsory to aggregate it. Our proposal was then not accepted by the majority of governments, but I think that it would make Hungary's ethnic relations more realistic today. However, if these data had already been recorded, I would have had a good heart to read some of the lines about the Chinese living in Hungary, as well as Vietnamese, in the report. I also mentioned this lack when discussing the 2013 report, and it is a pity that this was missed again. As I would have read a little bit about why, if so many did not answer the question of nationality, the number of people who did not answer the question of nationality in 2001 rose by 1.5 times, i.e. from a little over half a million to less than 1.4 million people. Finally, I think that such a complex and long material should also have been about, for a few sentences, the characteristics of the border relocation, which has been strengthened in recent years, predominantly Romanian and Slovak, and what tasks this brings to the local administration, local governments, education and possibly our cultural institutions. [[12.20]] Dear House, Another undisputed positive of the national minority policy is the clear increase in national minority subsidies, as in the case of the 2016 proposals, the allocations have in some cases tripled. At the same time, we also see that it is worth paying more attention to the concrete use of these grants, as, for example, in the case of the Croatian Theatre in Pécs, the report reports a success of about HUF 500 million, which is also a success, but it has been left out of the report of how slow the construction and renovation of the theatre has been due to abuse. If anyone goes to Pécs on Anna Street, you can see that the building intended for the tea room is far away from seeing plays there in the near future. Our better local government representatives in Pécs are monitoring the events, and, of course, they will do everything in their power to ensure that in the future there are no abuses that have been discussed all over the city. We hope that the next company will do the work, and even if it's late, the theater will be ready. With regard to the allocation of national minority grants, I do not understand why the three representatives of the EMET are present in the Committee on Nationality Support for Human Resources, which has a right to propose to EMET. I think there's no need for government control on the board. In my opinion, the right to propose, especially because it is a proposal and not a right to decide, should be left to the delegates of the national authorities and the Committee on Nationality. Dear Parliament, In any case, the activities and programmes of the House of Tradition, mentioned by the report, are commendable. There's nothing I can say about that but keep it up. As a success, we better people see that our proposal for a wide range of legal extensions has been incorporated into the law on the rights of nationalities adopted in 2011. In the course of the negotiation of this law, Jobbik proposed a more favourable guarantee of certain rights of nationality, i.e. a reduction of the nationality threshold to 10 per cent, in the case of the provision of certain linguistic rights such as bilingual signposts and street signposts, and 20 per cent in the case of bilingual or multilingual record-keeping or the appointment of a public servant speaking the language of that nationality. We are pleased that these proposals have been taken up by the majority of governments, even if it required that our proposals for these extensions be rejected first and then resubmit almost literally as their own. We also experience as our own success that, in line with our 2010 programme, the government has at least partially turned the funding of national authorities into task-based funding, as we have hopefully made great progress in reducing the fake ethnic authorities involved in money activity, although the progress made on this issue is also incomprehensible to me by not writing a single line. This is only strange because the ethno-biznis raised first by Jobbik and brought to the walls of this House reflects extremely badly on the nationalities of Hungary and also on Hungary's foreign judgment. I can only hope that the current state of ethnobiznis, the phenomenon of trickery with nationality, will be addressed at least at some level during the 2016 microcensus. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The elimination of ethnobinis once and for all is in our mutual interest. This is why we proposed the status of the authentic instrument of the declarations of the candidates who started in the local elections to the national minority, as this would close the loophole which, without legal sanctions, allows certain well-organised, predominantly Gypsy groups to start in Ruthenian colours in one election, while in four years they should be Polish and then, as Croatians, only fake ethnic authorities that are not active. See in this connection the famous case of bacon we have discovered in Borsod County, where a large Gypsy family organized other municipalities every four years, even more at the same time. To date, we do not understand why our proposal was voted out at the time. The operation and activities of the joint minority committees were also published in 2013 and this year's reports. What we do not understand, however, is why these Joint Committees are not called together more often, since there is something to talk about both in Hungary and abroad. For example, here are the summer universities and study trips receiving Romanian students who have completely stopped in relation to Romania, or the case of the Ady Endre Líceum, still unfinished in Bucharest, even though a bilateral agreement was reached in 2008. According to this, the Hungarian State extended and renovated the building of the Romanian primary school and kindergarten in Battony, which was occupied by the visitors in September 2008 between solemn appearances and in the presence of the delegation of the two States. However, the Romanian party, at least in part, remained in debt to the construction of the Ady College in Bucharest in exchange, and the Romanian Anti-Corruption Office is already investigating this matter. In addition, more than HUF 1 billion was allocated under individual grants last year on the basis of the guidelines set out in the minutes of the meetings of these Joint Committees, so I do not understand why they do not meet on a more regular basis. Of course, it depends on the other side, I know that, but still. I would add that I would still consider it important that, in addition to the Hungarian party's performances, the commitment of the other party to make these data comparable in future should also appear in these reports. Dear Parliament, Let us move to even more problematic areas of ethnic policy. As in 2013, this report was very late this year, as it is now November 2015 and even December 2015, and the material before us was already ready in February 2015. I don't understand why we had to wait so long to submit. It is a bit like the report of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which manages subsidies for foreign Hungarians, which we always discuss late, so that at least some of its elements become obsolete. This is also the case with regard to the report, because there is plenty of writing about the various Roma catch-up programmes, while one of the hit themes of recent months has been how the National Roma Municipality has abused these and other funds, how it has conducted an invisible, wasteful and highly corruption-suspecting farming, into which Fidesz's honorary group, Flória Farkas, is slowly failing. Ceterum censeo, fellow Members, where is Flórian Farkas? Why isn't he the lead speaker for Fidesz? Why isn't he here now, just like he hasn't been in a single time in years when we've been discussing issues involving gypsies? Or why isn't József Varga here, the other member of the fidesz Gypsy? Why aren't they here? Returning to the ORÖ's affairs, full accountability is still waiting for you, and I can only hope that these matters will no longer be smeared by those involved on the basis of their high political links. For us, two things are clear about this case. On the one hand, under the leadership of Farkas, the Roma municipality has seriously discredited a number of programmes financed from EU funds which would in principle have been aimed at supporting the rise of the Roma population in Hungary. On the other hand, it has also become clear that the National Roma Municipality, the main interest protection organisation of Gypsies in Hungary, has to be thoroughly renewed in order to regain confidence. Dear House, At almost every meeting of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the problem which the national minority advocate has said is a major problem - public media, in particular MTVA, is a long-term issue. I don't see how they can put it in this material, that the programs on Duna TV that took place for 6 and 7 hours in the morning reach more people than they did in the early afternoon. Although the report is only looking at the situation until February, since then it has improved a little bit, we are still light years away from the good. Nationality broadcasts began at 7:20 p.m. on the Danube, and their repetition was at 8:00 p.m. on the Danube World. There is a legitimate question as to how anyone who was unable to view the broadcast at 7:20 was able to do so 40 minutes later. There has been a slight shift since then, as I said, but according to stakeholders, as we have heard here, a much more comprehensive change is needed. The report also addresses the posted editorials as a positive step forward. Unfortunately, there are only negative feedback from nationalities in the ethnic press. Spokespersons mainly complain about a reduction in the number of workers working in the production of ethnic programmes, but a number of comments are also regularly received about the status of the editorial board in Pécs, where, according to the stakeholders there, they are obliged to do their work in an unacceptable environment, as they say, in a pantry. There have also been a lot of complaints about the national minority thematic day organised on 10 May, which MTVA has neglected to consult with the national minority self-governments, and almost completely ignored the proposals it had received. It also made me smile to read the section on radio broadcasts. Again, there is a positive initiative, a good opportunity, but it does not work well enough. The broadcast of a program entitled "Home" looked like this, and the report does not criticize this for a moment: the show was broadcast from Sunday from 13 to 13.55, which was repeated on Tuesday night between 1 and 1.55, and the radio frequency of Kossuth was heard on Saturdays from 4am to 4:55pm, which was repeated on Sunday night between 23am and 24pm. [[12.30]] It's hard to decide which is worse, 1:00 a.m. or 4:00 a.m. radiation. I think that the public media should act as a matter of urgency both in terms of optimising the daily life of the programme grid, improving the conditions for the production of national programmes, not cutting them off, and in terms of the thematic days planned in the future. Furthermore, I think that if the Royal News Channel is already in place, it is absolutely necessary to adopt opinions and suggestions so that news about nationalities can be published in the news stream there, as our nationalities not only dance or cook all day, but also carry out much more colourful educational and cultural activities, while having problems, which I think it would be obliged to report to the Hungarian public media. Promises are all over the attic, we're waiting for action from the public media now. Dear Parliament, The case that the award of the Pro Cultura Minoritatum Hungarae award is currently decided solely by the Director-General of the National Institute of Culture and the absence of the National Board of Culture. It seems small, but I still think it's important to resolve this issue in your place. It is a very typical and often emerging problem, too, that in many cases in Hungary today the problem is not caused by the lack of existing legislation for the members of the various national communities living with us, but by the fact that they simply do not work in practice. For example, any Hungarian citizen today has the right to have his child or grandson registered in a nationality language if he is denied in office because of a lack of knowledge of the legislation or simply because of individual laziness. Most of them don't know, and they don't want to prove with their bluff that he has the right to do so. In my opinion, we should also pay attention to this, hear such complaints, and prevent this otherwise easy-to-solve problem from happening through further training and ministerial circulars. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps we can all agree that the survival of nationalities living in Hungary, as well as that of foreign Hungarians, is dependent on appropriate mother tongue education. Hours could be talked about the serious problems, bad organisation and inability of the failed Hungarian education policy. I'd just like to add a few thoughts to your ethnic side. I keep hearing about the tense relationship between ethnic schools and the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, because KLIK is not really willing to accept the extra tasks these institutions have. The textbooks are also delayed, but I am also concerned that if the TÁMOP applications for the provision of textbooks to small numbers of nationalities run out, then where will there be funding for this task. I hope that we have the government's solution to this situation, but it hides it well, often even to those involved. And if TÁMOP, while reading the report, I could not help noticing that in certain applications, mainly for catching up, half of the budget had not been completed. However, the report does not contain any further information in this case. And I'm particularly interested, Mr. Secretary, in the cause of failure. After all, this is EU support in the system, which is ultimately the money of all of us. Dear Parliament, I firmly believe and firmly believe that Hungary is richer by native nationalities living in our country, and it is therefore our duty to support them in the most optimal way possible, in close cooperation with their representatives, in the effective care of their mother tongue and culture. An exemplary national policy is essential not only for improving the situation of foreign Hungarians, but also for strengthening ourselves. Therefore, after Jobbik's election victory in 2018, as has been the case so far, Jobbik will seek to further increase the rights of ethnic communities living in our country, thus ensuring their long-term survival and prosperity. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács, István Apáti, Gergely Farkas and Dr. Lászlón Csúcs applaud.]]
u2015-12-02-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Savay. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the mayor of the political group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, I would like to emphasise in advance that the May Other Politics considers it important that the reports of the bodies responsible for reporting, reporting and informing before the Parliament be made as widely as possible at the plenary session of the Parliament. As a single party, LMP represented and consistently represented this position, contrary to the intention of housekeeping to hide the negotiation of the reports in the committees. It is a guarantee that the plenary session of the Parliament will be the forum where a report will be made, and not some time later than we saw this spring, for example, when the report of the Attorney General concerned the 2009-2013 years now, in 2015, but should be as otherwise required by the Fundamental Law or other laws. This is why, among other things, it is important for the report to be made here, within the walls of the hall, because the parliamentary review of nationalities is a good opportunity to evaluate the legislation affecting nationalities. What I have to say about the report focuses primarily on this regulatory issue. The 2011 CLXXIX on the Fundamental Law and the Rights of Nationalities. There are a number of particularly forward-looking elements of minority legislation rewritten by law. Despite this, there are still a number of regulatory shortcomings in this minority legislation. A positive example is the clarification of the legal and operational rules of the national authorities. The transition to direct elections has also been a step forward with the abolition of the electoral system, and the mandatory imposition of national elections is a welcome initiative regardless of the number of local and regional bodies. At the same time, many problems await remedy. The most spectacular step backwards in the area of minority rights protection was the abolition of the position of a well-functioning specialised parliamentary commissioner. The Fundamental Law has provided a specific mule solution to the Ombudsman's and his deputy status. According to this, the concept of Máté Szabó, the Parliamentary Commissioner for Civil Rights in office at the time of constitutionalisation, was best expressed by the. This broke up with the Parliamentary Commissioner of general competence and with the system of ombudsmans of the same status, only the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights makes an annual report to Parliament, and Members can only ask him a question. In other words, public liability was clearly transferred to the Ombudsman. It follows from this general logic that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is, in all respects, the alternates of his superior. That this is not the case is because, through the election of two thirds of Parliament, the Fundamental Law creates strong replacements with public and political legitimacy, which, in turn, creates a particularly controversial situation. The LMP has been representing this view for years that the Szakombudsman regime should not only have been maintained but should have been refined even further, so there should be more specific Commissioners. I note only in parentheses that a number of depositors could still be with their money, a few foreign exchange credit victims could still live in their homes if there was a consumer ombudsman in Hungary ten years ago, for example. The problems where citizens are the most exposed to the infringement, and such are minority rights, come to light much sooner and more effectively if there is not a megaombudsman institution that really has to deal with everything at the same time, but a separate Commissioner is fully armed with its powers and autonomy. Returning to nationalities, the LMP agrees with the criticisms that it has succeeded in contradiction with the fact that the name of national and ethnic minorities has been replaced by the new legislation with the terminology of nationality. This archaic, undefined concept is debatable, while the Roma and Ruthenian ethnic groups, which are considered ethnic minorities, have not been excluded from the recognized 13 minorities, but there are important differences between national and ethnic minorities, and nationality cannot be regarded as a set of two. [[12.40]] International terminology also uses the distinction for a reason, since nationality is mostly synonymous with the national minority. It should also be mentioned that in the new system, the problem of confessing identity and expressing belonging to the ethnic community continues to exist. There is no difference between the objective criteria that communities can judge and the act of confessing identity, so the sympathizers have been replaced by sympathizers, this causes serious damage to ethnic communities and continues to provide a breeding ground for ethnobiznis. We must also say that, according to the rules in force, full representation of nationality in Parliament is currently not possible. This needs to be worked on, because even though 20-25 thousand votes are sufficient for a full mandate, it is only possible for a minimum of 13 communities to produce this, and we have seen that unfortunately none of them succeeded in 2014. In addition, those who claim their ethnic identity to vote in this way may renounce some of the influence of Hungarian political power. This is a serious regulatory error. So those nationalities who wish to vote in this capacity deprive themselves of a vote, obviously their normal list votes, which could ultimately affect the power relations between the parties, the formation of a relationship between the government and the opposition. This unfair practice should definitely be reconsidered by 2018. The issue of the relationship between population counting and minority suffrage must also be addressed in the future. The new regulation is based on census data, according to which municipal elections should be set if, according to the latest census data, the number of persons belonging to that nationality in the settlement reaches 25 persons. The underlying logic is that a person should only be able to exercise his nationality suffrage if he was willing to confess his membership to a nationality during the census. This ensures that elections are held only in settlements where the number of persons belonging to a particular nationality really reaches a certain level. However, a number of objections can be raised against this solution. There is a particular flaw in the regulation that, during the census, the part about belonging to nationalities is correctly completed not mandatory. Moreover, on the last time, it was not yet possible to know that the legislator would link the election to census data, and the legislation therefore disproportionately limits the right of national self-determination. Furthermore, there is a problem that census data do not show an accurate picture of the nationality composition of a given settlement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to give you a tangible example of this statement. I'm warning you, I'm biased on account of my involvement. At the time of the census, 1214 people claimed to be banyevacs without such a outfit, so they had to put the word banyevac on the dots and then put the x in front of them. 1214 in this way, with a disadvantage, is a rather large number; especially after decades, in fact, for a century, generations of banyevacs have been talked about in every way. My fellow Members, and I will look most closely at the pro-government representatives, do you think that hundreds of years of presence is valuable to the Hungarian nation? The Bunyevács are here in Hungary and protected the country, fought for freedom, against oppression, built Hungarian culture, developed science, the first Hungarian novel was written or provided actors, not to mention scientists. Is it worth a single and unrepeatable community and its culture? Is it a value in a world of folk costumes, music, dance, language, memory, unwritten history, identity? Is all of this valuable and to be preserved? 'Cause if that's what you think, then, yeah, they have omissions and they have shame. Because year after year and month after month, we can say that every day this value is running out. As the elderly buffoons die, they take it with them that you do not support in any way. Unfortunately, the report does not mention this either, and we know that obviously the funding framework does not apply to those who are not officially recognised nationalities. In order to get to the numbers, according to the 2011 data of the KSH, it has been said several times, 645 thousand people have declared themselves to be a member of a recognized nationality. At the same time, the same HCSO 2011 report reports 125 thousand people who are members of an unofficially recognised nationality; this is close to a quarter. So this report describes 645,000 people as ignoring 125 thousand people. Finally, it should also be said that the only way for a nation to be united and satisfied is for each national and ethnic minority to be viewed as equal partners. The key to peaceful coexistence is that each factor of state can fully experience its own identity and its advocacy will not be lost in the tangled forest of legislation. Tolerance and the support of minorities must guide political decisions, and there must be no place for self-interest in this day-to-day, because society cannot see clearly because of the communication tricks that lay on it. Ensuring this is a shared responsibility for each political force and for each elected representative. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ethnic advocates.]]
u2015-12-02-60	Thank you very much, Congressman István Ikotity. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in this room. I don't see anyone applying for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, I will ask if there are any other speakers. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the mark of Miklós Soltesz:]] It indicates with a definite nod to the head that it is. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész in a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-12-02-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Women and Lords of Speech! Thank you very much for the comments, I will try, if not to address all of them and not all of them, but to answer a number of points. The thoughts of Bulgarian advocate Mr Varga Simeon and German advocate Mr Ritter Imre really affected the media and the media presence in some respects. I would like to make sure that you know that, on the one hand, we cannot interfere with their activities there. [[Zoltán Haughty: István Szávay: Please enter in the record!]] On the other hand, we have done a lot of work together in recent months that has led to progress in that area. There's really still to be changed. I do not want to talk about what Mr Szávay said, that the national thematic day did not go well. There's never been one in the past, and the other. [[László Teleki: Volt!]] that this show did have huge ratings and recognition. [[István Szávay: But there was otherwise! László Teleki: Of course it was!]] My next point about the media is that you're concerned. Despite the fact that your criticism has often featured a programme of MTVA, it would have been good to have had the criticism of the commercial media that, where appropriate, is negative, or that it is with pejorative statements and adjectives, which are in any event rebuttal, slanderous, and in any event undermine the brilliant and good cooperation that has developed in Hungary in ethnic politics, developed between nationalities and government. [[12.50]] I would consider it important that not only the criticism of the public television should be heard unilaterally, but also that of others; the nationalities concerned know what I mean. The other thing that I think is absolutely important, and thank you very much for the activities with which the Central European cooperation, I can say, will be carried out with your help. This is true of the Polish, the Ukrainian, it is true of a Bulgarian, it is true of a German nationality, it is true of any territory, it is true of the Greek nationality, it is true of the Slovenian and everything else. Believe me, this is at least as important in your life as it is in the interests of the foreign policy of the country, and it has been said in several speakers' comments that it is not all the same in Central Europe, and especially in the lives of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin, that your mother countries, your partners there, are also in relation to the Hungarian nationality that lives there. To Congressman László Teleki, I would like to say this. I know that it is very difficult to get used to a new thinking, not to thinking, but to express it, because the minority is still in the language, which I do not understand, as a nationality, why it had to be negative. I think it is a very good use of words, and it is not a group that is underestimated or left behind by minority fate, but it is citizens of this country who have been indigenously among us, so I still consider the term ethnicity important. It was interesting to have your voice in terms of the support system, because there were times when you said you were positive and happy that there was a big shift, and you criticized the distributions from the other side. But we are not participating in the distributions ourselves, but we are working together with the nationalities to resolve the subsidies and the distributions that concern the territorial, national authorities for their own activities or the maintenance of the institution. So, let's say, the criticism you've given me, I think it's only possible for us to take it seriously that there have been changes in the last year that we've heard from nationalities or nationalities, and we've made this change, and we'll have it in the 2016 budget. But let's just say it's not worth arguing that if we look at the fact that in 2010, when we took over government and next year's 2016 budget, if we compare it, it's more than doubled, I'd say it's two and a half times more national support at all levels. This is a huge number, but it is the success of this government and the Fidesz and KDNP governing parties, the success of its economic policy and ethnicity policy, which is absolutely natural that we must use and serve this success in order to preserve nationalities. I don't want any arguments about wasting money and other things that now - and not thinking of you - how many of you are legally condemned by a court and are in different situations of life. So if you see something that's wrong, obviously the court and the prosecution will do the tasks that need to be done, but to accuse people or people for whom no final judgment has yet been made, I think it's gender-free, and it can't be done. Moreover, it is worth looking at the fact that you, who are talking about the situation of Lungo Drom, I would like to pay attention to the fact that Lungo Drom received 72 percent from Roma voters in the minority municipal elections within the Roma elections. So it's such a big deal that I wouldn't underestimate the voting rate, and I wouldn't underestimate their work. I consider the proposals for changes in education, positive changes and negative changes to be completely understandable and justified. So it is absolutely true that young children, gypsy children, whose lives start from a much more difficult situation than, let us say, the life situation of the majority society, really change can be made by education. And that is why we have taken the decisions that relate, on the one hand, to the obligation to attend school, to the obligation to attend three years of kindergarten and much more. Of course, it is very difficult to implement and implement this at a time when, so to speak, legal organizations attack a school maintained by Greek Catholics, for example, where there was a brilliant education, where the quality was brilliant, where not only the bishop and not only the teachers and church leaders there did everything for the Roma families, mothers, fathers and their children there, so that they could stand out so that they could break out of that life situation and prosecute this school just because there was a so-called segregation, this is a huge problem. I think we need to have this debate in the future, because you know that there are times when this is a better solution, there are times when it is a better solution, but what you can't do is that those who try to help these communities with love, integrity and the greatest knowledge will destroy them in court, and after a while they will say thank you very much, solve their own situation and they won't do anything. Therefore, I thank the Member for his positive and negative signals. Thank you for your comments on public employment, catering and other issues. Obviously, there are mistakes, and you know that public employment is a first step, and thank God, I personally know a gypsy-born person who started in public employment, and thank God, today, let's say, in a construction company or in other businesses, is already present in the labour market, and I think that this is the future, which, of course, was there and worked for the gypsy people, and in the future, obviously this will be an important task for Hungarian society. To my fellow Member, István Szávay, I can only say that his ambitious plans will be judged by the voters in 2018. I could also say that, although this debate may now have an unworthy sentence, it is still dreaming of a hungry pig with a mask. But I'm sorry if you've started by saying that the man who, by the way, is a representative of Jobbik in Hajdú-Bihar County, who has now been convicted, has kicked into that community, threatened the community who... - the 644 thousand of our fellow citizens who claim to be nationalists is 315,000 who claim to be ruins, and then says after one of the Prime Minister's statements, [[István Szávay: Where does that come from?]] which was said to look at Gypsy as Europe's hidden resources and not as a problem. [[István Szávay: Respond to what I said!]] , and then a local government representative from Hajdú-Bihar county, supported by Jobbik, would be able to deport them to unfold. Honourable Congressman, You went up on that pulpit. [[István Szávay: Answer what I said!]] you have gone up to that pulpit and you have not apologized for all 13 ethnic issues concerning 13 nationalities. [[István Szávay: Should I apologize? Flórian Farkas apologize.]] He didn't start with his sentences and his thinking that he couldn't go on like this. And do you want to govern in 2018 when you speak hatefully of our fellow humans? This is not going to work, honourable Member, just the double speech you are saying. [[István Szávay: There is no double speech!]] completely destroyed the otherwise positive or improved thoughts that he had said in the next 25 minutes. Thank you very much for your speech. [[István Szávay: What was that?]] Dear Parliament, Even István Ikotity's speech, let me give you two thoughts. One of the ideas is that the best option is to have 13 of us here as MEPs. Compared to this, any system of ombudsmanship that has been so far has not strengthened nationalities to the extent that 13 nationalities are now here in Parliament as advocates. I'm telling you all this, and I'm telling the LMP, because I'm always the advocate of rights, and I don't know what kind of ideas you have and how you're holding on to, but overall, if you're here, as a spokesperson, you've achieved enormous results over the last few months and years, both in the preparation of laws and in changing the budget, and that's a huge achievement. [[13.00]] There is no system of ombudsman institutions that would help. So I think that we have found the best solution in the past, and as much as the Bunyevac minority, nationality, ethnic group, are close to their culture, respect and love them, I know many of them, I cannot argue with the decision of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or with some of their colleagues. It is very difficult, because with this power many people could come up with, but it is a different question, and you are absolutely right about that, Member, that the preservation of their culture is the responsibility and duty of all of us, and indeed of the support systems that we maintain in some respects within the national minority support systems, whether civil society organisations or, I add, we must pay attention to their support. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for their appearance and comments. The fact that there were so many of us, everyone has a job, it is not certain that everyone with their presence now proves that we are sorry who are present, obviously proves that this topic is important, but those who are not here are also performing a certain important task, so it doesn't matter who is now, what number of people are present, much more important is the common work that we have done here in Hungary, and what we have done with many of them in the relations of the mother countries, which is at least as big a message as the fact that 13 people here are assisting the work of the National Assembly as a minority advocate. Thank you so much for letting me speak. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-02-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The author indicates that he does not wish to add anything. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CLXXVII Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code follows. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The T/7821 submitted by Mr Balázs Győrffy Fideszes Member Presentation No 1 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have made a promise to the Hungarian economy that we will solve the problem that has escalated in the Hungarian countryside today, and it is a serious problem for many people that there is a 580 forints golden crown rent on one side of the road, while on the other side of the road there is a market, if any, multiple, five to six times. We believe that this is an unworthy situation, which we have already proposed to solve, and we would have liked it to have become legally binding with the support of Parliament, but we must also see that the opposition was not a partner in this. Another solution had to be sought, that is what I promised, and I stand here, keeping my promise, my promise to the Hungarian farmers: there is another amendment before Parliament, which solves this problem, with which a lot of people have contacted us, and that calls for a solution. The amendment can be divided into two parts. One contains amendments to the Civil Code and the second intends to amend the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. The amendment to the Civil Code clarifies the definition of the contract transfer as to the form in which the contract is to be interpreted in the event of a sale. According to the amendment submitted by me, if there is a new owner of a property, the lease agreement between the old owner and the tenant will be terminated and a new contract between the new owner and the tenant will automatically be concluded. And how we try to settle the issue of land leases in the second stage, and I would like to address it very briefly. In the case of contracts with a duration of at least 10 years, it is important to emphasise that, after 5 years, both for the tenant and the owner, the rent can be adjusted, so that the rent can be increased and reduced. In the event that, say, one party considers the rent to be non-market, it has nothing to do but to contact a judicial expert, the judicial expert informs him of the average rent on the spot, and if this shows a difference of more than 20 per cent from the rent included in the current contract and paid, it is possible to initiate any of the parties concerned to make such a change to the contract. This letter of initiative must, of course, be accompanied by the opinion of the judicial expert, and then the other party has the opportunity to decide whether (a) to accept this, (b) to withdraw from the contract, (c) to appeal to the court and to ask the court to establish the market rent. If this market rent, as established by the court, differs by more than 20 percent from the rent currently paid, then there are two options: either the party concerned accepts it or (b) withdraws from the contract as a solution. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Dear Parliament, Since this topic has already been here in the plenary session of Parliament in the last month, I would not wish to give a more detailed account, since we have actually had the general debate on another legislation; in order to have the same ideas in the minutes twice, I do not wish to do so, so, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the floor, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-02-64	Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-02-65	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In short, the Parliament will discuss the land lease fee for the second time, and remember that in the amendment tabled earlier by Mr Balázs Győrffy, he wanted to settle it by creating a rule requiring a two-thirds rule, but because of the lack of cooperation of opposition representatives, this was not accepted then, and there is now another proposal before Parliament, which is now being debated by Parliament. I would like to point out first that the Government is in favour of the amendment. Dear Parliament, This is an old demand for the land to be owned by the man who cultivates it, and I think it is quite clear to everyone that the government's economic and social philosophy is based on property, and property frees us, property strengthens civic thinking, but property also strengthens civic consciousness. The current sale of state-owned land actually highlighted and required the resolution of the problems accumulated over more than a decade, of which one of the most important ones is the issue of rental fees. At the time of the sale of state-owned land, it became apparent that there were indeed serious differences between rents. Please allow me to shed some light on this issue from another point of view, partly so as to shed some light on this story as the Secretary of State, partly responsible for EU support. Before joining the European Union, land lease fees were less specific to the policy of support in the European Union, since we were not part of it. [[13.10]] At the same time, there is a continuous trend that, as the EU's direct subsidies for Hungary change year after year and have increased primarily in recent years, it has become increasingly trending that market-based rental contracts have started to depend on aid policy and direct subsidies to land, so in this respect, our accession to the European Union has created a whole new situation on land lease. The general market sentiment links rental rates to so-called land-based subsidies, not inflation, but increasingly. At the same time, we know and see that EU aid policy does not change every 20 years, but at least every 7 years, and even more often, since mid-term evaluations allow it to change even more frequently. It is clear that we are currently seeing the system of support policy by 2020, but what direct support system will be after 2020, in which direction the common agricultural policy will be taken by EU decision-makers, we do not yet see it. We therefore believe that a proposal that would settle market rents in this way is also fair, because it takes into account the interests of both parties, whether the land owner is a landlord or the land user as a landlord, and the interests of both parties. As I have already mentioned, there is a clear correlation between the rent rate and the land-related aid. I ask what if, where appropriate, the area payment would be reduced after 2020. You don't know, I'm going to stress it again, no one yet, but there's a possibility in the air that direct subsidies may even be reduced. In this case, precisely these provisions will protect the tenant by regulating not only the mechanism for increasing rent charges but also the mechanism for possible reductions. It is therefore technically justified to establish such a system and such a mechanism, which establishes a regulated framework for dealing with changes in the parties' long-term contractual relations and taking into account the mutual interests of the parties. Dear Parliament, Allow some thoughts to respond in other respects. It is clear that the government is committed to developing transparent and unjustified competitive advantages in the agricultural economy as well. And indeed, certain mood statements in the press see the settlement of the rental fee issue as a direct attack and, in particular, openly threaten individual government decision-makers and executives. I would like to make it clear that the government wants to achieve that small and medium-sized economies, family farms, which are at the heart of economic policy, regardless of whether they are individual enterprises or even social enterprises, will have access in the coming years to an opportunity to adapt rental fees to market levels; no more, no less, just to settle them in market conditions. To do this, we believe that Mr Balázs Győrffy's proposal is appropriate and appropriate, which is why we support it. The fact is that a layer of farmers, which rents and rents public land to this day and pays a fraction of the rent on the market, we believe that this cannot be maintained and that the change should not be interpreted as a future loss but as a profit from the past. As a profit and an advantage to those who have already had to rent land on a market basis. Dear Parliament, I know it is difficult to talk about land issues without feeling, but I would ask that the debate be discussed on the basis of the facts and by considering it. I would like to ask everyone and to warn them that the harmful side effects of some statements that are intended to sound or seem to attract attention can be unpredictable, and I am thinking not only of those who are interested in or interested in exciting the debate, but also of those who would agree by putting the debate at a standstill. So the government supports the amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-66	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-02-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The agricultural and forestry economy, the amendment of the legislation on the circulation of land, could, in principle, create a common mood among Members of Parliament, since we all have the intention that what we have now is wrong. As Albert Wass said, unity is also unity if we all want one, and unity is unity if we all want the same one in a different way. On this important issue, we find today that all Members and all factions, apart from the ruling party, do not want the same one. Our fellow Members in the opposition benches are all protesting change, but at the same time they are all saying that what is now is not good. We are talking about eliminating the inequality of the land lease. We have argued on several occasions about it, everyone has expressed their views on several occasions, and yet in the group of opposition representatives they say that there has been little debate, of course, it is being formulated during the debates and debates. There is no one other than the ruling party to make the change in what is bad about what is bad. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the debate on the Committee on Agriculture, and perhaps it was our proud fellow Member who came forward with the number of farmers in the Committee on Agriculture. We have already closed this debate almost to the fact that in the Committee on Agriculture, who is the bigger peasant, but the point was that we have a lot of management experience. My fellow Members, who have experience in farming, know that there are many more uncertainties in agriculture and much less, which is certain. The weather is uncertain, there is uncertainty about who can manage labour costs in different parts of the country, who is burdened with labour and ancillary costs. Regional and climatic conditions are uncertain at different parts of the country. There's one thing I know for sure: rent. The rent is what is certain and one more thing is certain: that we are all producing for the same market. Ladies and gentlemen, We can produce grain, wheat, corn, sunflowers, gardening culture, produce the same market. And if this product is somewhere more expensive than a forint, then that producer is out of the market. Therefore, uncertain factors are the most difficult for producers. At present, rent is just as uncertain as it is because what we can change and we do not want the intention of opposition representatives is the rent. When farmers start a marketing year, they don't know what the weather will be like yet. They don't know what the market situation will be like, they don't know what competition to expect. But they know one thing in advance: what's the rent? And this unfair system, which is currently in place, leaves hundreds of thousands and millions in the pockets of farmers, some farmers, regardless of the hardships of the weather. In many cases, farmers get up, lie in prayer and worry about how much rain falls, how the market conditions will be, but some people don't care what the market conditions are, because they have no advantage over all others, with no advantage in terms of rent and no advantage in terms of shell market support in their pockets. That's what this system wants to eliminate. Ladies and gentlemen, All options, all the arguments that have been formulated in Parliament or in committee meetings, have been addressed in this legislative amendment proposal. I mean, they said why we're just talking about a raise. The bill allows us to talk about the reduction, because there may be circumstances, market disturbances where rent cannot be managed, and indeed there is a need to talk about the reduction. We are talking about a joint agreement between the parties. [[13.20]] We would like the communist dictatorship's method of law - a village, a song, to be accepted - to no longer be so. The parties shall determine by mutual agreement what is good for them. If anyone is disturbed by this, then the current amendment of the law already includes this, stating that the modification of rents is done without any chamber influence. The amendment states that the amendment must be based on a judicial expert opinion. Court defense is secure. My fellow Members, what is being said here is a variety of arguments that only in order to get an unfair advantage on someone, just in order to terminate a contract, it is not true, because it requires a judicial expert opinion and judicial protection for everyone. Today, everyone who participates in the economy can also experience the fact that tenants' rights are disproportionately stronger in many cases. Ladies and gentlemen, Nowhere in the economy is the tenant's rights unfairly and disproportionately stronger than the owner's rights. Why can't this be allowed to be decided by the market and decided by mutual agreement between the parties? My fellow Members, what you represent primarily in the benches of the MSZP, as there is not even the intention of agreement, is the communist dictatorship when we have declared that a village, a song; it was, it is and it will be. There is a lack of government responsibility in the opposition's benches. There is only one common intention to lead opposition representatives, political gain, and that is that. The responsibility of government is not on their shoulders. Former State Secretary Zoltán Gőgös from the benches of the MSZP will state his arguments [[How do you know what I'm going to say? Sallai R. Benedict: They know everything!]] From the Agriculture Committee meeting, we know and know that your arguments are a village, a song, i.e. protecting the conco, as the congressman did. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What kind of concoction? I don't have anything!]] Do you think it was a fair system when István Lajtos received 2500 hectares for one third of the market price in Nágyiván? He received 2500 hectares, received state aid of HUF 100 million per day, received a total of HUF 370 million of state aid, received extra profits, received these areas for one third of the market price. [[Hungarian Zoltán: I just want a coffee! Sallai R. Benedict: Me too!]] Do you think that was fair to all other farmers? He was able to set up a machine park, a competitive machine park that no one else could. It obtained a market advantage called implied state aid. Ladies and gentlemen, in the benches of the MSZP in particular, it was true in their time, Mariano Kft. - an Italian-owned company. - for a fraction of the market price, and there was a significant part where he received free state land and also obtained state aid of HUF 800 million. Forint 800 million state aid by either paying a small rent or not paying any rent. How can farmers in their surroundings look them in the eye? Why did someone get an advantage that all the others didn't? Why are they opposed when we want to eliminate this bad, irregular system? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haughty, Mr President, knowing the opinions expressed in committee meetings and Parliament in general, when all the ammunition is gone, and relying on the fact that they have given work to so many people, Member, the land must be cultivated, the tractor will have to sit in, the tractor will still have to be driven, the tractor will still have to be driven by workers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is the cow milked?]] In livestock - yes, a cow must also be milked [[Zoltán Grimlock: If there is.]] - for which at present we are talking about much more livestock than before, the cow must be milked and the pig must be fed. [[Zoltán Grumpy: You don't want the cattle for fattening, you know that, don't you? But try it.]] But, my fellow Member, let us accept one thing on the basis of the previous examples. When you talk about how many people you've given jobs to, the state has given you work out of the unrealistic state support we've been talking about. When Nagyván Döbördi received HUF 1 million a day, when the Italian company received state aid of HUF 800 million without having to pay a rent or pay a small rent, they did not give people jobs, but the state did. The State has provided work on State aid and will continue to provide it. Somewhere in the MSZP's position, it may still be acceptable or understandable that they are protecting the cone. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, protecting the cone [[Zoltán Grimlock: Explain the law, don't worry about us, okay?!]] Maybe that's understandable. But what Jobbik says is much less understandable, because Jobbik says that what is is wrong, but we say that it is not. My fellow Members, this is as ambiguous as it is when it comes to the use of violence in relation to immigration, but it is still said that Islam is the country's savior. My fellow Members, this is your chance. If you think this system is wrong, you don't have to push no, you have to change. This is your chance. After all, my fellow Members, Jobbik's opinion, his vote, which is not, proves what is heard from Jobbik's ranks, that one thing hurts that this auction, this sale of land, or this amendment of law, will not be carried out by you. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] It's coming out of your benches that they'd do exactly the same thing if, in our opinion, you didn't give it to me, God, you'd be on the government. They're doing exactly the same thing, because they admit that the system is wrong, but they're voting no. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Member Robert Sallai Benedek, once you smile so well, please allow me to deliver to you a message from a fellow host who has asked for it. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Name too!]] who asked me to tell Congressman Róbert Benedek of Sallai not to talk to farmers, because it is a shame. Farmers have separated from you regardless of political affiliation, Congressman. And after that, they're more isolated. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Really? Zoltán Grimlock: Who said the Potter? Hungarian Zoltán: Ripper?]] Congressman, above all, that's why [[Sallai R. Benedict: Butcher? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause you're running a two-faced policy. He set up a family business in order to steal agriculture. At the same time, he is a beneficiary of the system that we have now. Congressman, farmers tell you not to speak on behalf of farmers, because farmers know that manure is not covered in the door of one farmer. Farmers know that manure is placed in the ground, not on asphalt. Congressman, there are farmers who don't have different degrees, but they do know one thing: they don't set an example in front of their children that if the teacher doesn't give us a bad grade, we'll go to his door by morning and leave a big pile. Congressman, you are unworthy of Parliament, you are a disgrace to farmers what you represent. Ladies and gentlemen, When it is said that this decision is anti-farmer, we would like first of all to object because farmers want one thing: to produce the same chance. They want everyone to start with the same rent, an equal rent at the market price in the area, enjoy equal weather conditions, equally compete and produce on the market on the same terms. What's now is unfair. Ladies and gentlemen, If you think this system is wrong, then I ask you to vote for this change. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you - sensitive debate - to avoid personalisation as much as possible, because it would be more important to talk about the law. I now give the floor to Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-12-02-69	Thank you for the floor. One thing is certain: from this speech before me, everyone understood what was in this law - I don't think anyone could understand a word, by the way. I will try to explain it to you, because there is very much that has not been mentioned here either with what the rapporteur or the secretary of state has to say. First of all, let me get this straight - let me ask you something. Is the current HUF 1250 currently in force, which is currently in competition - there are still tenders - public land lease fee market price? I don't think so. About half of that. Everyone here is scorning the different rents, only forgetting that I can now get at least 600 applications - because there are still - where the state rents its land at a price of 1250 forints per golden crown, which is roughly half of the market rent. [[13.30]] So from now on, the whole story is bloody, but we can continue, indeed, the 580 HUF is not enough. It's just that this bill isn't about that. It may be possible to lift this, but that is not the goal here. The goal here is that simply those capacities - and in this not only the dirty twelve created by Fidesz, by the way, will suffer this problem, but everyone. Because my fellow Member has also taken the easy way through the fact that we did not make those twelve companies with this rent and even sued the rent, but we failed the Supreme Court; and the 50-year lease, when, by the way, Hungary has always had a 20-year lease in general. So this is the first problem that we should also see if anyone who currently pays a rent of HUF 1250 is paying a market fee or what happens if we say, for example, as a model economy, which is also - what we hear about who will be -580 forints; what will happen there, for example. 'Cause then let's get justice, I say. I think it is impossible to support a bill that supports nappers rather than farmers. If this bill had been submitted not by the president of the National Chamber of Agriculture, but by the president of the Chamber of Laws, I would understand. At present, lawyers have the largest land ownership in Hungary and are renting it to farmers against whom this proposal applies. Because the five-year increase will not only affect farmers in public lands - or the reduction, because indeed, this is part of it, but we will see if there will be an example - but everyone, because obviously everyone will get blood from it and say that all my contracts are older than five years old, I will bring an expert, it will go away, something will be done in court, and then I will break the contract. However, I would like to know that the level of rent that the court may set, which I do not know how it will be established in cases where there is a very large standard deviation of what the market rent will come from... - what do we mean by market rent? A hundred thousand forints? That would be a freak, I'm just saying. That's where it's said from the mouth of government figures that's the goal. When a government actor who is involved in agriculture says something on his mouth that he considers the rent per hundred thousand forints as a target, it is an enemy of Hungarian agriculture. There is no 100,000 HUF rental in the system, except for the 40 golden crown irrigable lands. Because it can't be produced, especially not on Transdanubia, in our region, Balázs, that's the rent, and I hear about it here. [[On the signal of Balázs Győrffy:]] You didn't say that, I'm being fair, you didn't say that, but here it's been said several times that that's the goal. And I think the solution that I've put forward is one: let's sort it out so there's a ceiling. I wrote a ceiling earlier, by the way, for rents themselves, so that we could set territorially valid rents and maximum rates - we would be partners in this, by the way, in France - so that the vulnerable situation of the producer could not be exploited. Because with this law, we are clearly creating a vulnerable situation, because not only will this story reach the targeted circle, but it will reach everyone, because I do not believe in an owner who otherwise will not use it to take advantage of this opportunity and try to raise a fee. So this should be settled. I had several proposals, one of which was earlier in 2010, which was not accepted to consider 80% of EU funding as a rent ceiling. That was one of my suggestions. The other - precisely because of the abuse, as many producers and managers also take advantage of the possibility of not having a ceiling and tax-free income - is to tax the rent above 80% of the EU's aid. This has to be done because tax-free money can be taken out without having to pay a dividend tax. I think there's no question that this should be settled. This is certainly an unpopular proposal, but not for small farmers and small owners, because small owners do not receive this rent, I would like to emphasise. There is very, very little place in one or two counties with very, very high quality land that may be subject to a tax on some small landowners of 5-10 hectares, but it should be taxed only after the difference, so that would be a terrible tax burden, I think it is not acceptable. The other is that it would be a completely legal solution and it would not be unconstitutional, what I did in another proposal, and I am not saying that the market fee, because I think I cannot be determined, but I will be a partner; I will be able to come up with a bill on what the tax threshold should be. I suggested that 580 forints, which is typical of a group of companies - because, by the way, this rent was raised everywhere either by mutual agreement or by treaty amendment - if that's it now, we will raise the difference to whom that is it; it will pay the tax. I'm a partner in making it not 1250, but higher, but let's talk about this. This bill will come before us. This does not help the napper, who buys land only so that he can pay the price of the increased rent, but helps the state, because it works for the State even if the user does not change, because his tax base will still be the difference that we determine. To add, it is not lawful for us to use the state rent that I believe is currently below the market price. It's a matter of trial. By the way, I don't think this law will stand the test of constitutionality. The transfer of contracts was introduced by the Civil Code precisely to provide legal certainty in relation to the contracts previously concluded. And if someone goes into this with this legal certainty gone away, I think it's the constitutional breach. This is for sure going to the Constitutional Court, which is what we are proposing to the head of state if it is adopted in this form, so that he attacks the Constitutional Court immediately. If not, then obviously we need to create the necessary signature, and we need to do so, because I think it causes a complete legal uncertainty. What has not been said here, and I would ask the Secretary of State to answer that, if he is already the new treaty and there is a new owner of the land, because they buy land from these circles, the new owner - if the old company has more areas than 1,800 hectares, say, if it is a keeper - can enter into a new contract with him. I don't think so, but you don't tell me that. So they're not saying they want to raise rent, they're saying they want to dismember or kick company because it's the right thing to do. When we talk about this, I really do bring out workers. I am very sorry that Fidesz considers the workers currently employed in Hungarian agriculture as slaves and says that this slavery must be abolished. I'm asking you, is the salary over HUF 200,000 a month better or is it the HUF 52,000 community service? Because there will be no alternative, because I will be very curious that if this process that was planned a few years ago - only then the friend was still a friend, now he is an enemy - and there will be a family economic model of 10,000 players, 500 hectares in Hungary, because that will be it, the little ones will also blend in, because they won't be able to stand the race, because why would they be, because the owners are going away beautifully, because they are very old and settle themselves for long years, and they stay there, say, 100,000 employees who won't have any opportunity. Is this model normal for 10,000 families, which is 40,000 people, or is it an agriculture that employs or supplies 300,000 people? Because with a normal integration and a normal programme, at least 300,000 people with normal income could be brought into this system. By the way, what Minister Lazarus said about Mezőhegyes, for example, is a contradiction in itself. There about 80 players get the 8 000 hectares, as there are 100 hectares averages in general, it may be 100 and 80 hectares, it doesn't matter. That means that a hundred families will get a living from the estate that currently employs 400 permanent workers, and 1000 seasonal workers, and pays 85 million taxes to the settlement, and pays about 2 billion in public to the country. I don't think these things are thought through. It is not possible to consider the impact of such a measure. I find it very, very difficult to understand why this is necessary. Why did you have to go through this when it is obvious that the economic impact of this measure, for example, will be much worse than what was in that region before? Because if that would improve the situation in the region, then I think it makes sense to talk about it and it makes sense to think about it. But the contradiction I referred to is that the Minister says that there will be a 2,000-acre sample farm that will take over 400 people and continue to employ them. If that is true, if the government has a model that can make a living for a person every 5 ha, wouldn't it be better to create 80,000 jobs on the 400,000 hectares of public land than to sell it? [[13.40]] If such a model exists. If he doesn't exist, then he shouldn't be lying. By the way, I think that a normally organised state estate system with proper regulation and incentive can generate about 10-15 ha of employment, with decent income and fair endurance. I'm not saying the five acres that we used to have, that there was a really well-paid man per 5 hectares, because in the city after the meat factory, which, unfortunately, is going to be ruined again because of the unfortunate and stupid withdrawals that were worth the meat processing industry, we were the second-best-paying company. So far, it is not true that we had to make a living with all kinds of state aid, but that was simply motivated by the management of the time, not the theft that Lazarus was talking about, because then I would have 12 houses, not him, in Hungarian, the point is that that company was able to provide a living for one person per 5 ha at the time. But there was nothing more tractor than there is now, in the same area, there was nothing more specifically engaged in agricultural activities, but there was an incentive system that brought out everything that could and should go in this direction. And if I were to see this as an attempt to encourage these businesses in the sense that they are really in a positive or beneficial position, whether by agreement or by some normal law, not like this, they would be predestined to give a living to as many people as possible, because that is the biggest problem in the region, then obviously we could be partners in this, but that is not the case here. This is about the fact that modern capacities built from terrible European Union resources, which can compete with anyone in the world, will now become waste because there will be no adequate production base behind them. For example, you can't keep 5,000 cattle in Pope's environment on 1800 hectares, Mr. Secretary of State. I can't because it's impossible. Nonsense! Now you have to say that you don't have to hold 5,000 cattle, say, at Agro produkt Zrt. I would add that we have been political opponents since the world began, under the leadership of that company, but I still say that we have a responsibility to the 500 people there, against the 500 families, against the Börzsöni. [[Towards the Fidesz Group:]] fellow Members, as opposed to the community to which normal work is being given, to the villages that have made a living from it to this day, only so that some friends can tear that area apart. Because that's what this is about. There's going to be an incentive system worth buying these lands from the state. I would like to stress that I cannot imagine a solution that would help the public lands to be sold - no matter what the solution is. I do not believe that public areas in private hands can provide more people with a living than if they have proper public regulation. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right!]] So I think that if there's anything to agree on, it's this crazy bidding system where you bid on yourself, that the poor peasant who has the right to buy the land doesn't even have a chance to buy it, to stop it right now! They can't make a contract because they don't. Lawyers say you can't draw up a contract like that, Mr. Secretary of State. It's a failed, idiotic system. It's not gonna happen. It's just such a shame. The value of this wealth, if we use it for what we need, is not 300 billion, but 3000 billion, at least. It's worth it! It's not the price, it's the value! If this is misplaced, this country will pay a very, very heavy price, and I am not sorry to say that you will have to answer for this at some point. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-02-70	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-12-02-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! We heard a lot of interesting arguments, but they weren't new. I regret that my colleague Pócs is no longer here, because I will answer him. We have indeed already held this debate at the committee meeting, and it is not a new piece of legislation, even if it is formal, because we have already carried out these debates under almost identical legislation. The fact that the rent on one side of the road is not as much as on the other side of the road, and this creates a competitive disadvantage, of course we are experiencing it, and I do not consider it to be an appropriate condition, but I ask why this came to mind on the government side now. So, interestingly, in 2010, no one was disturbed by the market-distorting effect of the system that was built, while, as Secretary of State József Ángyán, here in his first speech, he began in outrage - quite rightly - on what ridiculous rentals the state land was given in socialist eras. Five years have passed since then, and nothing has happened, until you started a gang war, and I'm not the only one saying that your own minister calls this bill lex simicka, so you're not even trying to deny that virtually nothing else has started the privatisation of state lands with you but a fight with your former friend. What this draft, which is legally and legally before us, means and what concerns we have about it, I will not be the one to say it, but my expert colleague László Lukács, as a lawyer, will explain this, because it is also an insane thing that this could come before us in this form. And we are already indicating what we have done at the committee meeting that the opposition will turn to the Constitutional Court in this case as well. [[Intervention from Fidesz: You have already achieved this in the EU!]] Since we are sure that this will not stand for constitutionality, or at least we are confident that this will not happen in a rule of law. We've done this before in connection with ground-privatisation, which is when we got cold and warm from the government side, so I'm forced to respond to them, because we still have these accusations today. If Fidesz makes a law called the Land Traffic Act that allows foreigners to buy land, then makes a decree, a decision that goes against it, and otherwise, the Constitutional Court will obviously see that because there are competent people sitting there, don't blame it on the opposition. So I think that if it is really important for you that the Hungarian agricultural land, especially the state land, does not fall into the hands of foreigners, then the privatisation must be stopped, and there is no problem, because no one can force the Hungarian state to market its land against its will, even at the cost of getting it to foreigners. So please, really stop lying to me. Of course, in one word we did not write in our Constitutional Court's submission that we had a problem with that, but it is clear that Ab will spot this and spot it. [[Intruders from Fidesz: Or if not, they were wrong!]] And speaking of competitive neutrality, I wouldn't think it, and the Jobbik wouldn't think it was evil to violate it, let's say, with state lands. So I do not think that it is a problem if the Hungarian State, even at the cost of violation of competition neutrality, is helping with its own land a land policy that is otherwise of the common good, resulting in the renewal of the Hungarian countryside and the increase in the preservation capacity of the countryside. If we use the state land for this and don't fatten up former friends and future new friends, then otherwise, I don't mind that we're insulting competition neutrality. I go further: you have admitted this, and you have also written down that you are not renting these state land on a market basis, by the way, even today. Zoltán Gőgös has already mentioned before me that the rent per gold crown of HUF 1250 is far away, at least half of it is on the market, so that the state lands are issued in a system without competition neutrality, and we have not even criticised it. So I think, too, that if the goal is to help family farmers living on the ground, then it's okay for the state to help them with it. It is difficult to separate this draft legislation from privatisation. By the way, I also noticed in your argument that when it is so convenient, they are trying to set up the draft before us as if it had nothing to do with public land privatisation, and if they are trying to strengthen the other side and it is uncomfortable, then they are quite openly saying that the only reason that this problem has come up now is because, for the second time, it is in various forms before the House, because it would facilitate the privatisation of state land. I do not deny that, behind Jobbik's attempt to prevent this, obviously the intention is also stalled, and we undertake that if we can only prevent the privatisation of a few tens of thousands of hectares, and with this we can keep it in state ownership, it is an acceptable thing for us, and we will continue to fight it, in addition, of course, to say that this legislation would also deal with a real problem. So it is a fact that I would not consider it fortunate that this distortion of the market would persist even if the State no longer used these land to achieve its policy objectives, but merely sell it to those to whom it sells it on a market basis, as it is now. [[13.50]] After all, I'm telling you, of course, this wouldn't be a lucky situation. But if we can prevent this draft, thereby disenfranchising some customers, and this remains state-owned, and therefore the next fair government, which will stand up from 2018, will have the opportunity to intervene in the life of the Hungarian countryside by maintaining its state land, then we will undertake this, and I hope that I will be proud to say that this obstacle will leave the Hungarian state with several hectares of land. By the way, this does not have to be a stranger to you, because the national rural strategy, which is mentioned so often here - interestingly only from the opposition side - was adopted at government level in 2012 and which includes the fact that the Hungarian state wants to increase the amount of its land and that funds and resources need to be provided for this. We supported this in principle, because every year we submitted additional resources to the budget, and even the national rural strategy says that the Hungarian state intends to continue to be an active player in the land market in the future and to intervene in any case where it considers it to be some sort of speculational or other intention. This would, of course, increase the amount of public land and give real meaning to the words that have now been forgotten, but the campaign has still been very pronounced as a demographic target, as a social land programme, or the deployment of state land for projects that create jobs for local authorities. We also do not see, for example, that in future, if the State wanted to carry out a reservoir or a larger investment and needed significant land, it would provide exchange land for the owners to whom they would own their territories. All of them would have been eligible for a greater degree of state land ownership. Again, I thought it was amazing what Mr István Nagy said in this House that we do not have to worry about the fact that social cooperatives will not be left with land, because the state has already set aside and secured land for this. But how does Fidesz know, Mr. Secretary of State or anyone else, where and under what conditions social cooperatives are formed throughout the country? You're trying to make us think they're seeing the future again. If so, it is quite a problem, but I trust that there will be social cooperatives that we do not see today, and whose land needs will apply, but obviously there will not be one that the state will cover. As I have already said, we acknowledge - and I will do it again - that this draft legislation is also dealing with a real problem. Therefore, despite the fact that we have often been disappointed in your credibility and good intentions, Jobbik has offered to support this draft legislation, along with certain guarantees, as well as its previous two-thirds predecessor. I would like to highlight three very briefly. We said that if we accepted the previous amendments tabled by József Ángyán to the Land Traffic Act, we would believe that this draft legislation serves a fair purpose. Here, most importantly, we have highlighted family and municipal comparability, as well as the possibility of prohibiting foreign land purchases, especially in terms of state land. We also said that if you could stand up a committee of inquiry, which, by the way, opposition representatives have already signed [[János Pócs: It's called blackmail!]] And we would determine how many billion forints Hungarian taxpayers have lost in the last twenty to twenty-five years because you have only just realized that you need to raise the rent on a market basis, that we would investigate and have those responsible, then Jobbik would say, after admitting their mistakes and finding those responsible, it would be worth starting with a clean slate and putting these rents on a market basis. As a better Member, let us be allowed to say that it is not an argument in this debate that socialist governments have stolen more from taxpayers by privatizing state economies in an unfavorable way or by you. I'm glad you're admitting this here and throwing it at each other - this obviously didn't surprise us, we're sitting in the Jobbik faction because we know it - but that's not an argument for us. I know your minister has admitted that if you are on the government, you steal, if you are the socialists, then they are, but that doesn't mean you want us to contribute to the total nullification of state and national wealth. If we have discussed an unjustified competitive advantage: explain to me why only Csányi's interests can remain, why only he can be a model economy, what is the plus thing that he puts on the table, which leaves his territories untouchable, I do so, even these ridiculous rents can remain for him, what makes him a different oligarch than the former favorites or future favorites. It would really be good to get an answer to that, because for now, all we can see is that he is in a kind of untouchable protected status. Once again, I stress that we condemn privatisation, but if they do, where is the obligation to create jobs, for example? Where is it, when the Hungarian State expects that once it disposes of its property, its national assets, it will be subject to conditions. I remember that when I was a member of the ad hoc committee on the destruction of the sugar industry in the region of 2011, which was, by the way, a very instructive committee of inquiry, you said a number of times that in the Antall-era and Horn-era there were privatizations in the food industry that did not contain any guarantees, and that you did not even ask the new owner to keep a job, and that this was a crime, and if there had been no statute of limitations, then I do not know how many former decision-makers should have been put in prison. I agreed with these at the time, and I also said that the privatisation process that our country carried out after a period of lying to the regime change was extremely irresponsible, but now you are doing exactly the same by not imposing any obligation to create jobs in the privatisation of state land. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] These were perhaps our most important problems with this legislation. I hope that, as I said, we will be able to prevent it, if not here, in front of the Constitutional Court, because this may also save a few 10 or 100,000 hectares of agricultural land for the offspring, and, above all, from 2018, a fair standing Jobbik government will have the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution to what is happening in the Hungarian countryside and to implement the national rural strategy that you have created and marked. It's gonna be weird that a opposition party is gonna have to fulfill your earlier promises, but we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it. The only thing I can say and demand is that privatisation be stopped immediately. He now has more than two weeks of experience behind us, and it is clear what processes have started and who have acquired the larger bites. No one has previously argued that there will be family farmers living locally in smaller areas, nor do I care if they have a Fidesz passport, I believe that this should not be a problem, and in a normal country it should not be, but it is also clear that the larger areas have so far been able to be purchased only by the close interests of the well-defined government and by foreigners. I think that the process by the end of the year will only make these proportions worse, so all their arguments have been completely clogged, and the land is not for the man who makes it. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-72	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-12-02-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, the first thing we need to talk about is why we're here. The main reason why we're here is that you've come up with the idea of privateizing 380 thousand acres, and your land privatization plan has failed. He failed because the lies he told about this fell, and now they are desperate to sell more, to sell more. Apparently, their claim that foreigners couldn't get to the ground has fallen. It's the first one to fall. Obviously, it turned out that citizens of the Member States took the Hungarian land without further ascribed to small farmers. You made this possible by privatization of the soil. Congratulations on that. It has been decided that small and medium-sized farmers will be able to land. It's not like that. It is virtually capitalized farmers who can buy this land. Minister Sándor Fazekas's kinship left 150 million on Monday, obviously the fidesz small farmers you represent in Parliament. So, obviously, that's settled, too. And it was also decided that the system would be transparent. To this day, there is no record, there are auctions, and no one can tell us who bought the land, where, for how much. Technically, we know a dial number of the winners, and we can barely know who they are, so we have to run after people at the auctions to get to know some of them, and they say in a very cynical and arrogant way that they will be dependent, and there you can find out. Obviously, anyone who has the capacity to go through 3,200 settlements, what has been posted, will find out. [[14.00]] But their biggest lie is the whole justification, and this is how Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy, demands this bidding, how much they want it, and how they line up for it. Please, as this is now about a fact from two and a half weeks of experience, 40 percent of the land simply stays inside, no interest in it. Of the other 60 percent that sells, 80 percent of that goes at the starting price, there's no bidder. Technically, those are the facts. And now, in order to somehow support your earlier lies, you want to increase your desire to do so. I have already heard from my colleague Sándor Font, who said on News TV, that they will cut up the larger landmarks to make it easier to sell. You're doing everything you can to get rid of the land. Obviously, this is the goal, this motivation, that is what keeps us here and allows us to talk about this proposal. The land privatization failed, and yet they can't back out of it. Obviously, the first thing with my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, was the opportunity to exchange ideas at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, so I do not wish to repeat the arguments made to him, very, very many times against him, but most of all, the fact that the farmer society has been struck by the fact that they pay 580 forints on one side of the road and 3500 forints on the other side of the road, and these farmers call for a solution. Please, I don't know if they just cleared their ears, that for five years they didn't scream or scream very quietly. How is it that, right now, in the middle of agricultural privatization, the cry came out? Have the channels been empty that prevented you from hearing this sound? Obviously, the reason I'm most disturbed is that these arguments are always made, because we simply cannot emphasize this background, which is now being used as an argument, you created it. Please, have those who have committed land lease contracts for 50 years that do not have to follow inflation, do not have to follow real value, do not have to take into account the aid? Please, let us see how these have been implemented, under what conditions. Then, when they have produced those responsible for them, it will be worth talking about, and they may seem more credible about it. But as long as, as my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös has said, until today, land lease contracts are being concluded which are not favourable to the state as owner, this is a completely uncredited claim that the farming community is demanding this. This demand could have practically stopped at any time in the last five years when you were in government, steered by a stable two-thirds for a long time, until no one cried out to get your voice to you. In fact, in December 2013, you were the ones who cemented this into the Land Traffic Act so that you could not touch the opposition's objection. There were Members who went up to the pulpit and tried to protest that this nation-treasoning legislation should not be passed, which basically pushes the Hungarian land traffic towards the very unhealthy large estate structure. Well, please, you've rented it, your government's predecessor has rented the land on bad terms, your land traffic law, which you've only voted for, has cemented this system, and now you're coming to Parliament and you're saying that farmers are screaming. Well, obviously that's what raises a lot of questions. The first question, however, is amended by the amendment of the previous Land Traffic Act, when it is said that either party can now initiate this, so that it can be reduced and raised, yes, but it is always interesting to know who the judge is. Because in this situation, the Hungarian state wants to play the judge of Gyev, who doesn't have to. If the Hungarian state continues to give it to Sándor Csányi and to those 10 of the dirty 12 who do not touch its land now because there are friendly owners, then there will be no objections, because the state will give it a tacit indulgence or the owner who comes to a favourable position. Well, let's see, out of the dirty 12 that's been said so much, only 80,000 acres of it, who are allowed to privatize their land and who are not allowed. Obviously, you can see that. I am pleased that my fellow Member, István, is here in this Chamber, to look at the privatisation of the Turkish state economy in Szentmiklós, the conditions under which he has been privatised and now that he is being touched. The person who does not touch it in a friendly situation, let us continue this criminal system that they created, while the others, they want the Hungarian Parliament to assist as a political reckoning. And the best, the funniest, which is why we can talk here, my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy also said that he did not give a long introduction, because this topic has already been here before Parliament. Yes, he was here before Parliament, and Parliament rejected this proposal. So what do they do now? They tried legally, they didn't, Parliament didn't support it, and now they're coming back on a loophole or a small window to reach the same goal with another proposal that is more illegal, in violation of the Constitution. Well, please, of course there was this topic. Did the National Assembly support you? He didn't support it. Then why are we negotiating here? Because they want to do it at all costs, does it matter whether it's legal or not legal? And it's obviously possible to talk about it, the existence of the problem has been recognised from the beginning, we've recorded several solutions. My fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, has also said from the international examples the possibilities of defining the ceiling. It was also mentioned at the Agriculture Committee meeting that if the government wants to regulate this factor, there is an opportunity to standardise land leases with regulation. But that's not the goal, it's how to turn this into a political reckoning. With this, I am going to turn to Mr Miklós Kis's speech on the position of the government. Forgive me, Mr. Secretary, for using this expression, that it has not been implemented because of lack of cooperation. I would like to say that it has not been achieved because of lack of cooperation. Because, for some reason, parties with completely different ideologies, which are here in Parliament, agreed that the kind of ambition that you have represented in this matter should not be allowed to pass. Because these parties with completely opposite ideologies, which argue with each other and criticize each other on a number of things, agree on the interests of the nation. And this one overrides their political debates to save these lands from this kind of exploitation opportunity that you created by privatization of land. So forgive me for correcting your use of the word, it is not because of the lack of cooperation. Due to the establishment of national cooperation, this could not have been achieved at the time of the adoption of an amendment to the Land Traffic Act. At the end of his speech, it was nice to say that it would be good not to say political voices. Nevertheless, you yourself say that the land belongs to the man who cultivates it. This is a very interesting speech, and we have a lot to talk about. 'Cause if we look at who's working on the land right now, including Lajos Simicska, Zsolt Nyerges and his interests, they should have it. I would like to illustrate the level of this demagoguery by comparing the 200,000 land users, farmers and 2 million owners, and I ask you with respect, is there any intention that 1.8 million owners who use land leases to nationalise or take their land away from them? Because when you say that, these voices are spoken here, outside Parliament and Parliament, fidesz MEPs, that is practically what they claim. You want to eliminate the kind of wealth that uses land leases to exploit your land. You say it's not good. The state sells the land because he doesn't use his land, and he shouldn't. But please, there are another 1.8 million owners in this country who say that I stick to my property, I want it to stay, because it represents value, and the way to exploit it should be the land lease system. When they talk about this, and they say that the land should belong to the one who cultivates it, they should never forget that the property of this 1.8 million people is also being compromised, and obviously the question arises here, how is this in harmony with all their other efforts? In its head of State Secretary, it has been said that the aid policy has a fundamental influence on the amount of land lease fees established under the land lease scheme. I fully agree with Mr Secretary of State, all I have to ask is that you have just noticed this, in 2015, or you think that it has just been formed in the last year. Or hasn't there been any sign of this since 2004? Hasn't there been a signal since the beginning of their government since 2010? Of course it affects it, it affects a large part of the country, it's obvious. Why are we only talking about this in Parliament after two and a half weeks of land privatisation in 2015? Obviously, this is the most important thing we are constantly saying about what real motivation is. Obviously, I fully agree with Mr State Secretary that the implementation of the common agricultural policy after 2020 is very, very uncertain how it will affect this agricultural support system, such as area payments. But please, the weird thing about this is that I was about to say the same thing about what will happen after 2020. Because now you're destroying what's working, which creates jobs, and it's working at some level and it's economical, but you're not creating the other, the alternative that could replace it. Instead, they make these few hundred family systems when they try to cement farmers from hundreds of hectares to 1-2 thousand hectares. After all, when we talk about the fact that the Land Traffic Act has slowed down the world's traffic, and that's good, because in Europe it is, we have to talk about how they want to concrete the big estate system that we have. Because if the land structure was unhealthy and it had to be restored, then what would be desirable would be if the land market were to move and not be cemented. And their land traffic law allows for this concreteization. It would be a very, very important question, and I would like to thank the Secretary of State for saying something during this debate, not in a closed manner. You said, Mr Secretary of State, that small and medium-sized holdings should benefit, and that competitive advantages should be transformed in such a way as to help them. [[14.10]] I've heard this many times, and I've heard it many times from Fidesz-KDNP, but to this day I've never heard a word about what they're thinking in hectares. For as long as the Aunties, the national rural strategy, were known to be about the size of a family farm. They're thinking 50-150 acres. My fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, spoke at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture this week about why we were disturbed by the size of a few hundred hectares. Please, let's just decide what's small, what's medium, and tell me by number what you mean. What do you mean, farming? If you do extensive grazing, how many acres, and if you do intensive field culture or gardening? Who's small? Or who's big? Because I hear these kinds of phrases and such general, non-abstract phrases on a regular basis, but what matters in a gardening culture is big and what is small is completely irrelevant in what matters, let's say, in a field culture or in an extensive grazing. What you want to cement is obviously an important question, so let us at least be clear about the direction in which the strategy you represent is going. I also fully accept the argument made by the Secretary of State - to demonstrate my constructive agreement - that public land is not sustainable if it is issued for a fraction of the market price. I fully agree, it is completely incomprehensible to me why it has been good so far, so what makes it so good after an Orbán government, then after another Orbán government, and then after another year of thinking that it is not good. It's okay that they just got here, but then tell me what's gonna happen to the others. What about the one who's not your enemy right now, but your friend? What will happen to the empire of Sándor Csányi, mentioned by my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar, which you want to appoint as a model economy, as if for Hungarian farmers what the richest man in Hungary is doing as a billionaire, as if it could be modelled, and the use of the model word should also be followed by all other farmers. So you want this to be the pattern? Sándor Csányi, your attitude and management from everything, is this the Hungarian model? Because they want to cement these with this system, because these lands are not sold and are not designated. Obviously, these questions, which are raised here, basically demonstrate that this whole legislation we are talking about is a follow-up tool for achieving the horribly flawed land-privatisation goal, because they want to sell more, sell more, sell more. With one hand of the government telling us to nationalise, nationalise, nationalise, take into our hands the most important environmental resource background for natural systems, let us have the energy supply, the water supply system, the utility system, because it is good to have it in hand, while we are releasing the most important means of food production, the soil from our hands, we do not need that. Please, obviously, we would like to see clearly, because to talk about land use charges in Hungary, about land lease schemes, this is a legitimate expectation, and if I weren't to waste a serious part of the country and a serious part of public property, it would obviously be worth talking about. But as long as this whole system, conceived in sin, calls for the mandate of Parliament as a means of political repression, I do not think there would be any opposition party with any political ideology that could support it. That is why I ask for your understanding. Believe me, if you were in opposition, you'd object more strongly to such a process. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-12-02-74	My fellow Member Sallai's wish has already been met, because Minister Zsolt Kis asked for the floor.
u2015-12-02-75	Thank you very much. I do not dare to guarantee that Mr Sallai's wish is met, because I am trying to refer to and answer the questions directly related to the amendment of the law, and not surprisingly, opposition representatives are already commenting on the amendment on an issue on which we also held a parliamentary debate, and they have been able to express their views on this in quite a wide range of timeframes. So I do not wish to continue that parliamentary debate today, but I am trying to answer those questions, and there is only one such one, which is directly related to the amendment of the law, and that is what Mr Grimlock said when he asked the question - although unfortunately he is not here, but he will read my reply in the minutes - whether this kind of transfer of contracts affects the provisions on the maximums of property policy. I would like to say to Mr President that the Government, also relying on the position of the Ministry of Justice, clearly states that the new rules on the transfer of contracts contained in the proposal do not have the legal effect that the provisions on the maximum amount of property should be automatically applied to the former landlord. After all, this passu of the Land Traffic Act is conceptually applicable in the event of the tenant's will to acquire the property, and obviously does not apply in the event that the tenant does not act, only changes occur in the owner's person. This was the specific question that has been raised so far by the Members of Parliament on the amendment of the law. In this respect, I do not wish to respond to all the others that have been discussed many times and several times in Parliament during one debate day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-02-76	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2015-12-02-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Then let it be a specific question, because legislative questions, interpretation of the law, if you like, will also be addressed by legal issues, which are not really legal, but will be constitutional issues, I hope that the Prime Minister's Office can answer in this, or the rapporteur himself will be able to say these constitutional issues. It appears from this bill that, if there are treaties concluded by circumventing legislation, there may also be laws created by circumventing legislation, this is what this is all about. This is a law passed by circumventing legislation, or it could also be said to be a bill made by means of a reform of legislation. We can see - and this has been said above - that there was a failed and otherwise not by chance failed bill that required two thirds, and compared to this there was no proper mandate, which must be interpreted as meaning that if there is no proper authority in legislation on a two-thirds subject, then there is no two-thirds power in society to change such relations as this. I say to my fellow Members and, in particular, to the rapporteur that they do not accidentally regulate certain pieces of legislation by two thirds, and that there is no accident that there is a two-thirds priority to certain pieces of legislation - such as the rights of property in relation to agricultural land and other rights of property associated with it, and, for example, the regulation of rights of use - because this is why the legislator himself wanted to highlight that there are such important objects, that there are such important things, that I do not even say that there are matters concerning legal protection, but that there are matters of legal discretion, such as land, which is entitled to be decided by a broad consensus, a two-thirds consensus, which is why those essential clauses have also been incorporated. It seems that the previous amendment did not come together with two thirds, so they now turn to the interpretation provision of the Civil Code and to the Ptké., in which they basically collate with the rules laid down in the Ptké. and the rules on the transfer of the contract established by the otherwise switching rules, in which they take advantage of the authorisation - and not to do so, but to do so by law, but by good faith - that the transfer of the contract is possible also by law, so that a law can be created on the basis of which these connecting rules can be obtained, without two thirds, to change the lease conditions and to rapidly reorganize the lease relationship. And I would suggest to consider that, overall, it would not be a problem to try such things, but it is a serious problem and a big problem, that when we talk about agricultural land itself, the question of constitutionality is not only a formal requirement, it does not only mean that something is written for it by law, that there is a fundamentality clause, but also the content requirement, and the content requirement therefore applies to agricultural land. So you can avoid the two-thirds rules, you can try to bypass the polarity clauses from the right or left, but by circumventing the legislation you cannot reach your real goal, because all the rules on land - and all the regulations you plan - will require a two-thirds majority. That's how it was designed. You can't bypass this, you can't bypass it from the right or left, you can't jump it from the front. This can be overcome by either taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the law in the lease, which are currently available in the Ptk. and the parties to the lease are accounted for accordingly, or, of course, by a two-thirds rule, if social and parliamentary support is available. But in this case, not only the parliamentary, but also the social mandate seems to be missing from this aspect. I would like to say to everyone that there is a need to exercise more restraint when we are talking about a subject of law or an institution such as agricultural land itself, and it cannot be stylish, I think, because such a kind of circumvention, which is Pt's, is very stylish. , and the Ptk. try to bypass the two-thirds principle by using the rules of the switch. Therefore, this styleless coat must be removed, and there is no wrong way to go about it. [[14.20]] So, what I've said is this constitutional issue, in this case it's not just formal, it's also a substantive requirement. On this basis, at least one paragraph of this bill needs to be amended, and we believe that either paragraphs 3 or 4 of the bill need to be amended by determining that the relevant provision is fundamental under Article P (2). This is based on the fact that, as I have said, all the details of the land, all the rights of property or property, can only be touched by a two-thirds rule, and, by the way, feeling that it is important for you to avoid this situation, this must still be respected. This is your Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law that everyone has adopted, or is trying to keep in mind, so that you can't outsmart these rules. All in all, it must therefore be stressed that, in essence, by jumping through and bypassing legislation, we can say that it is an abusive bill, which lacks a very, very important part, which raises constitutional concerns, where it will be contrary to fundamental law, and we say this with good intentions, Mr President, that this legislation is against the law, and that is why we are proposing the amendments with which it is in compliance with the Fundamental Law. But, then, it's a question of whether we'll have social support. I still believe that neither social support nor parliamentary support are available to engage in these relations in this way. I will continue to say to you, and that would be essentially a advice, that if you have developed the current relationship in this way and there is a specific legislation, this should not be bypassed, but should be done fairly within the legislation, as they do in market conditions. Although I know that this fair word means something different to you these days, I suggest that you return to the written form of the law and act accordingly and do not otherwise submit anti-law laws, because at present this form is not feasible without amendments and violates the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-78	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-12-02-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start from where some of my fellow Members have put their final sentences. In fact, when it comes to legislation, whatever it is, but here we are talking about a fundamental issue, agricultural land, we always say that we must abide by the basic rules. If there is something, and there is a reason why, if it has to be decided by a two-thirds majority, I think that it is unfair, it is unfair to try that if it is not passed by a two-thirds majority between Parliament's walls, if it is not supported enough, then they will try to find bypasses, in the framework of the Civil Code, so that the intention, the will, which you set as a goal at the moment of departure, can be achieved. I think that this is not the disregard of the opposition within the walls of Parliament, but rather the disregard of Hungarian society. What's the other thing is that it starts, not just in me, but in a lot of people, what's behind this, why is everything that you're trying to do with so much violence, so much energy right now. Well, you see, some people call it a gang war, some people call it anything else, that old friends are out of the basket, and, well, these old friends need to be let go not only of their hands, but also punished; they need to be punished. Now, I'm referring to Simicka, her interests, in which you seem to be on the road to not only dropping the lollipop from her mouth, but, if it is already in her mouth, it should be bitter. Now, if these emotions and motives determine government action, I think there's a big problem there. And, of course, you can talk about anything else, you can make up any other, other arguments or interests, but you cannot deny that what I said earlier, but also other fellow Members, is in the thick part of what you are trying to do or what you are trying to do. Look, in terms of professional issues, I am not going too far, not even because my fellow Member Haughty has touched on these issues in his keynote speech, but I would like to be allowed a few to line up. My fellow Member, János Pócs, expressed thoughts that are just exactly true in reverse. My fellow Member says that the political gain of the members of the opposition's benches... - my fellow Members, it is clear that everything you are doing is happening in terms of a kind of political gain or cornering others. But I can also say that... - he says that examples can be made. I think they should provide examples, whether my fellow Member Pócs or the president of the Chamber or anyone else, to say, in cases where the Secretary of State - now the President of the NAV - could be asked, where, say, decisions on the land use lease of 497 hectares were made in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, which, even at the level of the prosecutor's office, were accompanied by an incorrect word, an intervening value judgment, which could rightly be criticized, the issue of unlawfulness can rightly be raised, how and how it can be imagined that the same outcomes are not justified. What I'm trying to say is that perhaps you should consider the examples of what has happened in the last five to six years under your auspices. My fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, noted that the land lease fee, the state lease fee, that is written in HUF 1250, represents roughly half of the reality, but also showed that it is unrealistic to use a word from the mouth of some pro-government politicians to publish up to HUF 100,000/hectare fees. All I would like to add to this is that you know that such an increase in fees is obvious, that it also comes down to final consumers and is also reflected in prices. If, somewhere in terms of rents, one of the pro-government politicians is able to imagine growth rates of ten or fifty times or more, and that is why he will fight, then we are also aware that the prices of products that are practically born after cultivation will suffer, and the final sufferer of this will obviously be the consumer. It does not have to be too complicated to think about this, that the increase in land lease fees is accompanied by such conclusions. But if we want to look at the other part of what they are doing, how and how they come back from an employment point of view, then it is obvious that in order to move towards easier resistance, crop production may be given more emphasis in the coming period than livestock production. Even today, to my knowledge, the ratio that has been overturned in this regard in the last five to six years is not good enough. [[Balázs Győrffy: When did he fall over?]] Yes, in the last five to six years, but it must be added that everything you are doing today leads to the fact that livestock production will be even more repressed. [[14.30]] You know very well, especially the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, that it is livestock farming that requires much more people from the employment side and the employment of live labour than crop production. In other words, employment growth trends will not increase, but rather decrease. Or the third part of the story: by not being able to appear within the framework of this type of ownership, the processes that should be strengthened are being made impossible. The previous item was discussed, for example, what social alliances look like in Hungary or how these forms work within the framework of local governments. Now, just to be clear and clear, let me tell you that today there are 111 such social alliances in Hungary, of which more than 60 - 64, if my memories are not misleading - in four counties. I would also like to add that, of course, these do not work in a very market-friendly way. What I am trying to say is that even if they take away the possibility of funding from the municipalities to have access to the land and have access to it, then everything that should be expanded will be further or will not expand, simply so that the employment situation in Hungary in the countryside can be changed. The essence of this story is that you should strengthen local processes for the benefit of the people and not focus on the interests of new buddies, new buddies. I do not want to oversell things, so once again, just to be clear and clear, I repeat that, even if we only partially meet the fees that you expect to see rise in what you are watering, it will clearly affect people who are not engaged in agriculture, but in products produced by agriculture, whether we think about crop production or livestock production, it will increase the cost of those. If that's your intention, then, of course, do all this. If that is not their intention, then it is obvious that this is not the way to go. The other part is that what they are doing is not positive from an employment policy point of view, I believe, but is accompanied by precisely opposite processes. It has been said once before that, in the employment policy sense, they do not give up everything that might be an important item in relation to access to the earth. As our lead speaker said, if the security of one person's employment was not given per 5 ha, but at least 10 ha, we would not have to face the fact that there are declining numbers of employment in the process of agriculture, but that they would be stronger. My last thought is that it is not a coincidence that, on the opposition side, not only fellow Members, but factions make it clear that, if you are not willing to withdraw from this amendment, you will probably have to meet with this issue within the framework of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2015-12-02-80	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-12-02-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I will try to be brief, but I have some serious legal concerns that are partly independent of professional concerns. So once there's a goal that the government wants to achieve. That's where you can agree or disagree. I can also say very briefly - and I said this in the previous debate when the similar proposal came in - that I received feedback from farmers that they fear that if we make the land and the rent that can be taken out of the land countable on a square piece of paper, so I am sure that you can raise it, you know for sure when you can raise it, then instead local investors will use the land as capital. I don't want to get into it, we've had a discussion about how many golden-claw farmers there are to see if they can buy the land locally. But I can sense it, and the farming community has also said that there are a lot of people who haven't dealt with the land before, but they have enough money that they don't want to keep in a bank. We know that interest rates are very low, after the fall of Quaestor, Buda-Cash, he's crazy, who just puts his money in various financial institutions and brokerage houses with high interest rates. So it's very clear, and I've explained, in terms of numbers, how good it's gonna be for someone who takes a discount loan and buys the land. You know exactly how much the market rent you're getting for this, and that's perfectly calculated, if it's worth the business, you'll be buying it, and in many cases you can do it at the expense of local farmers. A lot of people have done this in the last few years. We can agree with the argument - and I also think it is important to emphasise this - that state land previously concluded and issued at a Bagatell price must be sorted out in some way. I've had it, yeah. So we're not against settling this because we have to sort it out. But I told you then, and the farmers said so too, that it would have been appropriate if the auction had taken place now, if you had already argued with the auctions and then, let's say, in the spring, they said that there would be another legislation. So, then, to bring in a law on large estates that are obviously non-bagatel, petty, with contracts concluded for a fifth-sixth of the market price, which may relate to this situation. I ventured that even we could have supported it, but now it is too connected with the auctions, and, as I have said, it attracts too much people in rural areas who are strong but actually not engaged in farming. That would be the professional introduction as to why this situation is not relevant now and why it would have been better to present it next spring. The professional arguments - the Secretary of State has missed this - I would say now. As a lawyer, I would like to say that even if we could agree with what you are saying, or if we were to say that it is good, then what are the legal arguments or legal errors that should not have been made in this form. Having read through this proposal several times, I think the problem is two-way. One is, as my fellow Member Luke said, that certain passes will certainly be against the law. I would also like to quote Article P (2), the Fundamental Law clearly states that the limits and conditions for the exploitation of agricultural land are laid down by a fundamental law. It's in the Fundamental Law. Obviously this doesn't belong here, but we told you when the Fundamental Law was prepared that in many cases the proportion of the two-thirds provisions in the Fundamental Law may have been excessive, we said that there would be a time when there would be no two-thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP majority that you didn't deal with at the time. This pass, however, I must say, is not a problem that it is two-thirds. Well, according to this, all the provisions, as my fellow Member Luke said, concerning the exploitation of agricultural land, are indeed two-thirds. In the previous proposal, however, the Legislative Committee has quite rightly stated this. I just didn't have the two-thirds support. In the proposal, point 2 is replaced by the following: That's why it could be a problem. If someone has a contract now and it's over ten years, it could be reviewed every five years, even if it wasn't included. This could also be agreed. It's just a two-thirds pass. This must be two-thirds on the basis of the Fundamental Law adopted by you. This is a completely objective legal issue, and the Constitutional Court will decide on how to deal with it. By the way, there is also an institution for a constitutional complaint, so it's not just a quarter of the Members of Parliament can jump, although this is also a joke about why it's only a quarter, but I wouldn't agree to that. So in this case, we have a constitutional question. That's one of the problems, the two-thirds story. [[14.40]] Article 6a (2) paragraph 2 of the Fundamental Law clearly states that the limits and conditions for the exploitation of agricultural land are laid down by a fundamental law. It's in the Fundamental Law. Obviously this doesn't belong here, but we told you when the Fundamental Law was prepared that in many cases the proportion of the two-thirds provisions in the Fundamental Law may have been excessive, we said that there would be a time when there would be no two-thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP majority that you didn't deal with at the time. This pass, however, I must say, is not a problem that it is two-thirds. Well, according to this, all the provisions, as my fellow Member Luke said, concerning the exploitation of agricultural land, are indeed two-thirds. In the previous proposal, however, the Legislative Committee has quite rightly stated this. I just didn't have the two-thirds support. In the proposal, point 2 is replaced by the following: That's why it could be a problem. If someone has a contract now and it's over ten years, it could be reviewed every five years, even if it wasn't included. This could also be agreed. It's just a two-thirds pass. This must be two-thirds on the basis of the Fundamental Law adopted by you. This is a completely objective legal issue, and the Constitutional Court will decide on how to deal with it. By the way, there is also an institution for a constitutional complaint, so it's not just a quarter of the Members of Parliament can jump, although this is also a joke about why it's only a quarter, but I wouldn't agree to that. So in this case, we have a constitutional question. That's one of the problems, the two-thirds story.(14.40) The other problem is the retroactive effect, which is also an interesting question, and in many cases, I have to say that it cannot be regulated by even two thirds; they remember the foreign currency-credited polaemia, and it was also considered whether there were two thirds to deviate from certain principles of legal certainty, fundamental rights, where appropriate. But let's not go into this here, but that what you have written here is a sign, and this is acknowledged by the explanatory statement, because I would quote this first sentence in paragraph 3. In the case of lease contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the amendment, the transitional provision specifies how the possibility of adjusting the fee may be applied. So the explanatory statement also perfectly acknowledges that, indeed, this is a retroactive application of law. By the way, all due respect to the lawyers who wrote this, although not perfectly, because they couldn't cross the legal limits, but they could think about it, and it refers to intricate legal thinking, because not only did they have to solve a two-thirds pass with a half law, but they also had to solve it so that it could be applied retroactively. Here we go to the other problem - I am also speaking to Mr State Secretary, because the legal arguments he lacked - that he was very tricky and for me... It is good that Lajos Vékás is not here, because when he created civil law, Ptk., he did not mean that, and in such a way it would be good to have him here, to be able to tell us what nonsense is being done here by raping civil rules, because it has indeed been included in the rules on the transfer of contracts, which you refer to 6.211. The point of this section is that it is not a new contract, but that the parties are transferring their position of contract, and there are indeed two cases in the Ptk, when this can happen by the will of the parties to the contract - obviously this will be a three-way transaction, since the person entering into the contract may also be a third party - or a third party. But if it's done by law, it's still a contract transfer and not a new contract, so we're talking about two different legal concepts, and that's exactly how it's used in Ptk. Therefore, the party leaving the contract and remaining in the contract and entering the contract - they are the three parties in this case - can agree - this is when it is not done by legislation - that the rights and obligations of the party leaving the contract are transferred overall to the party entering the contract. So the contract remains, the Ptk. According to its rules, the contract is not terminated and a new contract is not concluded; this is not what the institution of the contract transfer is about. [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] Not yet, yes, my colleague Győrffy says, but the problem is that this is not the case in the Ptk., and you do not modify the Ptk., only the Ptk. They're trying to explain that, sire, this is what we're trying to interpret as if the transfer of contracts isn't what's in the Ptk., but actually means the termination of a contract and the conclusion of a new contract. But it can't be done in this form. Of course, the Ptk. can be transformed - I do not suggest that we destroy a legal institution here in this form - but you are not modifying the Ptk., but the Ptk itself. The law on the authorisation provisions for its entry into force, where a completely contrary rule is stated, because, referring to 211 - which I have just said means a transfer of contracts, which is what it says - you are saying this to the Ptk. that this is not actually a transfer of contracts, but that a treaty is terminated and a new contract is being concluded. So this is the other problem, which, in this form, cannot and is completely incomprehensible, as if the apple were said to be pear with another rule of law. It doesn't work and it's completely wrong. I will also tell you something else to draw your attention to why a lot of lawsuits could be prepared and there would be a legal uncertainty if this were to be adopted. I also have to tell you that, in general, big owners will be able to afford the best lawyers, they will be able to attack them, and more specifically, the treaty amendments that you want to make by law. They're gonna attack him in court, because the Ptk. has another pass, that's the 60th part of Section 6. If the content of the contracts concluded before the entry into force is changed by law - we are talking about this - and the changed content of the contract is in violation of the fundamental legitimate interests of one of the parties - it is obviously in violation of the fact that if the lease fee changes - this party may ask the court to amend the contract or withdraw from the contract; obviously, the amendment of the contract should be considered here. So, based on this passage, the courts will also be able to challenge them. So you cannot in this situation, so, in this form, especially bypassing two thirds, create a rule that would not go against the Basic Law because of the two thirds of the basic law, or which would not go against the basic law's legal certainty sections and the Ptk. Its system could not be challenged in a court of law if it was properly applied. I believe that it is easy to see from this point of view, and I trust that you would not want this to happen either, if there were to be a situation where countless lawsuits would start, countless constitutional complaints would arrive, and this would create an unpredictable situation, whether the constitutional complaints which will be lodged, whether to challenge the treaties or to challenge the amendment under the law. Not to mention if you read the third. It also refers to things which are quite simply not. I wouldn't read the second part of it, so I read the first part of it, so here the lease is referred to as if it were in the new Ptk that it could be applied to this terminated contract, a new contract rule that you would like to include or change. In addition, they also refer here to the fact that, again, it is inaccurate that it actually means a transfer of contracts by law, so here there is no longer the amendment, the termination treaty, a new contract in the last point that has been described. It could be argued whether this is indeed a contract transfer, probably otherwise considered, but that, in this form, a transfer of a contract cannot be considered as a Ptk. On the basis of its system, especially with non-retrospective effect, the termination of a contract and the conclusion of a new contract, it is quite clear. I have to say that the government is a bit embarrassing, I have to say, and it will be embarrassing, even in the legal faculties, when they teach us what laws come before Parliament; and when the law students ask their teachers: doesn't the Parliament know this, doesn't the government know, doesn't the codificators know? But, you know, I'm sure you know that you're the only ones who've asked them to force the law anyway. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And that's how they did it, but they probably wouldn't add their names. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-82	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-12-02-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the two better lawyers who spoke for the fact that they have taken this legislation to pieces in such detail. Using the two most typical legal terms of my fellow Member Mr Gábor Staudt, the fact that he was snuck up by the Ptk. This is what marked this proposal most, and I was pleased to see that these were specifically dismantled. At the same time, my main concern was, as my fellow Member Gábor Staudt said, and I think they also know on the government side that it is completely unacceptable, completely illegal and totally offensive, but that is not the point, but the point is to send a message to their own people in the middle of land privatisation, to buy, buy, and then smooth everything down, to settle everything you want, and then to put it out, to create legislation for them. [[14.50]] And that is why the problem is that if we stand in good faith with this proposal and simply look for why it is against the law, we will treat it as a fair, fair proposal and not in this sinful mood of land privatisation. First of all, I would like to repeat my question to Mr Secretary of State. He said there was no substantive question. Once again, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State that, if you would consider this question to be meaningful, that when you say small and medium-sized farmers, please tell me: a gardening sector, a grazing, extensive livestock sector, intensive livestock farming, arable land, who are you expecting to be small, large in hectares and golden crowns? Somehow it should be defined, because the government is constantly saying so, and at the same time it is always that Sándor Csányi is also a small farmer, yeah, and, in fact, Sándor Fazekas's kinship is small-scale. So whoever they want is being called upon to include it, while not being determined in an absolute way what it is then. So that would be a great help, because then we would know what they want to represent. And obviously I didn't want to respond to my lead speaker, János Pócs, because I wouldn't have wasted time on that, but now I want to be clear about something in my own time frame. I said it twice at the committee meeting, and you didn't understand, Mr János Pócs, I thought I would explain it to him for the third time, even more slowly, in case you understand why this proposal is completely unhostile. I apologize, for you, for this clarity, for farmers, for stable, reliable farming, for concluding a contract with the amount of a lease fee and possibly for making improvements, that means predictability. The good thing for land users is that the owner cannot reach into this by any means afterwards. If the Chamber of Agriculture represented the interests of farmers and not government goals and propaganda activities, it would protect farmers so that farmers can expect to expect, under a predictable, safe cultivation condition, that the land lease agreement they have committed themselves to for 5 years, 10 years or as long as it remains so. Right now, there's a farmer, he's signing a land lease contract for x, x year, and then the owner gets replaced in a year, and this opens up the opportunity to start all negotiations again, even though he may have made improvements that year that he calculated his expenses, revenues, and tried to develop his business plans. So if the Chamber of Agriculture or the government were to say that they wanted to represent economic interests, they would say that only farmers could have a say in this, then they could take place at the initiative of farmers, only to reduce and not to increase. The problem is that this is not in the same way as the previous proposal, which was here two weeks ago, was even less so. It's not the farmers that matter to you. It is also clear to you that I would like to explain to János Pócs, because he does not understand this: there are owners of agricultural land and there are users. In Hungary, these are two separate rights, the right to land use must be declared. Now a farmer, a farmer, needs the right to use the land to produce, needs to be able to work to cultivate that land. Ownership is a property right and it is about who owns what property and is not necessarily linked to the use of land. And it is important that you understand this, too, János Pócs, if you are already a member of the Agriculture Committee, that it is practically the land use that determines our agricultural production at the moment, because land use rights are linked to production and not to property. The difference between landowners and land users is about 1.8 million persons, but there are very few legal persons among them, but in most cases they are natural persons, and in these cases they are fully trying to serve their interests and not their farmers. It can create an extra security for landowners who get property one way or another. And the reason why it is important is that this civil code and this amendment are in front of us right now, because you say that, in the event of a change of ownership, please, the land privatisation that you are doing, and then, after the postings expire, and practically the suspension offers will have the sales contracts, and the land registry will be carried out, this will be next spring, and you will be able to accept it by then. In doing so, they want new owners now acquiring ownership to be able to exert some pressure on the former farmer. Obviously, you can say that your political goal is to knock Lajos Simicska out one way or another, but you don't understand that this is a wide spectrum tool, and you can hit all the other earth users with this, however, it's not a fair instrument, because it's okay to hit Lajos Simicska together, but then not just him, but all those who participated in it, everyone who has 147 thousand hectares of land tied down to such a long term, and even those who have been put in a position with a controversial moral background in recent years. If this objective is to appear and be achieved, then it will be worth talking about, until then the interests of land users and landowners are not necessarily the same, and this is something that my fellow Member, Mr Pócs, clearly cannot understand. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, rightly said that the biggest problem with this whole system is that it does not, in fact, encourage employment, it does not encourage the strengthening of sectors in agriculture that boost employment, and that my fellow Member is absolutely right, that is true. The terrible thing is that not only do they not encourage, but they take away previous obligations, because as long as they have undertaken animal housing and employment in the rental contract and in business plans, they now get out of it by acquiring property, because if the owner and the user of the land are the same, then the magos farmers will be able to do that in my business plan, I have written that I will hire 6 people, 8 people, 10 people, 10 animals in animal units, 20 animal units or 30, and now I will get the property and get out of it, and I will actually use the areas intensively without employment. So not only does it create a new opportunity, but it escapes the old obligations that the state has assumed, and with which this sinful tender system has been carried out, because that is how they have come to have benefited at all, or that is how these field applications have been won. 'Cause let's face it, a normal person doesn't do things that if he wants to sell something, he's gonna charge him 20 years before, unless that's his intention, and in this case, that was the intention. And it is worth talking about this, Mr State Secretary, because you have said that you do not want to react because this has been discussed before, but also the Secretary of State, I think, is following Parliament's work so closely that it was a time-frame debate, and very, very few things could be brought up in the time frame, although the simple parliamentary debate, let us say, which was initiated by opposition representatives alone, has not been in a decision-making position. So we talked here, and the Fidesz Members were shriveling their shoulders, that we would talk about what we want anyway, because it will be what the majority wants, and the majority of Parliament has the Fidesz-KDNP, so I wouldn't call it a valid debate, because most of the time we feel like we're arguing with a broom handle, saying our arguments, and we have a shoulder tow, or there's no counter-argument, or they're talking about something else. So it is important to talk about this in the changes to legislation when we are in a decision-making position, so that it is clear what we have represented and how we have represented it. In summation and not drawing up your time, I must say that in these forms it is not simply because the legislation of my present referral conflicts with good ethics, not simply because it violates legislative standards, as has been described in detail by my fellow Members, but also because it is consistent with professionalism and government objectives. for us, this will be unacceptable, and therefore we cannot support it. I'm asking you to understand this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]]
u2015-12-02-84	In a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-12-02-85	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm trying to be brief, I just forgot one thing, which is basically a codification error. You're on 2. Article 50/A is worded as follows: Paragraph 1 is added. By then, it will come into force, which we have accepted, which went through with the shot, so it should have been written here that it is changed, so it is a small thing, but it can be seen that it has just been lifted from the previous one. It is therefore important that an entry into force phase can be amended and not supplemented, since it will be in force by then. This may seem a little something. One more thing, but it's important, and it suggests that unfortunately, the previous proposal was based here, transferred, and it wasn't spotted by those who were supposed to find it. And one more thing is 3. I would like to point out that this is also a legal curiosity. It is written as to why this should apply to contracts concluded earlier, which is why, in view of the change in the owner's identity, he replaced the lease contract which had ceased due to the transfer of contracts - I will not read the beginning of it. So this is an oxymoron in literary terms, because they admit that it is a contract transfer, it is a change that assumes that the contract will remain, and therefore the lease agreement has been terminated, and they are talking about a new contract, no such thing. [[15.00]] This is completely contrary to any kind of legislation. Please reconsider and try to submit it in a way that is consistent with the legislation in force. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-86	I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will give the floor to the rapporteur, and I will ask him if he wishes to respond to what he has said. [[Zsolt Kis Miklós: I don't want to. Balázs Győrffy reporting. Intercoms: There's the author!]] Excuse me, excuse me. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy.
u2015-12-02-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to a few points. I'd go chronologically. Don't let me stop and tell Congressman Grudge how many public economies he's privatized. It's simply nonsense that you're talking about twelve, while you're hitting 130 people in the ass. [[Zoltán Haughty: Not good! It's not good!]] Honourable Congressman, This legislation does not, by the way, give the new owner the opportunity to terminate the contract. You give the tenant the opportunity to terminate the contract. Give the owner the opportunity to terminate the contract if the tenant wants to reduce the rent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The land office doesn't register!]] I suggest you study this amendment for a short time. The maximum rent is, by the way, a question that we talk about regularly, and basically, if you look at it just like that in itself, you could agree with that, but what I see is that rural people are very creative. So they write down, say, 50-60-70,000 forints for rent, and how much more they put in pockets outside of paper, there's no one who can check that, and there's no system that encourages them to do that. We agree on the 100,000 forints rent. I don't think that should be calculated. In our region, I think we fully agree on this. You can't manage that. Indeed, somewhere around half, between 50 and 60 thousand forints is what is realistic. Obviously, however, there are substantial differences in the various points of the country, as the Member pointed out. The congressman is talking about whether Neppers are buying land. Congressman, you have to be a farmer to buy. [[Zoltán Grim Reaper, that's two days!]] 300,380,000 acres are now sold. Congressman, between 2002 and 2010, at least as much land changed hands, where anyone could buy land, anyone could be a buyer and not be tied up. The Member said that he does not believe that the land is in the right place for farmers. We listened to these voices in 90, and I think that since then family farms have been able to prove that they can... [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Dechi! The Dechi farmer? The Decsi Law Office is a farmer? The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, is there any way that I can partially pass on the closing right to my fellow Member, Mr. Haughty?
u2015-12-02-88	Congressman, please stop.
u2015-12-02-89	Because I would take the opportunity to share your sublime thoughts with us. Thank you. Once again, I would like to say that the contract cannot be terminated, and, as Minister of State Miklós Kis said, once this issue has been raised at all, on the basis of information provided by the Ministry of Justice, there will be no problem for those who are now farming over 1800 hectares of public land, since land use is not affected by this legislation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We'll ask you that on Monday!]] This is not the first time that MEP Zoltán Magyar has put forward his suggestion as to why we have thought of this now. Congressman, you still haven't thought about it, and Jobbik has been sitting in Parliament for five years now, and you have not submitted any proposals that address this problem or highlight this at all, so you have not tried to deal with this. My fellow Member, Mr Róbert Benedek, Sallai, says that we are in a hurry. Congressman, we're in no hurry. This problem would have been solved long ago if you had given your support to the original proposal. He says where our ears have been, that we have not heard this request from farmers. Congressman, we may be hearing something, but then you're deaf, because you still don't hear these requests. Congressman, beating up what's working is simply not true. The fact that economies that are now in more favourable conditions than the market and we are trying to push them to be forced to farm under market conditions is an apologies, but a company that is unable to achieve results within the limits of the market on thousands of hectares, I also believe that there are management problems. Let's make this clear, so we're not talking about breaking up. If something goes wrong with a company, I think there's other problems there, and that's not why it's going bankrupt. Mr Luke: I do not think that we should generate a two-thirds debate in order to create clear market conditions, and I would like to answer you in that respect. I do not think that two-thirds is a question of being able to farm in the same conditions and in a competitive neutral way. I think this is simply a matter of morality, ethics, and obviously because we are talking about this, it is a legislative issue. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has left. I am so sorry. [[For signal:]] Excuse me, Mr. Notary, you did speak there, and that's where I've been looking for you. Congressman, you have made rather critical comments on the status of the two-thirds laws. This, from you, after what you did to the administrative offices before 2010, which was clearly thought of in several places, was clearly a shame, and as a regent mayor, I was able to live to see this obscene fun that you were playing with the Hungarian local government at the time. Not to mention that this is a fact, while you are prejudicing this amendment. Mr. Congressman, I'm sorry. I believe you're good at a lot of things, but the fact that you're not good at the pricing of agriculture is certainly proven. So do you imagine that these rents will affect the price of the pig, which, by the way, will be on the German stock exchange, or what is the price of the grain in Hungary, which will be decided on the Paris Stock Exchange? Don't scare the Hungarian customers with that, because you're simply trying to get things together... But, by the way, it would be good if the prices of pork and grain were to be decided in Hungary, but, Congressman, that is not the case, even if that is how you view it. The other issue you raised is employment. Congressman, this, in itself, what you have said, may even be true, but let's just look at it while you were in government, the number of people employed in agriculture has decreased. Employment has increased since 2010, even if you obviously don't like it, but let's be clear. That was a net lie that you just told us. [[Zoltán Pride: KSH!]] Regarding my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, the Member believes that this is against the law. I don't think so. So in this, there is a difference in opinion between us, but I think that we may have an opinion on this, a body that can decide, where appropriate, so I consider their opinion to be decisive in this matter. I would like to say one more thought to my fellow Member, Mr Robert Benedek, for his last speech. You believe in one of your sentences that large farmers, multibillionaires, foreigners are getting to the ground, but here in your last comment, you said that it is really only those farmers who will have the opportunity, and they are the ones who take advantage of the potential of this as new owners. Which is it, Congressman? When the argument system pleases you, you use it, so a little as I have already said, this thing is starting to look like the music clown: every time we say something, there is another excuse. [[Zoltán Pride: But that is true of you!]] Congressman, I would also like to ask that the circus be not confused with Parliament and the work of its representatives with the arrogance. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Decisians are not farmers! (Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-02-90	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-meeting speeches. First, I give the floor to Erika Kissné Köteles to a Slovenian advocate who wishes to present his agenda with the title of the smallest number of nationalities in Hungary: his past, present and future.
u2015-12-02-91	Mrs. KISS KELES Erika. Gospod Predsednik, Hvala za besedo! Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, Poslanke in Poscányi! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Congressman Lords! Of the indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, the VI. From the century onwards, we are the smallest Slovenians living south of the river Rába, at the western border of the country. [[15.10]] The reason for this is the existence behind the 40 years of iron curtain last century, the violent assimilation efforts, the evacuations of families to Hortobágy and the displacements due to difficulties in living. However, about 80 percent of Slovenian nationality still lives in the Rába region, and still adheres to its language and culture. For future generations, two major organizations, the National Slovenian Municipality and the Association of Slovenians in Hungary, are working to transfer their values. Education, cultural institutions and many cultural groups play a major role in the preservation and maintenance of traditions. Because we're shorthanded, obviously every Slovenian has a lot more work to do. We know and believe that if our ancestors have remained Slovenian with many, many difficulties, in today's political, legal and economic environment, when nationalities have a fundamental right to live in their homeland, there must be opportunities and protection for them, and it is our duty to do everything beyond our strength to preserve our Slovenian identity and to preserve our survival. After the change of regime, especially in the past 4-5 years, I can report significantly better operating conditions, thanks to the Hungarian government, the Ministry of State for Church, Nationality and Civil Society Relations of the EMMI, but also to the care of our mother country and Slovenia. This year is the year of the anniversaries with us Slovenians: 25 years ago we founded the Association of Slovenians in Hungary, 20 years old the operation of the National Slovenian Municipality, which was celebrated together with the inauguration of the headquarters with government support, 15 years ago we have our own Slovenian radio, 10 years old, for example, bilingual education in the primary school of the upperszölnők. I consider it of particular importance that the traditional Farsang folk habit of the Slovenians of Rába has been added to the UNESCO national list of intellectual cultural heritage. In Felsőszölnek a new institution, a Slovenian model farm, has been transferred, which we hope can become one of the tourist destinations of our region by promoting the traditional farming, fruit production and livestock practices of Slovenians, together with the almals. The economic development of the Slovenian Rába region is an extremely important effort for Slovenian nationality. Our future will ensure that our young people find work at home, that small and medium-sized enterprises are created in the Hungarian Slovenian environment, which also utilize Slovenian language skills, and that this economic factor in preserving the Slovenian language of nationality among our young people can be an effective motivation in addition to identity awareness. I consider it important for the economic development of the Slovenian Rába region to develop the transport infrastructure to a significant extent, to modernise the local road network of the main road number 8 and our settlements, and to connect the railway with the Mura region. The Slovenian Rába region is often listed as part of the Guard. I would like to make it possible for our regional unit to appear in two languages at the border of our settlements, and for the visible bilingualism to appear on the inscriptions of public institutions, offices and tourist information boards. Nationalities should have genuine bilingual documents, offices should have civil servants who speak Slovenian as well. The relationship between Slovenia and Hungary is exemplary at European level. Economic relations between the two countries are constantly evolving, and their diplomatic and political cooperation is exemplary. Successful partnership relations are confirmed by the high-level interstate meetings that took place during this year, as well as by the joint Slovenian-Hungarian Minority Committee. Meeting of the Slovenian-Hungarian Friends of the IPU on both sides. The Slovenian-Hungarian government summit planned for the beginning of next year also marks the strengthening of good relations. I believe that this good relationship with the Slovenian ethnicity in Hungary, together with the Slovenian Hungarians in Hungary, together with the Slovenian Hungarians in Slovenia and for the Slovenian Hungarians. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We want to stay in the future, and I ask for further support from Parliament and the Hungarian government. Thank you for listening. Hvala za posornost!
u2015-12-02-92	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr László György Lukács came forward with the title of Disappointing Health Indicators in the Heart of the Great Plain. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-02-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The name in the title should be clarified what it means to be a bad health indicator and what it means to be in the heart of the Great Plain. The heart of the Great Plain means that part of the Great Plain, which, in this case, is the district of Kunhegyes. This is a rather well-placed district with good qualities, in which there are also villages along the Tisza region and also the city of Kunhegyes. On the other hand, the disappointing health indicator is nothing more than what the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has established for Hungary, all the indicators, indicators and figures that show not only how bad it is, let's say, the human resources, but also how bad the whole public health itself is, what bad indicators Hungarian residents have. Well, this is also true in this area, so unfortunately, in the poor health indicator, the Kunhegyes and the district of Kunhegyes in the heart of the Great Plain do not differ. Not so much so that the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, we can consider it a health inventory prepared by the public health department of the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county government office, and which became public not so long ago, at the end of October, well this inventory, this health inventory gives sad statistics about this otherwise beautiful and patina region, about the Kunhegyes-centred walk itself. The public health body assessed the state of the county's districts in the previous year, from which it was established that by far in the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok Kunhegyes and its district had the worst indicators. Unfortunately, the figures are not only last at the Hungarian level, but we can still say that they are also competing from behind with the worst states in Europe. We can say that the indicators here and here are even worse than the indicators in Borsodi and are practically in the position of Moldova and Ukraine. Looking through the prospectus, you can find a number of problems that are worth drawing the attention of the public and the general public to, for example, in this summary leaflet, that men and women in all deaths are far worse at walking and at national level than in other walks and national walks, and in women's ischemic heart disease, walking can produce the worst statistics. Men's trachea, bronchial, pulmonary malignancies and the resulting death rate are alarmingly high, and they are losing not only to multiple walks of the county, but also to the worst at national level. Deaths caused by deliberate self-harm, which is the most unfortunate, as we are talking about suicide, along with many walks of the county, so the rest of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County has already caught up with it, one of the worst, devastating, and most depraved statistics nationwide. Unfortunately, there are extremely high suicides in this part of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. For life-related causes of death, the district of Kunhegyes also leads far to men at county level, while in women it leads not even in dead competition, but as the only one. Here, I always put the lead in parentheses, the worst statistics in this case are figurative driving. In women, avoidable mortality statistics related to health care in the district of Kunhegyes at the worst county level, but also at almost national level. This means that persons who could otherwise have avoided their death or illness by quickly being placed in a medical facility are extremely seriously affected by this walk. This shows, by the way, that settlements and certain settlements of the district are often 60 and 70 km away from hospital facilities. For them, perhaps the nearest hospital in Karcag, Szolnok, or even in Eger is the one with the wrong infrastructure, so they are very badly isolated from health care. Unfortunately, the information did not include the number of health developments in the area of walking, which I asked the Ministry in my written question why. It can be seen that health promotion and health assessment are not working perfectly in this district either. Very few people are successfully involved in the work of the health development office here, thus raising awareness of the importance of healthy life in people. [[15.20]] However, I asked the questions that were not answered: how does the government intend to work on balancing territorial differences with regard to public health indicators? Do you have any plans to make this territorial lag? How can you fix this? Do you have any plans to catch up? Well, I didn't get any answers, and it seems that in the absence of these answers, people, like Baron Münchhausen, have to drag themselves out of this public health swamp by their own heads in the district of Kunhegyes, because it seems the government doesn't want to save them. Everyone is asked to consult healthcare providers with confidence and improve their own health indicators if possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-02-94	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Before I close the meeting, I will give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, Mr. notary, as a matter of personal concern.
u2015-12-02-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy is not here, but I promise both Mr President and my fellow Members that I do not live with the same answer that he has directed towards me. He said that what I mentioned about the employment policy of the last few years in agriculture is a net lie. I am not saying this, but I am suggesting to my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, that he should dive a little in the data of the KSH - perhaps he considers it credible - and then he sees that in 2012 the number of people employed in agriculture, forestry and fisheries looked like 193 thousand people, and in 2014 he looked at less than 190,000 people. That's a reduction in my judgment. And what is a net lie, let everyone decide after all. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-12-02-96	Thank you for your work. Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 15:22 p.m.]] László Földi s.k.a.
