u2015-12-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech:. Who is not telling the truth about child hunger? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-12-01-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In recent days, it has become clear that Viktor Orbán has no idea what is happening in this country. On 9 November, the Prime Minister said here in Parliament that our country, Hungary, is today a unique European country where he will surely eat at least four times a day on the state's money from the age of three. This was not only surprising because it was not so, but a few days before that, János Lázár announced that from 1 January 2017 four meals a day would be provided for children's meals. So it was clear that someone wasn't telling the truth. We asked the wallet in writing how many times children will be fed, and whether the Prime Minister or the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office said something false. Mr.Secretary's reply made it clear that Viktor Orbán lied, because today children in the nursery do not eat four times, but three times, and they will only expand the system from 2017. How important is the nutritional quality and quantity of young children? I quote the Ministry's response. A small child is not a small adult, so his nutritional needs and food tolerance are different from those of other ages. The gastrointestinal tract of a child under the age of 3 is still underdeveloped, if he receives food of inadequate quality, quantity and inadequate time, he has too much burden on his body and digestive system. Just as it is not a question of whether there is hunger in Hungary today. This is an existing problem in Hungary today. The government is now acting as a suitable and sufficient response to child hunger problems. We should draw attention to the fact that support for families with children will not be increased in the eighth year of next year. In the meantime, the kindergarten allowance was abolished, and next year the family allowance could be deducted from preschoolers. Our most important problem with the government's proposal is that it will not provide food for all children in need and not for any day outside of school. Weekends are not mentioned in the proposal, and holiday meals will not be provided to all children entitled to regular child protection benefits, who have more than 500 000, but only for some of them. The government is good at using the concept of disadvantage to decapitate, but we know that this definition has also been redesigned a few years ago to at least reduce the number of people in need on paper. Károly Czibere recently said that 208 thousand children will also eat on holiday. But what about the other 300,000 needy children? What about the weekends, Mr. Secretary? In addition, the 208 thousand people, even according to their own concept, are not so many, there are much more disadvantaged children. We know from a previous answer that only 220,000 disadvantaged children go to primary schools, and there are more than 80,000 children in kindergarten. And then we didn't talk about daycare and children under the age of three who don't go to any institution. So, again, math doesn't add up. Just as it doesn't add up if we calculate that the 4.5 billion forints that will be spent next year on holiday meals are good enough to feed 110 thousand children, not 208 thousand children. They keep saying that next year the government will spend 70 billion forints on children's meals. They do not add that this money will not be enough for extended free meals, to ensure the conditions of the cafeteria reform, or for all holiday meals. The Hungarian economy doesn't seem to be doing much better. Last but not least, the government's proposal for the next winter break does not contain any ideas. I told you this last week, and I asked the government to ensure that the poor children could be fed during the next winter break, which could be done from a few billion forints. But the Secretary of State didn't appreciate that answer either. The Hungarian Socialist Party's pickling, the past eight years, was more important to Mr. State Secretary than the 16 days that the children in need will be subjected to deprivation during the break. Well, that's how Hungarian reforms work. It would be nice to get out of their luxury cars sometimes, or at least roll down the window if they are even in a place in Hungary where more than 4 million people are living below the minimum living. You can blame whoever you want, if that's what you want, the congressman, the mayor, or even parents. But it's not the child's fault. We're here to change that. It's not a political issue, it's a moral matter, it's a question of human decency, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2015-12-01-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-01-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is difficult to answer your question objectively, on the one hand, because it is full of self-contrasts, and, on the other hand, on a case where, Madam honourable Member, everyone recognises that this government has made almost as much progress over the past five years as its predecessors have, almost never, in this matter, make a daily party policy, let us not bring it down to this level. Let us be glad that today 225 thousand more young children, kindergartens and cradle children get to eat regularly, several times a day, and do not try to capitalize on various political current capitals, which is more important than that, and you know it very well. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Do we have to continue lying?]] You were on the government, you could have done so much, you could have done so much for these children. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] For their parents, too. After all, in the last five years, we have increased the number of parents who can feed their children on their own salary by nearly 500,000. We increased the family tax reduction, leaving an average of HUF 20,000 more than any family to feed their own child. And don't tell me such half-spoken lies, Congresswoman, that you can now take away the family allowance from your kindergarten parents. Complete your sentence. The parent who doesn't send his child to kindergarten, or the parent who doesn't take his child to school, and the child is missing for a long, significant period of time, say, 50 hours unverified from school, was needed; the parent who didn't pay attention to it, let alone eat, didn't even pay attention to going to school, or in the future he won't pay any attention to going to kindergarten, because in many children, multiple meals a day can be provided precisely by taking him to kindergarten, the compulsory kindergarten serves this purpose. This is a rather important aspect for 20,000 children, because 20,000 more children are now going to kindergarten, and it is precisely from the social group where they were least aware of it, or the least they could afford to feed children at home regularly and in a healthy way. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] This measure is in the best interest of parents who do not pay attention to their children, not against children, and you are here with a semi-spoken sentence to ensure that a family allowance can be taken from preschoolers. You can't take it! If you take your child to kindergarten, take care of the child, eat in kindergarten to raise your child, develop it in kindergarten, there is no danger for them. A slob who doesn't pay attention, who threatens his child can only be a problem for those who do. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we can all be proud that this year has been the first year in which all municipalities who have asked for support for their summer social meals have received support. There was no municipality that would not have received support if it had asked for a summer social meal. [[9.10]] That's why we spent a record-sized sum of HUF 3 billion this year. And since this will be extended from next year to spring break, autumn break and winter break, this amount will increase from 3 billion to 4.5 billion. I think this is also a joint success, not for us politicians, but for the country that Hungarian reforms are working, and now more people can work, the country's economy is in a much better position than it was five years ago, and we can also do this by giving such social support to all municipalities, and all municipalities can feed the children. And the fact that you want to create an artificial contrast here, that once children get to eat, three or four times, could be a contradiction in this, too, in your reading text, once you read it, because you admitted that some people get to eat once, some people get to eat three times, and some people get to eat four times. There will be such a child from 1 January, and it will also be one of them, depending on the form of supply, depending on whether it is on vacation or during school hours. Depending on the type of care they receive. So who said four, who said three, and who said one, each one is real, only applies to different forms of supply. Don't try to confuse them with the congresswoman. But like I said to you, the most important thing I think is that we have reached as many children as possible in terms of both resources and recipients. This is not even part of the social support system for kindergartens and cradles, but is part of the family support system, as it is almost 90 percent of children at Scandinavian level; this kind of wide-ranging support is almost all that we have been able to talk about in the northern European countries. This increased the number of small children who receive free food from 92 thousand to 317 thousand, and the resources provided for this, since when we took over the country's budget, 29 billion HUF was available, 58 billion is available this year, and 71 billion HUF is available next year. This is such an increase that in few other budget lines it has been able to show such an increase in any kind of social benefits since the change of regime and adds family support to this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-01-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, from the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. We defend the title of vulnerable consumers. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In recent years, we have heard countless examples from our immediate environment, from the press, from hundreds of thousands of forints of healing wonder lamps, bedding sets, pulsed magnetic devices. These products are specifically sold to consumers who are vulnerable to their age, gullibility and health, thus misleading, often using unfair commercial practices. This year, KDNP launched a consultation to investigate this social problem. There's been a lot of complaints and information on the phone in letters, e-mails, which has confirmed the news from what we've heard so far. In several cases we have consulted the heads of the relevant public bodies, such as the National Consumer Protection Authority and the head of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority. The problems that the Consumer Protection Authority has known for many years are typical of the activities of commodity companies. The results of the Consumer Protection Authority's investigations in 2013 and 2014 show that more than 60 percent of the cases were infringement. More than 50 percent of the presentations under investigation were commercial practices considered unfair, e.g. prompt decision-making. After the case was taken up by KDNP, a number of television programmes have dealt with human fates as a result of product presentations, presenting further unfair practices. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, Parliament has discussed and is likely to vote today by a large majority on a bill amending certain laws necessary for the protection of consumers in the supply of goods linked with the presentation of goods by the KDP. Dear House, The bill is CLXIV of 2005 on trade. The amendment part of the Act requires the trader selling goods linked to the display of goods to manage, investigate and remedy consumer notifications and to provide customer service at his place of establishment or premises and at his branch, at the place where the goods are sold, at the point of sale linked with the display of goods during the period of the presentation of goods and the supply of goods, to operate the customer service during the period of the supply of the goods, with the possibility of handling the personal, written, telephone and electronically, and the customer service offices on the day-to-day day-to-day basis of at least 6 hours a day and at least 36 hours a week. The provisions therefore aim at ensuring that companies selling products cannot disappear, that consumers can reach them even after buying and that they are able to exercise their legal rights, such as their right to withdraw. In the event of a breach, the Consumer Protection Authority shall act. In the law, we forbid the sale of goods linked to the display of goods to be advertised with a gift application, a discount, a discount or a lot of gifts. Based on the practice, it can be concluded that this form of sale is significantly popular among consumers due to the application of gifts. In the future, it will be prohibited to provide financial services in the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods. The practice shows that consumers generally do not have sufficient financial power to purchase consumer goods offered at product presentations, which are significantly overpriced compared to goods of a similar nature in traditional commercial trade, and therefore the organisers convey consumer loans to them. Dear Parliament, To sum up, our goal is to protect vulnerable people, and at the same time our task is to protect vulnerable people. It is our duty and our responsibility to protect vulnerable people and families from trying to abuse their situation by every legal means available. This is our joint task and our shared responsibility, so I ask that everyone support this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties and the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-12-01-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Ákos Kara wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman, Overall, it can be concluded that a very strict parliamentary decision can be made in Parliament within a few hours with regard to fraudsters and villains; and, dear Member, yes, there is a chance that we hope that all parliamentary parties will vote in favour of this legislation, since last night, last night, we discussed the Commission's amendments. In the context of the final amendments to the legislative committee, MEPs have also said a lot about the fact that the elderly are the vulnerable people, but we are not only talking about them, we want to protect not only them, but also all Hungarian people, all Hungarian families. Indeed, as the Member said, we are going to introduce new customer service standards, with the ban on advertising free benefits, with the possibility of eliminating the possibility of credit placements, and we would like to put an end to the damage to product displays and commodity displays. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to consumer protection, I can safely say that we are facing one of the most serious, if not the most serious, current problem, on which it was absolutely justified to take strict and decisive measures. I have said it several times over the last few weeks, and I repeat it now, because it is important that these measures, which we have talked about in Parliament - which you have said, my dear Member, and I have referred to them before - are in concrete form part of a well-thought-out legislative process, which can be seen as a prelude to the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act adopted during the spring session. [[9.20]] Dear fellow Member, We were pleased with the KDNP initiative, but I would also like to say that the government has a very similar position. These people, these companies, these businesses, have been using increasingly aggressive methods. However, I must also say that in the parliamentary debate, perhaps all parliamentary parties have confirmed, and I would also like to confirm that this is a dynamic medium, a dynamic medium where fraudsters who want to fool people always find new and new methods, so in the coming months, I think it is very justified that we monitor the emergence of new methods and, if there are any such methods - we hope not, but if there are such - we should eliminate them and prevent them from spreading with similar consistency and similar rigour. I would like to say to my fellow Members that, indeed, as the Member said, we have put in place very important measures and proposals, such as the introduction of customer service standards, and, if we are allowed to state the state of the last proposal, very strict customer service rules can be voted in Parliament within a few hours, as one of the Commission's amendments to the bill states that customer service should be open at least six hours a day each working day and five working days per week, and that at least one working day of the week will be open until 8:00 a.m. On the basis of this amendment, telephone customer services will also be governed by the obligation to log in live in 5 minutes, which will also protect consumers and customers. This, translated into Hungarian, means that it provides a help, an opportunity for people who would like to complain afterwards, because they find something about the product that is not in line with the original purchase intention, so they did not give what they promised. At the same time, it is very important that in the case of vulnerable people, it was also necessary to pay attention to the fact that people who were taken to a display of goods should be returned to their place of departure, whether they are buying or not. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, we will therefore monitor the effects of the law. We hope that the strict law will achieve its purpose, with everyday concepts, use of words and words, I must say that we will be on the government's side to ensure that our measures work for consumers, consumers and the elderly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group asked to speak with the title of Emigration on the move, a government that is helpless and denied problems. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, there have been two more reports of emigration, and it is clear from both of them that we can conclude that there is an accelerated trend, an accelerated process and an increasing number of emigrants. One showed the number of registered immigrants, which, we know, is not suitable to tell exactly how many people are in other countries, since the number of registered persons is always much lower than the number of people who actually live there, but it is good to show the trend. The other news relates to the level of credit transfers, which said that the amount of money returned to the country had reached a record. Overall, we are talking about HUF 920 billion. This also shows that there is an accelerated trend, although the study, the survey, adds that this trend may slow down, because we have already reached the level of families moving out, so it is easy to turn away from this point on, that there will be no one left to transfer money home to. So we can see what kind of trend there is, but if anyone looks around, they experience similar things. I, a person who moves around a lot among young people, notice that the most common home-party thing lately is to have a party for friends before travelling abroad, or to come home for a few weeks and invite friends to meet them. This also shows how big a problem this is. Returning to the extent of the transfers: you prefer to present this as a positive one, but let me mention the impact studies of the Hungarian National Bank, which means that two statements on the level of transfers are made on the basis of the impact studies of an organization close to you. Repatriated incomes reduce the willingness of those left at home to work, thus leading to weaker economic performance. Another study in this study also concludes that transfers have a negative impact on economic growth. So I think it is not worth showing any glory or hurrah-optimism on the basis of these figures. Not even because it is worth considering what would happen if these people worked at home, what would happen if these hundreds of thousands of people paid different taxes, contributions and consumed at home. I think that their payment, their domestic consumption, would go far beyond what they send home. And it is not worth mentioning transfers because if they do, they show a very high level of insensitiveness, because then they forget the spiritual background of such work abroad, forget that a lot of families are being torn apart, forget that many parents do not see their children, or that the child that is left home does not see his parents. Many children are forced to grow up without knowing their grandparents, or even grandparents who are left at home can only see their children through Skype. So I'm asking you not to take this transfer as a kind of positive, not even because it's a lying argument. I have just pointed out that it is not positive at all and that it will encourage you to do nothing, although there is a great need to do different things very urgently here. I ask you to change your attitude, acknowledge the problem, and finally do everything you can to bring the migrants home, and also to create conditions that keep young people at home or even less young people at home. I would also like to draw attention to one particular issue in relation to the migrants in the remaining time, and that is that the migrants are not only in a spiritual situation that is very serious, and their situation is really very bad because of the break-up of their families, but their situation is also bad from the point of view of not being able to interfere with the domestic affairs of our country. We know very well that their vote in the letter is not possible at the moment. We have talked about this several times here in Parliament, and you always refer to the fact that current legislation does not allow it. We are aware of this, too, and we know that under current legislation, they can vote only in places of foreign representation. At the same time, we know very well that it is only a matter of will to change this. And you've had a lot of will so far, and you've achieved a lot of what you've wanted in the past few years. I urge you to take action on this, too, even because many international examples show that voting in this letter is possible. Allow me to quickly list some countries where people living abroad can already vote by letter. All this is possible in Italy, France, Romania, Slovakia, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Denmark. So it's up to the will. I ask you to change the current legislation and allow them to vote in the letter. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-01-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The government knows the problem and is aware of the gravity of the situation. You must remember that at the end of last year, in December, there was a parliamentary debate on this issue. [[Gergely Farkas: We initiated it.]] And to conclude, unfortunately, the end of this debate was that although opposition parties raise the problem and express their views on this, they cannot really propose a short-term solution either, because it is difficult to do so without improving the economy, without increasing employment, to achieve serious results. However, it has to be stated that there is not only outward migration in Hungary today, but that workers working abroad are also coming backwards. It is true that, at the moment, it is still true that working abroad is more powerful than coming home. But what we have done to this end and what the situation is today in Hungary compared to the neighbouring countries, I would like to give you some thoughts in this regard in response to your suggestion. [[9.30]] If we look at the surrounding countries and say two, Poland and Romania as examples, then the situation in Hungary is better. In Romania, the migration rate is 10 percent, in Poland about 6 percent, i.e. the proportion of emigrants to the working age population; this is about 2 percent. This indicates that the least of them are leaving Hungary at the moment, and the least of them have left Hungary to work abroad in the past. It should be stated that no one is forced to work abroad in Hungary, and everyone does so on his own initiative. Of course, that's not a joyful sentence I just said. But what does the government do to ensure that as few people as possible choose to work abroad? I'd like to say a few thoughts. For example, a number of programmes have been put in place over the past period, with a number of programmes that allow employers to give more money and workers to receive more salaries for the work they have done. Therefore, I would like to set a simple example that can be followed and united. The government, in consultation with the social partners, has raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 105 000 in the last five years, i.e. by 43 percent, from HUF 89 500 to HUF 122 000, i.e. the guaranteed minimum wage by 36 percent. As a result, the real value of the net minimum wage for workers with family benefits increased steadily and significantly between 2011 and 2015. It must be said that in order to bring home as much salary as possible and to make as few people as interested in working abroad as possible, the government has taken serious measures. In 2013, the pedagogical career model was adopted, which provides continuous wage increases for educators and educators involved in public education for a period of five years. From 1 July this year, we have raised the wages of law enforcement workers and soldiers by an average of 30 percent, and in the next four years we will increase the wages of law enforcement workers and soldiers by another 20 percent, also in a career. In July 2016, we plan to start the career of government officials and work on the careers of social workers, and in healthcare we have increased the earnings of professionals and doctors by an average of 27 percent on average. It should also be mentioned that the most affected in terms of migration is the age group of young people, which you mentioned. We're doing everything we can to keep this age group here and here. Let me mention such a program to you. For example, this was the story of the "Come home, young" programme, which aimed at helping young Hungarians in England to return home for the first time. Or we can mention the OSH action plan, where employers have received significant support for the employment of young people under the age of 25. Or it also helps young people under the age of 25 to become entrepreneurs. And two or three other programmes could be mentioned to help keep young people at home by the government, together with employers. I ask you to take this into account, and in the following manifestations do not frighten young Hungarians, Hungarian workers, but to support their stay at home. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-01-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title: "In a web of lies." You have the floor.
u2015-12-01-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm truly sorry that you were sent here again to stand up for other people's mistakes. Talking about why the land privatization failed, on debate day, we were pretty much screening the conclusions. We can see that this is an extremely destructive and treasonous decision on the part of the government. It's a fact that they're doing it anyway. In the fact that there should be a lot of manure, where they support it, all over the government representatives, I'm sure. But obviously, this is not just what we need to talk about, because this decision has already been made, but also what it is like to conduct it, what else they lie about. Because they lied about it being good, but they also lie about how it wouldn't affect foreigners. Please, it is an obvious fact that you can wash the Serecsen here, how... - Hungarian farmer the Austrian farmer, the Austrian President of the Theess, will become a Hungarian farmer, that the thousand-hectare large owner will then be a small owner. Every foreigner who puts down 86 million in Bács-Kiskun County, whether in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, can be the nicest person, can be the best farmer, not the problem. Of course, they can all be valuable members of the local community. The problem is that all other Hungarian small and medium-sized farmers, who are supposed to be their target group, have no chance of bidding against them. No one has 60 million and 100 million to participate in them. Except - but I'm telling you right now, because their second big lie is that it's about small and medium-sized farmers. The good news is, in the third week of the auction, I've seen a really small and medium-sized farmer who could buy 3 hectares by the order of about 100 hectares. That's right. They'll be able to show up in their campaign that they could sell some of these three-acre estates to decent people. But at the same auction I was at yesterday, Minister Sándor Fazekas's relative Péter Bekecs left 156 million in two auctions with a snap. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks:]] That's easy. These are your small farmers, these are your friends you're trying to confirm, so it's clear who you're trying to strengthen. Obviously, if you look at Tiszaszentimrei Agricultural Ltd. Your owners, and we'll look at how much land you've been given as assignment in the last few years, and then we'll see that some of you are sleeping well with you. Obviously, if that is the goal, that is what we need to talk about, not to feed the opposition and society by saying that the little ones are important to you. They lied and cheated when they said they wanted to help the little ones, didn't they? Only the greats have the chance to take the land, and you will be able to show some three-acre sales that the little ones bought. But the vast majority of the lands, which can be sold at all, because many of them cannot be sold, have come to such large ones and to foreigners against whom the Hungarian farmer has no chance. Obviously, in continuing their lies, it was also a great deception when the process was promised several times here that it would be transparent and public. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to exchange ideas about this with the Secretary of State. In your opinion, once these property rights have been registered, they must be made public. In our opinion, since we are talking about a high-value state asset, it would be okay if the process were transparent. But Zsolt Neszményi, a government commissioner in Somogy County, also stated at a press conference yesterday that they do not need to keep such records, it is not their job to make this public. They tell everyone to go in, sit in for the auctions, and they'll know the names. But even that's a lie, because you can't find out there, because only the dial number is given to the winners. It's not like society would find out who's taking these hundred million dollars out of community property, out of state property. Obviously, it was also decided during yesterday's series of articles that I would represent the interests of farmers in anything. No, what you're trying to do with an anti-farming effort is to make farmers feel one-sidedly uncomfortable. Their proposal for a two-thirds amendment to the Land Traffic Act, which would have allowed owners to unilaterally raise land leases to land users. Yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture, the pro-government majority of the committee is unanimous opposition support In addition to the series of subjects, you have included the amendment of the Civil Code that crawls back through the window and tries again to make farmers impossible and embarrass themselves by representing the interests of landowners against farmers. They don't have any statements that prove to be true about the operation. We've already agreed on targets that's completely wrong. We're basically talking about the execution, and they're also failing, and they can't show anything from their earlier statements of fact. The question is, is there a person responsible for this? Will there ever be a time when Sándor Fazekas, the minister responsible for the subject, was able to carry out this high-value privatisation in such a way that, in violation of all previous government promises, he was inaccessible to foreigners, capitalists and friends, he cheated the state land. That's what I'm looking for. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, István Nagy, State Secretary, wishes to answer. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-01-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, There's a lot of manure to cover, you said. You're absolutely right: just the fields, because that's where it's needed. [[9.40]] I think the biggest dead end of the LMP is precisely that it wants to cause a scandal where it does show off where it shouldn't be. Because the manure is very needed, he sensed it, but not where he put it, the asphalt, but exactly in the fields - this is a huge difference. And, you know, my dear fellow Member, when farmers understand something, that's exactly what they see. [[Sallai R. Benedict: We agree.]] That's exactly what you see, because when you leave, admit it, you're completely lonely on these missions. There is no economic social support, because wherever we are, farmers everywhere want to see how they can get it, when they can buy it, when they write it, and under what conditions they can get it. On the other hand, what you claim is that this is not necessary, it is completely harmful to farmers, they simply do not understand, and they are exactly like asphalt-covered manure that it is not in the right place. The little ones don't stand a chance - and then let's look at these statements about what's true and what's not, and then let's see how the lame dog's case goes with reality. The truth is, it's really worth examining everything the LMP says. He started by saying the little ones didn't stand a chance. How did the government begin this task? The conclusion is drawn precisely from the fact that we have found that there is a huge overlogged area of less than three hectares. Farmers need more than just multiple applications for the areas they can win. So there's a need to take this. In order for everyone to have equal opportunities for this, this is ensured by the source of credit that we put behind it. It is such an impossible position when they say that here they only give to the greats and who can withdraw 150 million forints! There's no mention of anyone [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] You have to pull 156 million forints out of the pillow pants. It's about going to the bank, asking for a loan, then going to bid and raising the board without further ado. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Whose money?]] 1.95 per cent [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What's cheaper than credit, tell me. ? There is no good economic investment that can be made at 1.95 percent interest. Yeah, 10 percent, or 20 percent if you're not a tenant. [[Zoltán Grimlock: But none wants...]] But I ask you, my dear fellow Member, who works, who farm, can take out these few million forints without further ado. In fact, you can take out any bank with a discounted 2-2.5 percent discount on this part. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And the truth, my dear fellow Member, is that it is in vain to say that it can't be done this way. What you've just given me is, I have to say, if someone could buy 100 hectares, where is the master? 'Cause then he's got barely any land in his name. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] He would like to establish that he will be able to work as a suitable farmer. He says that the auction should be transparent and public. My dear fellow Member, Yeah! And that's a completely fake setup again, and I could safely say that someone who goes to the auction doesn't know or get any data. My dear fellow Member, Who has a place there, local farmers, and farmers in at least 20 kilometers, there is no such thing as not knowing each other. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] You're absolutely right that if you go there, you can't know him because he doesn't belong there, even though you wanted to be a farmer, you want to farm. And all the vehemence you're coming up with, I get that. The duality is that, as a politician, he now believes that his party's position is to prevent farmers. But if someone can have a split consciousness, [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] In this story, exactly you, who wanted to apply, applied for public areas and even protected areas. [[Sallai R. Benedict keeps interrupting.]] wanted to buy in these areas. And there he is, you know, a chance for his life to shop, and he's thinking about whether his master or his political identity should prevail. I sincerely suggest, my fellow Member, that you buy with a calm heart, because you and your children will be able to have an opportunity to live in the long term, not with swings, political careers, but as an established farmer. I wish you all the best of luck with that. Believe me, you'll have a much calmer, much more balanced life if you choose it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And on the record, all I want to say to you is, [[Sallai R. Benedek to the president.]] when you have to look farmers in the eye, believe that the pro-government representatives [[The president's ringing again.]] You can look at me with a much calmer look than you will. Thank you very much. [[Novák Előd: An old country traitor! Zoltán Haughty interrupts. Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-01-16	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, My proud fellow Member, if I may, the Parliament will continue its work. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yes, Mr President.]] Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech: a peak of the Paris climate - we need to act on the title of humanity's survival and the protection of our planet. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, A few days after the bloody terrorist attacks, the world is looking back at Paris. Yesterday, the 21st UN climate conference started, where 195 countries' delegations sat down at the negotiating tables. The aim was to conclude a global agreement in compliance with which to reverse the climate change since the industrial revolution, or at least to reduce its accelerating pace. We need an agreement that applies to both developed and developing countries, which is sufficiently ambitious and fair. Climate change is not only a problem for future generations, but also ours, because we are increasingly feeling its negative effects. The increasing heat waves are testing both our human body and our living and lifeless built environment. Due to exceptional weather phenomena, external conditions for agricultural work are difficult and significant crop losses must also be prepared. Hungary is particularly affected by these effects. It is enough to recall that the water level of the Danube has already exceeded 8 meters four times in the last ten years. This was never the case before 1945. We were only able to overcome the emergency by collaborating at national level, by trying to protect our financial resources and by tapping our resources. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has already demonstrated its commitment to the fight against climate change in recent decades, in which we have achieved and have suffered significant results. Building energy programmes and the expansion of energy and material-saving production technologies have significantly reduced the greenhouse gas emissions of our country. However, it should also be borne in mind that the traditional heavy industry and agricultural production also collapsed, resulting in the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. Hungary therefore paid a high price for reducing the emissions of these harmful gases by more than 40 per cent, while the global increase was 56 per cent. Dear Parliament, It should also be borne in mind that the use of resources extracted from the natural environment does not reflect the spatial and temporal distribution of mankind in order to increase the economic growth of the few. In areas without food and water, geopolitical conflicts have developed, and Europe and Hungary cannot be immune from the negative consequences of this. This is also warned by increasing migratory pressure in our direction. Rapid changes therefore raise security policy issues, to which an effective response can be provided through the development of a comprehensive framework for preparation and adaptation. The problem is global in nature, but its negative effects are local. Emissions-oriented prevention is therefore not enough, and we also need to adapt to changing climate conditions. By 2030, Hungary has undertaken a 40% reduction in emissions in the framework of the international agreement that is now being developed. At the same time, however, we must also plan a framework for successful adaptation in such a way that we can replace a significant part of the hundreds of thousands of jobs lost. Dear Parliament, Once again, we look at Paris, but let us not forget the most important task for our national survival, which can only be prevented and, at the same time, prepared for the inevitable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.50]]
u2015-12-01-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Ákos Kara wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-01-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Since the turn of the millennium, we can feel the signs of nature on our own - he said yesterday, among other things, in President János Áder's speech in France. Hungary has been calling for and supporting the development of a new, global, legally-enhancing agreement that could guide the management of climate change for the next decades, helping to promote sustainable development. Hungary is therefore represented at the highest level at the Paris climate conference, as we all know, the delegation is led by President János Áder, who spoke yesterday. To sum up, I would just like to say that you have drawn attention to the importance of joint action. I also inform the Hungarian Parliament that the professional leadership of the Hungarian delegation is provided by András Aradszki State Secretary for Energy. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Hungarian position, the adoption of a dynamic, fair, legally binding, universally binding protocol with a commitment cycle of 5 or 10 years would be justified. An important task is to reach agreement between developed and developing states and to address the issue of proportionate burden-sharing and differentiation. Obviously, the primary effort is to reduce emissions, but also to tackle adaptation due to increasing floods, droughts, extreme weather phenomena. In this respect, Hungary has done well with cooperation in several cases, as Mr President pointed out. On July 3, 2015, Hungary offered HUF 1 billion, or almost USD 4 million, to the Green Climate Fund. The Fund has a prominent role, but funding cannot be a goal in itself, but is one of the means of achieving common aspirations. In order to carry out climate finance tasks, the government initiated Hungary's accession to the Global Green Growth Institute. The contract may be concluded at the Paris Climate Conference. The main objective of the Institute is to support developing and emerging countries in the transition to green economic development models. The first step towards a meaningful new agreement is the planned internationally defined contributions. Indeed, as Mr President said, I would also like to emphasise that the European Union submitted this submission as the second in March, after Switzerland, during its Presidency, which is the undertaking of all Member States, including Hungary. In line with the 2030 climate and energy framework, the submission set a reduction target of at least 40% compared to 1990 emissions. With this, the European Union has made one of the most ambitious commitments, so Hungary has made the most ambitious commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, We also achieved outstanding success and results at the revival assembly of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. At the inaugural meeting of the most prestigious international scientific organization on climate change, he elected a governing body, where Hungary nominated a climate research specialist for a vice-president, who was elected by the delegates. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know, this is the first time a Hungarian professional has been elected to the governing body. The importance of the result is shown by the fact that, in addition to a Russian colleague, only Hungary was able to delegate researchers from the wider region of Central and Eastern Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, "Hungary is a priority in the fight against pollution," said President János Áder recently at a rural event. Many other countries are just dreaming, or, better, planning to significantly reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, until, as Congressman said, with the additions, of course, he said, we managed to reduce this by 40%. The current economic growth, which has been going on for many years, is already taking place in Hungary with modern technologies, thus significantly reducing emissions of pollutants. However, this does not mean - I agree with the President of the Republic - that we do not have anything to do yet. That is why I have just mentioned Hungary's professional and diplomatic activity at yesterday's climate conference in France; we need to achieve commitment and national cooperation on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-01-20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposed amendment of individual laws to the National Tax and Customs Office, as well as on budgetary planning and management, will follow in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/7918. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor first to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-01-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, On 1 January 2011, the National Tax and Customs Office was established by merging the Tax and Financial Control Office and the Customs and Financial Guard. In this way, financial investigator activity has been concentrated in more than 22,000 organisations in the case of State tax authorities, customs authorities and statutory offences. This organisation provides for the management of the state's tax and fiscal revenues, the effectiveness of which is of particular government interest. Based on the 2014 figures, the revenues linked to the appropriations managed by the NAV exceeded HUF 11 000 billion, and the annual revenue realised was almost HUF 300 billion and 2.6 percent higher than the budget appropriations. Although current economic developments naturally affect the development of tax revenues, it is undeniable that the functioning of the tax administration and the proper operation of the tax administration are essential conditions for ensuring budgetary revenue. There are numerous tax and customs activities involved. Among other things, the National Tax and Customs Office records millions of taxable persons within its competence, manages tax and customs accounts, records payment obligations and allocates the required budget support. It operates the reporting and reporting systems and develops the necessary IT background. In 2014, some 22.6 million returns and reporting were received from the State tax authority. The NAV receives and processes the data received and, not least by transmitting them, serves a number of public administrations from pension insurance bodies to the labour authority. In addition, in order to ensure compliance, the State customs authorities shall carry out checks, recover not only the debts they have accumulated but also the requests for recovery of public debts to be recovered under more than 130 items. It carries out customs clearances, issues excise licences, conducts a tax registration procedure or acts as a metal trading authority, or to think only of the last major measure, it operates the EKAER system. The above is not a complete list of the activities of the NAV, but they are capable of reflecting the complexity and diversity of the tasks of the State tax and customs authorities. [[10.00]] The unification of the tax administration, the customs authorities and the investigating authority in pursuit of public financial fraud, i.e. the establishment of the NAV in 2011, has essentially fulfilled its expectations, but the time has come for the government to thoroughly review the internal operation of the body collecting public burdens and carry out the necessary restructuring. Prior to the preparation of the bill before this House, the office was screened by a working group. In several respects and through a number of means, participants in the Ministry and Authority, as well as experts representing the profession and businesses examined the activities of the NAV. The Ministry of Interior collected the opinion of NAV employees on the organisation and work processes through a questionnaire survey. NGM, assisted by the NAV, conducted an international comparison of the organisational features of the tax administration and its various efficiency, efficiency and customer friendship indicators, as well as the best international practices applied to the development of the tax authority. The main findings of the international outlook concerning the organisational structure and the effectiveness of the operation were as follows. Nearly half of the OECD and EU countries have integrated tax and customs offices. In the case of the NAV, the specific costs of tax collection exceed the international average, while on the basis of international data, major expenditure actually helps to reduce the black economy. An example of this is the introduction of online cash registers. The expansion of electronic systems and services also seems to be the main development direction based on the OECD international outlook. One of the main directions for developing customer-centredness is to strengthen the public and consultation. Several tax authorities have implemented significant structural reforms to improve efficiency and customer focus, which have typically resulted in an increase in centralisation. Almost half of the EU countries have tax administration as part of the Ministry. Dear Parliament, In addition, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry conducted a survey of the entrepreneurs' experience and opinion on NAV by consulting 400 leaders of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and one of the large tax advisors provided a picture of the tax authority's opinion by consulting large companies. As a result of the surveys and analyses, it was found that the organisation of the NAV was too fragmented. The tax, customs and criminal fields operate parallelly, with separate central, regional and county management, parallel professional and functional managers. The organisation system of the NAV consists of three levels: county directorates, regional directorates-general and central office. This structure involves the need for additional coordination tasks and additional administration between the Centre and county directorates, at the same time slowing down and distorting the flow of information. The surveys also had a decisive conclusion that the customer-oriented functioning of the NAV should be improved as well as the nature of the service provider. In this respect, the views of both taxpayers and NAV staff were consistent. Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains answers to these questions and solutions to improve efficiency. In carrying out the review analysis, the working group set out the strategic objective of achieving a more efficient organisational model and simplifying the organisation's structure. This proposal shows this government intention for the organisation of the NAV, with the following substantive amendments. 1. The NAV will continue as a central office, but it will also carry out its law enforcement tasks, thus creating the category of central office under the authority of the Minister of National Economy by amending the law. 2. The tasks and powers of the Head of the NAV will be exercised from 1 January 2016 by the State Secretary and Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy. 3. The organisation of the NAV becomes two-tier, with territorial bodies carrying out first-degree tasks and central management, managing and supervising their activities. Integration is achieved in the organisation of tax and customs administrations and the regional organisation level of the NAV will cease. At present there are 7 tax, 7 customs and finance managers and a high-ranking tax and customs directorate, which will cease as a result of the transformation. Currently there are 19-19 county tax and customs directorates, 3-3 metropolitan and 1-1 priority tax and customs directorates. As a result of the merger of tax administrations and customs administrations, the number of directorates is reduced by half. Completing integration is a greater opportunity to exploit synergies than is currently the case. 4. The Board of Appeal will be set up to carry out the second degree of authority, which has so far been the responsibility of the regional DGs which have ceased to exist. The establishment of this pure-profile organisation will, in our belief, give priority to the establishment and maintenance of national uniform administrative activities. As an exceptional remedy, the Minister will act in the supervisory capacity, thirdly in the central administration and fourth degree in the minister's capacity. It is a change compared to the current rules that the Minister will only take supervisory action on his own initiative. 5. For the sake of sound budgetary management, the training institute of the NAV and the Directorate-General for Crime, only as a separate budgetary body and thus as an independent title in the budget, shall cease to exist. At the same time, the NAV will continue to be a chapter in the central budget. 6. DG Crime's law enforcement and investigative duties, the superior organ rules remain unchanged. The previous rules apply in line with the new organisational structure, so that over the Directorate-General of Criminal Affairs the superior body of the law on criminal proceedings, the deputy of the head of the State Tax and Customs Authority responsible for the law enforcement and investigative tasks of the NAV. It is further guaranteed that the designated minister and the head of the State Tax and Customs Authority shall not instruct the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Criminal Affairs in a specific case in the performance of NAV's law enforcement and investigative functions. 7. It is part of the proposal to amend a number of other laws concerning the restructuring of the NAV, by clarifying the provisions relating to the former administration of the State tax authority, the State tax and customs authorities and the former administration of the NAV. Finally, 8 will continue to regulate the designation, powers and competence of certain territorial bodies of the NAV according to the current regulatory regime. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In addition to the rules on the transformation of the National Tax and Customs Office, the bill also includes changes to budget planning and management. On the basis of the bill, Article XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants The rules on the levels of payments of civil servants are laid down in law. [[10.10]] On the basis of the amendment, the number of payments increases from 14 to 17 and the salary advance also becomes available for civil servants who spend a long time on the track. The bill will also clarify the extension of the Treasury monitoring system in relation to the fulfilment of EU legal obligations. In order to enable the Treasury monitoring system to fulfil its function and to enforce the cumulation rules contained in EU legislation, it is necessary that de minimis aid granted by local authorities is also notified to the Treasury. For the notification, local authorities will be given the time to prepare until 29 February 2016 by notifying their support decisions on 1 January 2016 and thereafter. In this context, the bill sets out uniform rules for benefits granted in any form, without consideration, from the central or municipal sub-scheme of public finances. The amendment introduces the concept of State aid and budget support in line with the data content of the Treasury monitoring system. Common rules on this are laid down in a uniform manner for both subsystems of public finances, in line with the specificities of the grant relationship. The bill therefore serves both the transparency of the subsidies granted in the general government subsystem and the standardisation of regulation, but leaves a wide margin for supporters to develop the aid scheme in the light of the specific nature of the activity they intend to support. In addition, the proposal includes an amendment to the Public Health Product Tax Act. By means of the legislation in force from 2016, taxable persons may reduce the amount of tax payable, the public health product tax, by 10 percent, with their costs for their health-related programmes. Dear Parliament, Based on a wide-ranging consultation, the proposal provides a solution for the transformation of the tax and customs organisation, which is of major importance for the country's public finances, thus ending the integration of tax and customs industries, and the establishment of a tax body that is compatible with the European models, as well as proposals to be supported in terms of public finances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-22	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the presentation. I have exercised my presidential authority in view of the importance of the subject in determining the time. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2015-12-01-23	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee yesterday on the individual house regulations 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution 62. T/7918 on the modification of the National Tax and Customs Office and amending it in relation to budgetary planning and management under an exceptional procedure (paragraph 1) and the amendments submitted to it. The Committee presented an amendment and a summary report with 23 yes and 8 no. The summarised amendment only introduces technical amendments to the proposal submitted. I wish to give my speech as the lead speaker of Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If I want to sum up the content of the law in one word - similar thoughts were expressed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee - András Tállai will transform the tax administration into himself. One of the main criticisms at the committee meeting was that, and I would like to point out, in particular, that they intend to adopt it within 24 hours of the beginning of the hearing, i.e. to hold a final vote on a law of this importance. I think that this is at least unprecedented in this cycle, if you look at the previous cycle, then, of course, it fits into the line, there we have seen many of these, even a constitutional modification proposal, which passed within 24 hours, so that day's submission and that day's vote. I think that this should not be the case in a bill of this magnitude, and we resent it now, and we also resented it at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Another point that should be highlighted here at the beginning is that the law introduces a hybrid system completely alien to Hungarian administrative traditions and systems, practically creating a mixture of government offices and central offices. There are elements that are similar to this, there are elements that are similar to the other. The government does not control - and this is perhaps the most important thing that is happening - but controls the tax administration, but the Minister cannot instruct his Secretary of State on this subject. I think that this is a typical iron ring solution, and it was once again only for the purpose, Mr Secretary of State, that this authority could practically be led by you, because if anyone else had been appointed to lead it, this problem would not have come up. The other is that, again, something a little further away from the government is now getting closer to the government, because so far, the government has only supervised the work of the tax administration, and now, as I said, it will control it. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the right of free organization of the government has been raised, and you always ask the opposition why you dare to interfere with what you are doing. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, because when you were constitutional, when you drafted the fundamental laws, you referred this authority to the Parliament. They could have decided with their two-thirds mandate to transfer this to government powers, otherwise in a manner similar to that of other European countries. That is not what you have done, but your parliamentary powers have referred to it, and if you have chosen to do so during your one-party constitution, which the opposition parties have not had a say in, then bear the consequences of this, then indeed comply with your own laws and do not criticize them. When the opposition expresses its critical comments on organisation in Parliament, it should be noted, not to criticize it in a way that is not content, but basically asking why we are involved in this. Because that's what the law says, that the Parliament will discuss these proposals. What was still a criticism, and I think is perhaps one of the most serious problems: the NAV is also an armed body, a investigative body, and it does not only perform tax administration tasks, which, in the state of law, is the commanding officer of the armed forces, and not the political leader. Politics is used to oversee these organizations, not to control them. This was also said at the Legislative Committee meeting, and we maintain that this method was typical of the past system when, let's say, the Ministry of the Interior controlled the police, not the national police commissioner. This is also a hybrid solution, and you will be able to direct one of the directors or director-general - I do not know how the system will develop - who will be responsible for the tax administration, and you will not be able to direct the other, although we read from the law that, yes, you can order, Mr Secretary of State. Or, if you'd like to mark the passages that say that you can't direct the Director-General of Crime to anything, that is, let me put it this way that you don't control the work of the Director-General of Crime, but just supervise it. [[10.20]] This is what I would like you to indicate from which place you bought this. We may have missed certain things, since we have to give an opinion on this law in a few hours, to give an opinion, until the vote. It would have been much better, Mr Secretary of State, if they had put it there - if they had done this transformation - the powers of the armed and investigative forces, where it belongs, back to the police. It's an old argument between us, really. The first Orbán government created the tax detectives, which - thank God - was restored for eight years and the authority was restored to the police. You have now reversed it again, but in this structure, honourable Secretary of State, it will work in a very amazing way, I think, not in a state of law. If they had already decided to do so, it would have been at least enough profit to put that power back to the police. Finally, I would also like to talk about data protection concerns. I do not know whether the president of NAIH has given his opinion on this draft, because we have not heard anything about it; it would be good if Mr Secretary of State had something to say about it. Because the fact that the tax secrets go directly to the government, not indirectly, only through the NAV, I think this could raise data protection issues. I would very much like to hear the position of NAIH on this subject. And finally, I can say that even your president of the NAV who has resigned because of corruption said that the interests of the budget and the functioning of the organisation are threatened by regulation in this direction. Dear Secretary of State, In the end, that is the point: what is the point of this happening? It is not what you have read, it is not organizational restructuring; it is simply to be president of the NAV, while maintaining the mandate of its representatives and secretary of state. Well, that's a shame to transform it. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-01-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-01-27	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will start with what Congressman Bárándy has concluded: Fidesz does not wish to restrict or even support the free organisation of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, The most important leg of each budget is revenue. It is important for the functioning of the State and for the fulfilment of its public tasks that central revenue is entered into the central budget to the extent envisaged. In order to make tax collection as effective as possible, it became necessary to transform the National Tax and Customs Office. The purpose of the bill before us is therefore to bring about tax collection with a faster tax authority with a simpler organisational structure. Currently, the NAV is a central budgetary body, which forms an independent chapter in the central budget, in terms of its management powers. The Head of Individual Responsibility shall be the President appointed by the Prime Minister. The NAV is supervised by the Minister appointed by the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Economy responsible for tax policy. The activity of the NAV is organised around three professional branches: tax administration, customs administration and criminal activity. The NAV carries out its official duties through its central, middle and lower bodies, resulting in a three-level organisational scheme, which also reflects the authority powers that can be exercised at each organisational level, as well as the redress system and the management oversight system. According to the motion tabled now, next year the NAV will be transformed from a three-level government office into a two-tier central office. At the top level there will be so-called central management, which will be at the level of control and at the lower level will be county directorates with direct links to citizens and businesses. The office's seven regional directorates will be terminated; the staff of these units will primarily assist the departments and the NAV in their central management work. The merger of county customs and tax directories will also make the procedure easier at board level. The new organisational structure will guarantee faster administration and uniform interpretation of the law. In order to ensure full enforcement of taxpayers' rights, it is necessary to give priority to remedies. From 2016, the requests of the public and businesses will be evaluated by experts from the Board of Appeal. The NAV will be managed by the Minister of State and four Deputy State Secretarys for Economic Affairs. A number of OECD and EU Member States also apply the tax office structure in the Ministry. According to expert studies, this type of structure can also bring serious success in treating the taxpayer as a customer and improving the implementation indicator in two areas that the government intends to develop. In addition, the integration of the management of the NAV into the Ministry of National Economy will give priority to the face of the tax office service provider over so far. It is important to point out that the changes outlined above were preceded by major planning work, since the Ministry of National Economy set up a separate working group to evaluate the activities of the NAV. The working group was attended by representatives of NGM, Ministry of Interior, NAV, consulting companies, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and tax consultancy companies. The Ministry of the Interior collected the opinion of the entire staff of the NAV, the managers and their subordinates on the organisation and the workflow through a questionnaire survey. NGM, with the cooperation of the NAV, has made an international comparison of the organisational features of tax administrations and their different efficiency, efficiency and customer-friendly indicators, as well as the best international practices applied to the development of tax administrations. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry conducted a survey of the entrepreneurs' experiences and opinions on NAV by consulting 400 leaders of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The tax consultancy company provided an image of the tax authority's opinion based on the questionnaire survey of large companies. The most important findings of the review. The NAV's organization is too fragmented. The organisation system is divided into fields of expertise, parallel to tax and customs, criminal fields, with separate central regional and county management, parallel professional and functional managers. There are parallels in the operation, and the flow of information may interfere. The organisation system of the NAV consists of three levels of county directorates, regional directorates-general and central office. This structure involves the need for an additional coordination task and an additional administration between the Centre and the county directorates. This also slows down and distorts the flow of information. The nature and customer orientation of the NAV service provider need to be improved. Both taxpayers and NAV employees see the need to improve the customer-orientation and service character of NAV. They are part of the bill: 1. Amendment to the 2010 Act on Central Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys. The NAV will continue as a central office, but it will also carry out the NAV's law enforcement tasks, so that the law will change the category of the central office established by the law, which will carry out armed law enforcement tasks and over which the management will be exercised by the Minister. The new concept model of management should also provide that the Act establishing the central office confers on the State Secretary the tasks and powers relating to the management of the central office. [[10.30]] 2. Amendment of the National Tax and Customs Office Act. Following the transformation of the NAV into a special central office and the regulation of the new model for governance and management, the primary task is to amend the 2010 Act on NAV. The amendment basically means a change in organisational rules. The amendment does not substantially affect the special legal status of employees, the rights and obligations of professional finance officers carrying out law enforcement tasks, as well as the rules on coercive measures which they may apply, only in so far as the amendment of the provisions on organisational management and the designation of bodies makes it necessary. 3. Other amendments to the law relating to the change of the National Tax and Customs Office's organisation. The next element of the legislative amendments is the amendment of other laws relating to the organisation of the NAV, which include provisions relating to the former administration and regime of the State tax authority, the State tax and customs authorities of the former separate organisation, and the former presidential administration and system of the NAV. 4. It provides for amendments to the Public Finance Act 2010 and to certain related laws. For 2016 the Act XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants The rules on the grades of public servants have been laid down in law. Under the provision, the number of payments increases from 14 to 17. The amendments will allow the salary to be provided for a period of extended employment as a result of an increase in the retirement age, as well as the careers already in force, which are already counting on the rising retirement age, such as the careers of teachers or professional staff. 5. CIII of 2010 on the Public Health Product Tax Amendment of the Act introducing a new tax relief. It allows for the reduction of the amount of the public health product tax payable by the taxable person for his social responsibility programmes on health matters, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the otherwise payable tax. This measure improves the income position of neta subjects, while at the same time being in line with the objective of the tax. Dear House, Overall, the Fidesz fraction welcomes and supports any transformation that improves the efficiency of tax collection, simplifies the administrative burden on taxpayers and reduces bureaucracy. This proposal is like this, and the need for transformation has not been asked for so far. I hope that the budgetary position will improve with the measures to be taken and will help to strengthen the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-12-01-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, What do you mean, no one asked for a transformation? Perhaps not within the Fidesz fraction, but I will quote the former head of the tax administration, Ildikó Vida, who, for example, is one of those who made this transition and even criticized it. But let's start at the beginning. You will vote on this bill in an exceptional procedure today, a few hours after it has been submitted to Parliament. This is quite simply unprecedented. Not in your practice, but in Europe in general. The fact that such a far-reaching change, which means nothing less than that Hungary will, in a few days' time, take direct political control of the tax authority, if the law enters into force, you will have it discussed with Parliament in a few hours and decide on it. It's quite simply scandalous. It is an old principle in law and, in fact, in democratic communication, the principle of listening to the other party. You have changed this practice. Your lead voice is to be silenced by the other party. The only purpose of this exceptional procedure is to have as little as possible in the Hungarian Parliament and, generally, in Hungarian public speaking, in the public opinion, to talk about this shameful decision that you are about to make. This is the sole purpose and reason for the negotiation of an exceptional procedure. You don't really think that we believe that this bill was drafted the day before yesterday, when the tax authority hasn't been in charge for months, they've been giving the public a series of articles and statements about what they're up to for a long time? No one believes you that the draft legislation itself would not have been completed several months ago. But it wasn't filed until yesterday. There is only one reason for this haste to make a decision about it today: the less we talk about this scandal. Now, let's get back to Vida Ildikó's resignation, as we speak. I quote from the letter Ildikó Vida wrote to his former colleagues. My resignation was driven by the continuing struggles of the last five years, the government's ideas on the basis of the organization and staff of the NAV, and the rejection of our proposal for a NAV career. At the same time, in mid-April, I was deeply shocked by the government's ideas about the conversion of the NAV and its personnel, as no one asked NAV, our organisation, its structure, its effectiveness, and the individual work processes were not studied. The implementation of any of the ideas I know of, as they threaten the interests of the budget and the functioning of the organisation, is unsuitable on my part. "The former head of the tax administration," wrote. Which means one thing: Ildikó Vida still has a conscience, unlike you, honourable government representatives, who have unscrupulously submitted this bill and are preparing to vote today. Dear House, This bill, if it is adopted unchanged by the Parliament - which is what it will do, we have no doubt - means nothing less than putting an armed body, a body with powers to investigate and, where appropriate, to use secret service tools. In the case of unprecedented European democracies, such an organisation should operate under direct political direction. By the way, the conditions are illustrated in an article yesterday. Apparently, it doesn't belong here because it's a tiny little mess. The staff of one of the Internet portals posed as part of a series of photos in Péter Szijjártó's dungeon jacket and tie. This would not be relevant if it had not been mentioned in the article that the individual who bought the jacket did not want to make his identity known, and he did not want his identity to be known precisely because he feared that NAV would be subject to ongoing harassment by the tax authority. Ladies and Gentlemen, We live in such a country, you have turned Hungary into such a country, when people have to hide their political opinions, to be more precise, if they do not hide their opinions, but at least they have to hide their identity, because they can imagine without further ado, otherwise without precedent, that anyone who does not like the government for political or business reasons is sent to the tax authority in the first place to feel the concern. A number of articles have been published in recent years about the fact that if the State needs an asset, but the party is reluctant to sell it, then that, no, as a matter of magical shock, the employees of the tax authority are there every day and are looking at it until they finally realize that it will be better to sell it. There was a series of articles about the fact that anyone who, in some way, is uncomfortable with your governance, should expect the same series of atrocities. This is quite simply unparalleled, scandalous and intolerable. By the way, the fact that the tax authorities are being transformed, in such a way that as few people have splinters in their eyes, at least in your eyes, is not without precedent. Moreover, the political restructuring started almost three years ago when, with effect from 1 January 2013, the NAV elite team, the Tax Director of Major Cases, was terminated with a government decree. This organisation of almost 400 people at one time specializes in the fight against national and foreign corporate networks, billion-dollar tax fraud mafia groups. [[10.40]] You have decided that this organisation is not necessary. Why? Within a few months, there were more scandalous revelations than scandal, and it turned out that the internal practice of the NAV was far from uniform. If someone is nice to Fidesz, you can do your job, say I'm talking about Andy Vajna, not expecting any special damage from the tax authority, but if someone is uncomfortable to you, there will be a lot of checks in the near future. As early as spring 2014, the documents not only demonstrated that some of the NAV leaders had stopped investigations, but also in particular that the Director-General for Priority Affairs and Taxation had actually prevented detection in certain VAT fraud cases. By the way, an example of discrimination is that small entrepreneurs are obliged to use online cash registers, they are strictly controlled, but, as I mentioned earlier, the same obligation does not cover Andy Vajna's billionaire businesses. It is clear that the state is expanding under your government, and after the memorable ban scandal was specifically caused by the fact that the tax authority, let alone does not fight corruption, but explicitly covers these matters, you are now putting a law on the Parliament's table in which the remaining independence of such an organization will cease to exist and will be under direct political control. From now on, a Fidesz Member of Parliament can direct all political ulterior motives to the employees of the tax authority, and a Fidesz Member of Parliament can now look into any of our tax secrets. That's what we think is scandalous. Dear House, The Secretary of State has made several statements recently. From these statements we learned about the following. And in the person of the Secretary of State, we can welcome the future head of the tax administration here, within the walls of the Parliament, because it is an open secret that he will be the political leader of the new organization set up by law. For example, we learned from the Secretary of State that taxation should be done in Hungarian, which is undoubtedly an accurate and clever statement, as if indicating his readiness on the subject, and when he asked for his language skills, he replied that he could not play the violin anyway. This is certainly also an accurate and important point, and I am in the same position as the Secretary of State in this area: I cannot play the violin either, but I do not wish to apply for the chair of the head of the NAV. But one thing we know for sure about the future head of the IRS is that he's good at paintings. You recognize with an infallible sense that if you are in a painting with Viktor Orbán in the company of Öcsi Puskás, then this painting [[Dr. János Harghitai: This is really part of the law tabled!]] What's the value? Well, it's worth so much that for the first time a stadium is given to a city that once had a mayor, now you get a tax authority for Christmas. This is undoubtedly an excellent way of recognizing the situation. But allow us to have higher professional expectations about the future head of the tax administration. No offense, Mr. Secretary, but I myself feel the same way as many in this country: I would not buy a used car from you. Don't take this personally. To sum up, in scandalous circumstances, the Parliament will now adopt a scandalous law. The consequence of this law will be that one of the Members of the Parliament of Fidesz, by the way, may give direct political direction in the position of State Secretary. More than 2,000 additional professionals will be sent along with the previous 400 experts. However, we believe that corruption must be reduced within the tax authorities, not in numbers. Well, that's what you seem to be consistently unwilling to do. Therefore, this law is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-01-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-12-01-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think, listening to the opposition speaker, Sándor Burány - and listening carefully to the ten or a few minutes he spoke - that if only these excuses against the law, we can have a calm conscience. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Jesus!]] Because the key word in his sentences was that there were no scandalous, but no substantive statements. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You didn't pay attention then!]] It's just everything's scandalous. He wants the public to believe that the whole thing is tailored to the person of András Tállai, and that there is nothing else that matters here. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because it is! Ádám Mirkóczki: Party independent!]] There is no citizen following us on television who buys these nonsense at the level of such generalities. The voters and those who watch the work of the National Assembly have also observed the Expo. The Secretary of State began by painting, describing the current tax authority, the 22,000 people who work in this organization and doing their job fairly. From the point of view of the budget, it will certainly produce budget revenues for many years, and even the European Union can look at the Hungarian NAV, the Tax and Customs Office, to deliver revenue resources safely to the European Union budget, as the vast majority of customs revenue enriches the EU budget. There is no irresponsible and foolish government that would want to transform an organization that is well-functioning in terms of revenue collection to destroy that organization, adapt it to one person, and therefore endanger the operation of the organization. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And yet there is!]] The other thing that keeps popping up is the tension of the rule of law. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I know you don't care about that ever!]] It is scandalous to draw the tax office closer to the government; to the government, which is responsible for administration under the old constitution and under the current Fundamental Law, is the director of the administration. Compared to the fact that there's a government office or a central office closer to the government itself, it's not a constitutional issue, we all know that. But such bombastic statements can be said that now again constitutional endangerment [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No one said that!]] There's a question on the table. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Nobody said anything!]] No, honourable voters, there is obviously no such thing; constitutional concerns are not raised by this law in any way. Let's talk about the substance of the law, because so far, apart from the expo and the lead speaker of Fidesz, there has been no attempt by the socialist lead speaker. There are two fundamental laws in this proposal. The first law concerns central government administrations and the status of members of the government and the State Secretarys, and the other key law is the National Tax and Customs Office Act itself. Since these are laws, the Parliament is the law, so I am obviously right in this regard to Congressman Barándy, the question is whether the opposition is talking about these matters, it is not even a question. Of course he's talking about it, because we're making a law. Of course, it is also true that the government has a great freedom of organisation in a rule of law, which is generally recognised by the opposition and socialist representatives when it forms its own administrative bodies. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Right now!]] You have to see them both together. Where there are legislative powers involved in the formation of organisations, the position of Parliament and the opposition is clearly cardinal, and the opposition can influence this legislation in its own opinion, if it says substantive things, not what Congressman Burány said. It is also important politically to anecdote. As long as Ildikó Vida was in office, we didn't like him very much when Ildikó Vida was not in office, then his speeches would serve in your argument in a sense. It's okay, it's a genre of politics. It's just that there's so much substantive connection to the bill that's being submitted. [[10.50]] Let's see if this law fits into the thinking that the government is already doing in other areas about the transformation of its own administration. I'll give you an area. We have found that where there is an important organization away from the government, it does not necessarily work well. I think the best example is the use of development money. We have brought the acquisition of development resources much closer to the government. The managing authorities have been integrated into the Ministry system and the National Development Agency has been dismantled. The result is that this organisation, which is linked to the government, operates more effectively, as we will be able to draw the fullness of EU funds by the end of 2015 in the EU budget cycle that has already been completed. This is a result and an example of how bringing the government closer to the government is able to operate more effectively. Another example I'm going to bring up is that the government has broken the administration on a territorial level. I'm referring to the system of government offices here. We inherited from you an almost inoperable system of territorial administration, the government has made order in this, created the bodies of the unified territorial administration, the government offices, and those who know the operation of government offices can confirm my claim at any time that the government administration system works more effectively than the fragmented administration system that you have run before it. The separation of the tasks of district administration established within government offices and of this administrative area from the local government world meant a more transparent organisation. It can mean a more client-friendly organization that clients know, and if clients see through it, they have confidence in an organization. This is the step taken by the government in the area of tax administration and customs administration. The government doesn't invent Spanish wax now. Mr Secretary of State said that in 2011, the first and most important step in integration between the tax area and the customs territory was already taken when the NAVs were created instead of the former VPOP and the APEH. An additional important step is now taking place when you want to simplify the very fragmented structure with which this organisation has been operating. And how does the government touch this law, this system? Mr Secretary of State said that, among other things, the workers in the organisation were asked for their views, that expert materials were produced, and that, based on the workers' signals and the material of the experts, it was clear that this fragmentation - as this organisation worked, but I add, it was able to provide resources effectively for the budget - could be changed. What was the nature of the organization so far? The NAV functioned as a government office managed by the Minister, founded by the Prime Minister, and really combined the activities of three disciplines: taxation, customs and criminal administration. This fragmentation was also seen from the bottom up in the organization, because there were regional directorates and county units outside the central control units. This fragmentation has also appeared in supervision, control and redress systems. The consequence of this is that the organisation's operation has often not shown legal consistency: it has been characterised by prolonged procedures, a multitude of lawsuits and that decisions in the management system have been taken in the opposite way. In this way, the government wants to clean up in some way by simplifying this organisation, and Mr Tállai, State Secretary, has also said that, according to the practices of the European Union and many countries, this is the case in about half of the countries of the Union, but this practice is also known in the major parts of the OECD countries - this organisation will grow into the ministry. This is the practice we want to introduce. This in itself is not a matter of the rule of law. I started my argument by saying that the management of the entire administration is a government function. In the new system, a central office will be established instead of a government office, which will be established by law, and this central office will be composed of a central management unit and county units at regional level in the future. In the case of county changes, the integration that can finally be established there between the tax administration and the customs administration is very important. This is the kind of thinking that is related to the operation of government offices, when, until then, in a fragmented county administration space, the government established a single organization, government offices. This is now happening in another very important area of taxation and customs. I think that these organisational changes are a good chance for an organisation to operate in a more customer-friendly way. What makes an APEH customer-friendly? As a Member of Parliament, I obviously don't think of such nonsense that the old Apeh, sorry the old NAV didn't like customers, and the new NAV will love customers very much. The point is that the client's affairs should be dealt with in a transparent way, with short deadlines, and the client should not be an enemy in the eyes of the administration, but a partner. The rule that we have to pay taxes is obviously we cannot and do not want to override it, because it is in our interest, because we have to generate revenue. But it doesn't matter that we produce revenues as a result of endless procedures, customers, individuals or businesses feel that this organization is taking the right decisions - at the level of anecdotes - or in a transparent system, with a short deadline. I remind you here, ladies and gentlemen, and also the public that what we are discussing is at odds with what we have already adopted, because we have recently also amended the Tax Code, and in this area, among other things, we have taken such important decisions as to reduce procedural deadlines in this administrative area - the general procedural deadline is 30 days - that we are making discrimination between taxpayers and taxpayers, and that good taxpayers - and these are very large majority - will be preferred, to be a good taxpayer, and to treat those who are constantly a problem for the organisation because they do not comply with their tax obligations, whether they are individuals or legal persons. So it is appropriate to see the two laws, the law already passed and the law to be negotiated together, and to read out the view from these laws that we are transforming, standardising and subdiving an administrative organization because we think that customers should finance a cheaper organisation, because obviously customers, taxpayers, finance administration and thus NAV. So we need to maintain and support a cheaper organisation, a less bureaucratic organisation, which will be able to operate in a customer-friendly manner, because it will be able to perform its tasks in a transparent manner and with shorter deadlines. I would also like to talk about one more thing, which opposition representatives are very fondly collapsing when they like to put together management, leadership and individual cases. This law discusses for a long time how management and driving licenses differ in this organization. Management belongs to the minister, who exercises control in one way, by establishing the organisational and operational regulations. About this is the Minister's right to manage. Opativity, linked to leadership, is the task of the Secretary of State. In the future, it will not be the Fidesz representative who will have the opportunity to move this organization, but it will be the duty of the Secretary of State of the Government. This is the case in every rule of law, Congressman. So the Secretary of State will run this organization, but the Secretary of State won't be smearing individual matters either. These questions were also identified in the expoze, and are clearly defined in the law. Therefore, I think that, not only does this draft law raise constitutional concerns, but we have a good chance of adopting a law that creates a more effective administrative organisation, and that is why it is becoming more customer-friendly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[11.00]]
u2015-12-01-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The current bill, which concerns the amendment of the National Tax and Customs Office, is perhaps the best figure, the time interval, which means one day. If this nearly one day is available for negotiation and acceptance... - which is perhaps also a symbol of the bill itself because it shows its attitude to the government and otherwise does not take away its broad right to organization, but shows the government's attitude to transform the NAV through force and the. In essence, they can quickly transfer almost everything on a basis, i.e. a fundamental change to the foundations, to the roots, which basically invents not the activity of the NAV itself, but the organizational structure of the NAV itself. It's a complete, complete transformation of his system. This one-day deadline and this fundamental transformation, if you will, I think, is contrary to the message, the customer-friendly message that you wish to lend to this bill and to the whole NAV conversion. It is precisely contrary to the fact that, rather, it is a bad message to taxpayers that the government can really do everything in a day, in such a wide society. After all, the NAV is responsible for most of the state revenues, if you will, for the HUF 11 500 billion, so it will be implemented by NAV, so that a large part of the budget, the full re-buttoning and re-scaling of the organization that determines a large part of the state redistribution is now taking place at an extremely fast pace. As I said, perhaps a minor change in a volume, apart from the weight of the paper itself and the number of the 30 legislative proposals, is a minor change in volume, but it is small in size, whereas it is a very serious change to the core values and to the design of the NAV itself, the way the body works. Here it has been said several times that what this is about, what status changes will occur in the organisation of the NAV, so that the structure of the organization will be changed from the previous three levels to two levels, which, by the way, was previously in the status of a government office, is now transformed into the central office under the authority of the Minister for Taxation. Of course, it is undisputed, quite rightly, because in the administration, if you like, in the administrative theory, they should be separated, both management and management will be well separated. However, I would disagree or disagree with my previous KDNP fellow Member that these driving rights, these driving powers, which in this case will be attached to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary... - which, by the way, sounds rather absurd, considering that one of the state's leading politicians and one of the embodiments of state power will now also embody the leadership of the NAV and become the first man of the NAV itself. In this way, not only the person of his representatives, not only the person of the State Secretary, but also the head of the NAV will be subject to increased public interest. Just like Ildikó Vida and his case, but also the case of the current NAV president. Returning to the original idea, I believe that there are, in this management power, the driving rights, the driving tasks, and the duties that make it feel or become so that citizens can feel very strong in this area, not customer friendliness, but politics. Therefore, this may seem a little troubling. In fact, it seems not only perhaps and a little, but also very concerned, that it is in this way that it is reorganizing the National Tax and Customs Office; I do not say that, adapted to the person of András Tállai, I would rather say that it is adapted to the political will, which is not confused with the right of organisation. Because the right of organization is indeed infinite to the government and to the practitioners of state power. But here I think it is not organizational, but rather the political power of the state and the government, and it focuses on organisational change in such a way that it is not for the benefit of the organisation, but for the sake of politics. I think the drop from three levels to two levels can be identified with this. It also means that it will be a central management, a symbol of an expression of central control, means that they want a more serious political focus on the organisation. Of course, Mr Secretary of State will tell you the opposite opinion on this matter. Which, in turn, must come up with a question, such as the question of layoffs. It has been mentioned several times, and it is also the opposite of the view that cuts are expected to be made, with nearly 2,000 staff that the NAV will be able to dispose of. Of the current 22,000 stocks, 2 thousand represents a 10% reduction in stocks. But the opposite trend is that at its peak, at the peak of leadership bureaucracy, rather than cutting down, there seems to be a lot more leaders in the current NAV structure. So there will be an increase in the number of leading bureaucracies. That's two conflicting states. I do not think that this will reduce bureaucracy, as the government has very often emphasised recently, but that bureaucracy is growing at leadership level. The other thing that needs to be touched, and perhaps no one has ever touched it: I am not saying that it is a legal concern, but rather a grotesque one, that the National Tax and Customs Office, as we call it now, is headed by a person who, as a Member of Parliament, has immunity. This immunity will prevent criminal proceedings against him. Practically, he can only be prosecuted after the Parliament's decision. I am not saying that our fellow Member, András Tállai, is preparing for any action. I'm not saying he's got a criminal tendency to commit crimes. I respect that, by the way, he's a law-abiding man who knows the law, and I don't suppose he wants to commit such an act. But in the unexpected event that either he or the incoming secretary of state - by the way, don't give me the god, socialist or left-wing government - will perform this task, who has immunity rights, and will commit a crime for the benefit of the organization or for political purposes or even for private purposes, the accountability and accountability of him as the head of the NAV will always be prevented. What light does it shed on the National Tax and Customs Office if, in any case, it is not possible to initiate proceedings with its criminal leader, because immunity is hindering it, while, let's say now, the NAV, who wants to become more customer-friendly, often makes a pretense to individual taxpayers that they themselves commit crimes and pursues all, and many times more, ordinary taxpayers? What is the social message that there is an objective possibility that a criminal perpetrator or a person under suspicion may not be cleared in criminal proceedings and that, where appropriate, he or she may remain at the head of the NAV, direct and lead an organisation that functions as an armed organisation, whether police or not, but not police? I think it can lead to a lot of ways to be controlled by a person who has immunity. It would have been right to separate that, at the moment that the Secretary of State was astounding at this position and thought of him for this task, and in this he has every opportunity for the government, Mr Secretary of State to resign from his mandate as a representative, and not as a Member, but as a Secretary of State, to carry out this task, with the result that his actions there may result in criminal liability, which is the case in every normal state. In this connection, let me draw your attention to the fact that you are always covered with international examples of the transformation. I've never heard a single international example. I've been trying to find out, and I don't know if, for example, his Majesty's British Customs and Revenue tax office is in this form of management and management. But I'm sure it's not run by a person with immunity. But if we look at Germany, we might not find someone there who has immunity. So these international examples must also be highlighted in this light as to whether such an international precedent exists. I don't think so. But I would also like to hear what they are, and I'm sure the Secretary of State can tell us what are the international examples on which the NAV will switch to the current management and management system, a model of ministerial management and State Secretary-General. It is worth making clear that in my view, it is no longer part of the structure of the NAV, but of the so-called chip tax, i.e. the pass on the public health product tax, whether it is possible or not to go in the direction of giving tax relief to taxable persons who carry out health-care or health-care promotions or activities. [[11.10]] I believe that the objective of the product tax itself, the potato tax, is essentially to remove any such health education from it and to grant it a 10% tax reduction. I think that the fact that a person distributes, manufactures, manufactures and sells all kinds of unhealthy products on the market will not be exempted for them by the fact that they are running a race, perhaps placing healthy advertising spots in the public media or on TV2 or anywhere where advertising surfaces will otherwise be found. And by the way, it may be overpriced, and it may be that the health event itself is overpriced, to say it badly: for tax optimization, and it is possible that this 10% will always be used in such a way that, in essence, the amount of service provided there is 10 percent or the amount that they want to write down is not achieved, and its social result is not at all in line with and in balance with what is the objective to be achieved. So I think that this 10-percent exemption is not a good direction, and it will, by the way, undermine, if you like, the initiative which was the object of the tax on products itself. I mentioned too much bureaucracy at the summit, and I don't want to deal with that. However, it is worth knowing what the timetable for the membership of the boards will be. So whether the current structure involves directorates or whether the Ministry sits or enters these levels, or if it is he who takes these castles, it would also be good to clarify who will be appointed as leaders, who are chosen or who will fill these posts, so what will be the fate of the management set, in other words, beyond the fact that the bureaucracy of management will increase? It would also be good to know, because there is little in the bill about how the Board of Appeal will work, because in relation to this institution - as a guarantor of the interpretation of the law, of the standardization of the case law - I did not find much in the law on administrative proceedings that Ket. how this Board of Appeal can operate or what task it will perform. So this could be a rather fluid situation. To sum up all this, I continue to think that the numbers that characterize it, and in this case, the one day, the 24 hours, and this is the time of the hearing of the bill, this is a crystal clear message to taxpayers, which, I think, may mean not customer friendship, not good transparency, but the realisation of strength, self-serving force and political self-interest. I think there's a serious threat to the way we're dealing with it. Of course, even if we didn't negotiate in one day, I think that, since the law is not two-thirds, Fidesz would have every way to bring through the changes it wants, but we still have to pay attention to what messages are coming about the new or new NAV, because in people, this picture doesn't seem very positive right now. On the one hand, I believe that the method of negotiation was based on a politically desired objective, and I believe that, on this basis, the bill cannot be supported either in this form or in the current vision, either in the interests of the organisation or in the light of the will of the voters or of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-12-01-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that I do not recommend to any party, not even the LMP, that it ever wins the parliamentary elections by a two-thirds majority. We can see very well - the majority of Fidesz-KDNP with a two-thirds win - where this leads. This has led them to be aggressive in the National Assembly, not paying attention, not dealing with the involvement of the opposition in good time and discussions with the professional circles. A law of this importance, like the NAV, is true that they have been preparing it for a long time in a narrow circle, but they will push you into Parliament in 24 hours. We got it yesterday afternoon. I have no idea how you imagine that a 60-page serious law can be studied by Members and their experts and come here with responsible proposals. Congressman Harghitai finds it outrageous that most of our adjectives are the flagrant, and not deeply the professional questions. I ask you, when did you get this bill, when did you learn this bill? Obviously, it wasn't yesterday, it wasn't yesterday afternoon, it was a long time ago. At the very least, such laws would involve the opposition in time and not just in a narrow professional context. This is particularly outrageous because you have refused to carry out any substantive investigation at the NAV since the autumn of 2013. Since the autumn of 2013 at the latest, everyone can know precisely that networked VAT fraud is responsible for stealing Hungarian taxpayers by hundreds of billions of forints a year, and that is why the NAV is primarily responsible. However, the government has done nothing beyond appearance measures to investigate and prevent this. Without a comprehensive investigation, it is not possible to transform the NAV into a barrier to VAT fraud. The transformation we've just submitted is nothing more than that you want to direct the National Tax and Customs Office. The full abolition of the autonomy of the NAV will not increase the efficiency of the tax administration, and it is unlikely that bureaucracy will decrease substantially, but only the risks of corruption will be much higher. There has been a suspicion that VAT fraud networks are able to operate freely because of effective policy support. We have repeatedly initiated a committee of inquiry to investigate this, which you have voted against. The biggest problem of the NAV has been the excessive influence of politics. This has been done only on informal channels, but with this proposal, the government would take this to the official level. We believe that a professionally prepared, independent NAV can only eliminate VAT fraud and improve tax morale, so we cannot support this amendment in any way. We also cannot support the elimination of the regional administrative levels of the NAV. We've seen this story many times in the last year. Because of the government's growing control issues, it centralises everything because it only needs power and influence. Then, in a few months' time, it turns out that the centralised system is not more efficient than it is, but it is not working at all. I would just like to point out, for example, that the KLIK, which controls centralized public education, has just recently turned off the Internet. We believe that the effective operation of the tax administration requires considerable local knowledge, so centralisation requires only further spread of VAT fraud and a deterioration of tax collection efficiency. Overall, what the government is doing to the tax authorities is almost a perfect symbol of the governance of the last five years. An increasing suspicion of corruption, disappearing hundreds of billions, lied investigations, pretense measures, and finally nationalized corruption due to the gang war. However, we should play with the tax authority last, because your government can only work with the money that Hungarian voters pay and what the tax authority collects. The famous green dossier of András Horváth was a demand for Hungary to have a tax administration that citizens maintain in order to pay taxes for common purposes. It is a complete misunderstanding to think that this country is generally anti-tax, that in Hungary the tax moral is what it is, because people see that the corrupt elite from their taxes are enriched, because they see that the authority, whose primary task would be to collect Community funds, is privileged, acting on political orders, is opaque, and there is strong suspicion that it will take its part in maintaining corruption itself. All Hungarian citizens are rightly fed up with this, and if the government does not see this, it is not only cynical but irresponsible, because in the longer term it is undermining a shared responsibility for common goals. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-01-36	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As an independent Member is not in the Chamber, they are obviously indicating that they do not wish to comment on the agenda. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] Since no one wants to take advantage of this, the consolidated debate is closed. [[11.20]] I'll ask Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-12-01-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, of course, like to respond to some of the questions. Firstly, with regard to international examples, I would like to demonstrate that the system that we want to establish here in Hungary with this bill is in place in several countries of the European Union. So allow me to mention some countries. For example, the Danish tax office is managed by the Danish Ministry of Taxation as part of a group of tax institutions. The budget belongs to the chapter of the Ministry of Taxation, so it is not clearly separated, the budget is part of the Ministry's budget. Tax legislation, as in Hungary, is governed by an assistant State Secretary in the government system. In the Netherlands, the tax office is managed by the Dutch Ministry of Finance as part of the General Directorate for Taxation and Customs Administration. So, in the Netherlands, the tax office is part of the Dutch Ministry of Finance and is obviously responsible and accountable to the Minister. It is managed by the Directorate-General for Taxation. The regulatory and tax administration function will be jointly managed at the level of the agency's organisational directors, as in essence in Hungary, under the control of the Minister, the tax office and tax regulation issues will also be under the control of the Minister. The Slovak tax and customs office is also managed by the Slovak Ministry of Finance. Within the Ministry, the tax and customs section deals with tax legislation separately. The Minister of Finance runs it, as is the case now, as the current law states, the government of the Ministry of National Economy and not only oversees the tax office. The Belgian tax office is managed by the Ministry as part of the Board of Directors, which is part of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The Ministry shall perform management functions for the six directorates of the group and shall coordinate certain staff management functions. So it's completely part of the Ministry. The Portuguese tax office is governed by the Ministry of Finance and is part of the State Secretariat for Taxation. The Portuguese tax office is essentially fully compliant with the planned Hungarian, the regulatory and tax management functions will be jointly managed at the level of the State Secretary. So in Portugal there is this whole set-up, which is now developing in Hungary. In Slovenia, the Slovenian Financial Office plays the role of the tax authority. The Office shall be part of the Ministry of Finance; it shall act as an independent organisation within the Ministry of Finance. In Hungary, the National Tax and Customs Office will not be part of the Ministry of Finance, only the management will take place from the Ministry. And maybe I'd like to give you another example, the Austrian one. There are different sections here. Section 4 deals with tax matters in Austria, which is also part of the Ministry of Finance and does not legally form an independent organisation, so it is part of the Ministry of Finance. So it's completely controlled by the Ministry of Finance. The other question is your tax secret. I would like to tell you that you can still have direct tax secrets, which is legally authorised by the Minister of Finance, the national economy. On the one hand, the NAV Act and, on the other hand, the Act on the Rules of Taxation determine in which cases the Minister can still obtain direct taxes today. By the way, tax secrets are subject to serious legislation and regulations. The unlawful use of it is obviously a criminal offence. I have not heard such a problem in Hungary in recent years. By the way, during the socialists' governance it was exactly the same, the Minister of Finance, even János Veres, could and could get tax secrets, but there was no problem or problem with it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not unlimited!]] And not under any other government. Playing with tax secrets and using them for political purposes, I think, is a crime. All leaders, state leaders, must be aware of this. That is why they are responsible, and that is why they take an oath to be aware of this. The investigative authority will be run by a politician, obviously by someone who didn't have time to read the bill. It's not a crime. Obviously, there will also be time and opportunity to do so after adoption. I would like to quote from it as a guarantee rule that the minister managing the NAV and the head of the state tax authority in the performance of its law enforcement and investigative duties cannot instruct the deputy, therefore the Deputy State Secretary or the Director-General; and since he does not have such a license, therefore neither does he have access to the NAV data management system for law enforcement purposes, nor does he have access to investigative data in the present system. I know that this is an unusual solution, but it is true that the managing secretary of state does not, in essence, obtain investigative data, by law, receive data, because otherwise his superior body is the deputy secretary of state, who, on the other hand, is supervised professionally by the prosecutor's office by the 19th of 1999 on criminal proceedings. Under the law. So it is not true that politicians can control the Directorate-General of Criminal Affairs and the Director-General of Investigation of the Tax Administration, and it is not true that they can obtain any data. I know it's unusual, but the law clearly regulates and states that. I would also like to say that, yes, there is a political will and will for the government, namely that, on the one hand, a more cost-saving, efficient, legal interpretation and case-law, there should be a more uniform tax authority. However, the service provider of customer services must be strengthened by the tax authority. It is not a secret, it is also intended that the professional transformation of the National Tax and Customs Office should take place, and we must also take a certain change of approach to the tax office, but it will be the second stage of the transformation, which, according to a forthcoming government decision, will have to be completed by 30 June. Therefore, the full professional screening of the tax authority will only begin next year after the new management and management of the new law has been set up by the tax authority. I don't know where the numbers of downsizing members of the opposition are coming from, because they're being screened right now. So saying numbers here, I think it's pointless and unnecessary. This is an alarm, but in particular the fact that the NAV will have several leaders - this is completely impossible -; the Directorates-General will cease; tax and customs directorates will be integrated on county boards; management posts will cease. The aim is therefore precisely to have clear governance, two levels, central management and implementation; and at county board level, implementation should not be separate for tax and customs, but should carry out their task in a uniform manner. The aim is to complete and complete the 2011 integration. This change, even if it may be difficult for opposition parties and representatives to accept it now, will show that it is in the full interest of Hungarian society, Hungarian people and Hungarian people. This will be felt by all of Hungary next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2015-12-01-38	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place at our meeting today. Dear Parliament, It follows the discussion of the legislative report and the proposal for amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state land assets, adopted by the Parliament on 28 April 2015, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3788/20. Letter from the President of the Republic T/3788/21. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Invitation of the Legislative Committee to propose an amendment in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision T/3788/22. Amending proposal No T/3788/23. and T/3788/24. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-01-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee is the Parliament's resolution on certain house rules 79. In the proceedings under §2 of the Act of 26 November 2015, at its meeting on 28 April 2015, the Parliament discussed and adopted the Constitutional Court's decision of 16/2015 laying down certain provisions of the Act amending certain laws relating to the management of the state land assets, which was adopted on 28 April 2015 but not yet announced. The Committee adopted the report on this matter by 25 votes to two, with seven abstentions. T/3788 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state land assets. In the case of Bill No 16/2015, the Constitutional Court. in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, the Rules of the House 79. § 2 of the Act also decided to submit an amendment in order to eliminate the breach of the basic law. The amendment was adopted by 32 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. On the one hand, the amending proposal states that the 1995 XCIII on the restoration of the level of protection of protected natural areas is still underway. Law enforcement, which, by law, awaits public ownership of 60 thousand hectares of land, 60 thousand hectares of private ownership and about 8700 hectares of so-called right holders. To this end, it is essential to extend the period of implementation of the law so that national park directorates can continue to take state ownership and the right holders can receive the compensation due to them. In addition, the proposed amendment facilitates interpretation of the law and uniform application of the law. In some cases, former lease agreements for the exploitation of public land grant a pre-lease right to tenants by reference to the legal provisions in force at all times. Since there is no pre-lease right for public land under the current legislation, it is necessary to amend the issue of pre-lease rights granted by such a contract in line with the existing legislation. The amendment therefore makes it clear that the contractual pre-lease right for public land cannot be exercised. In view of what has been said, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill in this changed form. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented in a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This bill has experienced some difficult circumstances, and we have always said that it is clearly unconstitutional, because it is trying to interfere roughly with issues concerning nature protection that are contrary to the large basic law adopted by the majority of the governor. This has been confirmed, and now we have the amendment of this, which actually consists in taking out the passages which the Constitutional Court considers unconstitutional, which is why we supported the amendment itself on the TAB, as it is directing things that we have constantly demanded. However, there is another element of this law, which has been mentioned here, and I would like to talk about it - also - in a little bit more detail. This is the case of pre-lease rights laid down in the bilateral contract. In the beginning, it is also difficult to have retroactive legislation again, but it is even more amazing that the National Land Fund Management Organization has, with its mass, rented out the land of former contractual partners for whom this passage was included in the contract, and this law did not apply. Ladies and gentlemen, So in the last year and a half, the National Land Fund Manager has committed a mass violation, because it is not a European solution from the date of entry into force of this law, but it is true that these pre-lease rights do not apply, but any lease agreements that have been extended before were in force in the case of a new land to be issued. So from this point forward, they could not have done that to companies who had such contracts - and very, very much, I would say, to those that you rented, and also very, very much - in this bilateral agreement, this pre-lease right was included. Otherwise, in a European way, because I think that without such a right, normal farming cannot be planned for the long term. We can't, because here we see that there are more and more ideas per week, how to destroy Hungarian agriculture, and I think that now I see that there is only one way to prevent this if they can't continue to govern in 2018, because then maybe there is still a lot of things that can be undone, I add: everything is not. I believe that this is a completely flawed logic, and in a sector where it takes at least 20 years to develop or breed a normal genetic stock, where biology is to be served, and biology is not usually planned for one year, legislation cannot be introduced where all producers are kept in constant insecurity. This amendment is, by the way, one such amendment. It cannot be claimed to the NFA that this was included in the tender notice that it could not be validated. An invitation to tender can't override a law. I believe and encourage all the actors with whom this mischief has occurred, and have not taken into account this right of a legal bilateral agreement, that those who have not yet done so should go to court. I think that, since this was very, very mass and deliberate, the person who wrote and carried out this call for proposals must also be responsible for the criminal justice of this matter. We will certainly do this criminal report. We have already received from the D.A.'s office that the people of the NFA are not officials, but the control staff above them, who appoints them, for example, the minister, is clearly one, and the non-official person can commit a criminal offence under official authority. The only reason I'm telling you this is because I don't think it's possible to break the law with impunity. You've just made that mistake, because if this amendment hadn't come here, no one would have noticed. [[11.40]] But I think, however, that it is quite obvious that the government itself acknowledges that what it has done so far in terms of renting has not done anything legitimately and has served only one thing in terms of how to destroy operating capacities. A very good example of this is Mezőhegyes, we talked about this a lot. I will now look forward to how Minister Lazarus will solve 400 people's employment in 2,000 hectares of fragmented land. If you solve this, I would like to point out that the sale of 400,000 hectares of public ploughing land is an even greater crime, because on the same logic 80,000 new jobs could be created. That should also be considered very much, fellow Members. In addition, he told me and others in every reply that he would give work to 400 people, but he did not say that he would make a living. Obviously, if they are going to do everything by hand, they are also going to reap, which is very fashionable in Hungary nowadays, as government leaders usually go there, they are admiring it, but I think that this is not what they should do, but that we should take the rhythm of the world with which we have to compete, because otherwise we will have serious problems with Hungary's internal care, not because there will be no food, but it will not be Hungarian. I think, fellow Members, that this law should still not be voted in favour. We should consider all the measures and ideas that come before us now with a mass of them, which is nothing more than pushing a wrong direction to the end. We're gonna have the same case tomorrow. I'm telling you right now, my fellow Member Győrffy would better take that back, and this entire auction operation would be called off immediately. I'm just saying this because there's a terrible mess, a legal uncertainty in the system that farmers can only lose. They're jumping people into investments and purchases that no one can see the end of and the consequences. This should be stopped in time, I think, and we should consider the normal exploitation of Hungarian land and arable land. We will be partners in this at any time if this is preceded by a real social debate. But I see that you are afraid of everything, even of the referendum, especially on this issue, when you say that everything is okay, and everyone in Hungary agrees with that. Only then do I not understand that the six members of the National Election Commission of Fidesz party soldiers - because the others do not [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] - why you did not support our initiative in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-01-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Nagy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. A total of ten minutes is available to the Secretary of State in the full process of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-01-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, T/3788 was voted by the Parliament in April this year. The original text of which provided for substantially more amendments than the one adopted, but in the course of the votes the parts requiring a qualified majority were removed from the text of the motion. These include, for example, the ownership by NFA of protected areas, which would then have been granted to national parks for asset management. This would have allowed the exploitation of state land to take place on a uniform basis. At the same time, it would have been an amendment requiring a qualified majority so as not to include the land area received in the management of assets in the maximum estate of the land manager of the Land Fund. Although the land policy objectives of the National Earth Fund included support for social cooperatives employing public workers, this directive would have required CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. also to amend the law. This amendment was not voted by the opposition, even though social cooperatives working for public employment could have obtained free access to the Land Fund areas without tendering. In addition, land located in protected natural areas could have been transferred to municipal property free of charge and, in the case of public vocational schools, the NFA could have concluded an open-ended asset management contract for the purpose of carrying out basic educational and scientific tasks. The bill, which contains only changes requiring a simple majority, was sent by President of the Republic to review the Constitutional Court, some of which did not stand the test of constitutionality. The part concerning the amendment of the cooperative law which would have abolished the joint use of the cooperative in protected and protected natural areas which could not be designated for the Earth Fund and would have referred these areas to the NFA was deemed to be unlawful. As a result of the amendment, protected natural areas would have been owned by the NFA and the amendment would have required a qualified majority. In addition, the Constitutional Court noted at more than one point that the level of protection of protected natural areas would be reduced by transferring certain powers to the NFA instead of the bodies responsible for nature conservation, so these amendments were also considered to be unlawful. The Constitutional Court's decision is, of course, respected and, on the basis of the comments, revised the proposal. At its meeting on 26 November, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3788/23 prepared by the President of the Republic in the light of his reasoned objections by the Constitutional Court decision. Amendment No 2 made to eliminate the principle of unlawfulness. The amendment leaves the bill adopted in April 1-4. Article 2 of the Act No I of the year on cooperatives and Act No II of the year on Land Planning and Land Publishing Committees, thus leaving unchanged. Law. The annual XCIII on the restoration of the conservation level of protected natural areas. It corrects the original proposal to amend law by designating the body responsible for the conservation management of protected natural areas instead of the NFA for the expropriation of private protected natural areas. This section cannot be abandoned, as the conservation level of some 68,000 hectares is currently being restored, so there is a need to extend the time limit for expropriation until the end of 2018. As a result of this amendment, the areas will receive the required level of protection, so that this cannot be contested from a constitutional point of view. With regard to this amendment, Article 7 of the original proposal is replaced by the following: §2 has become indestructible. LIII of the year LIII on nature protection was removed from the original bill. Paragraph 8 of the Act amending the Act and Section CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation 9. I'm sorry, too. The new proposal also excludes the paragraphs that are set out in Annex LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund. Law a new 38. It would have been supplemented accordingly. Trust relationships concluded before 2010 will not cease to exist in 2016. However, the amendment to abolish pre-lease rights for public land remains. With all these amendments, the proposal will cease to be unlawful. The proposed amendment will extend the deadline for compulsory expropriation of private protected natural areas until 31 December 18; it will place the President of the NFA in the Secretaryship of the Council of Property Policy and clarify the role of the Council; it will lay down as a domain policy directive that social cooperatives should be granted land on preferential terms. Without the two-thirds voted-out, the latter remains merely a directive. We were not disappointed in the opposition, but they did not vote for legislation, despite the fact that everywhere they said they supported this goal. The amended proposal also removes the pre-lease clauses for lease contracts for public land and gives municipalities the opportunity to acquire and use land for public employment and social land programmes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-01-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, MSZP Group will be speaking. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös spoke for a long time in connection with this bill or amendment proposal concerning the pre-lease, that the aim of the governing party in this part is, in fact, to destroy and to force this destruction, and he does not even succeed in doing so legally. [[11.50]] But why would he want to destroy me? It seems to me that Fidesz was very impressed by the fact that it is creating a system of fief in the countryside, practically turning the land into local oligarchs, and thus strengthening its influence on the villages and the countryside through these actors. The problem is that they ran out of land practically before, which could be rented out, they were rented out nicely. We've seen how they've abused this entire rental system, how they've created a rental system where virtually the chosen people could get the land where there was demand and intention. We could see how well the system works, because these chosen ones then finance village days, handing out glass beads in the settlement, for which they also bring in the votes. We also saw in a lot of places, such as my constituency, how one of these local selected oligarchs, János Ágh, carried dozens of cars to the ballot box, to make sure that he was responsible for renting all the land in the area. But after they ran out of land, Fidesz began to think about how more land could be used to small-scale the locals, to secure these rural votes even more, and to look into the lands of the national parks at that time. We said that this would not be good, because what they invented is absolutely unconstitutional: partly two-thirds of the rule cannot be amended by a half law, and secondly, it did not hold its place in substance, because in the protection given to national parks as conservation organizations under the Fundamental Law, it is not possible to withdraw and to play these lands to Lőrinc Mészáros and János Ágh in order to be good for Fidesz. Thank God, the Constitutional Court said we were right about that. And this is where the fidesz argument, repeated by our fellow Member Győrffy, becomes ridiculous, that he could have provided the land with a uniform treatment, because the point was not to use conservation areas on the basis of the same economic principle as the other land in NFA management, but, in a differentiated way, to create a legal environment primarily in which to ensure this goal, and not to play the Hungarian land for economic exploitation, especially for Lőrinc Mészáros and János Ágh. The other very charming thing that our fellow Member Győrffy mentioned is that social cooperatives have also been smuggled into this vote, saying that if we vote off this obviously unconstitutional proposal and should be rejected for its purpose, then it will be possible to refer to the fact that we do not want to give land to social cooperatives. Let's just let it be so pathetic, but in light of how pathetic it has been since then, since all the remaining state land is now being auctioned by Fidesz. Now, I would like to ask you with respect what kind of social economy, what land to give to social cooperatives we can talk about when there is simply no land left, because all land is sold. This whole argument is simply ridiculous, and I would like to draw attention to it - as my fellow Member Mr Gőrffy has already mentioned - that there will soon be a new proposal before us here, which is about to be made to put business investors in a position after these auctions, and that is why Fidesz will bring further destruction and anti-ownerial measures here by our fellow Member Győrffy to the House, and with these proposals they want to make it worth buying these lands for investors who have not bought these fields very much at the bidding. In addition, it is clear that there is also a special order - in addition to the fact that land auctions must be successful, because we need revenue from the state - that after the Prime Minister's conflict with his favorite oligarch, he must also be well spotted. Now, this proposal that we are discussing is also appropriate for this purpose. I would just like to draw attention here to the fact that the proposal on which we will then be discussing is equally unconstitutional, just as the present proposal, which we are discussing now, was unconstitutional, because it wants to override a two-thirds law with a simple half provision, and in its aim it is not only unconstitutional, but it is also shameful what has been brought back to Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Fidesz Members, I think you need to stop evacuating the countryside. You have set yourself the goal of destroying existing systems rather than building new ones. You are only interested in how to subdue the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian lands, to Fidesz's power technology, instead of working on how to provide more people with a livelihood, how to resuscitate the Hungarian countryside, because since 90, the Hungarian countryside has been suffering from the fact that it has not been figured out that instead of the former system, which was destroyed at the time of the regime change, how the Hungarian village will function, how agriculture will serve the Hungarian village. Instead of working on going through this step by step, or working on how to encourage the actors that exist today to cooperate, to compete, you are just beating up existing systems, and there is nothing else that motivates you to do with your buddies, so that you can deliver the votes in return, and that you can say in the debates that, come on, fellow oppositionists, what are you barking about? [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] This is what their entire rural policy, their entire land policy, is all about, because we have been elected in an individual area, and in order to ensure this in the longer term. Therefore, once again, I would like to point out that, thank God, there are moments when you fail to do so. This is the situation that we are talking about here, a situation where sober opposition representatives and the president of the state, who stands for sobriety, have challenged the bill in which the truth has won, and therefore these provisions, thank God, will never come into force. I would urge you to withdraw and withdraw the idea that the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian land, will be subject to Fidesz party interests, and instead to take care of the fact that there will be jobs and livelihoods in the Hungarian village again. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-01-46	Thank you, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you, and it is my duty that Members speak in Parliament's Chamber. So I do not want to repeat the expression that you have described as the way in which it is communicated; people and Members speak, let us remain here in this Chamber. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor. I give you the floor.
u2015-12-01-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to send a message to the pro-government representatives that it would be nice to note that we do not have the two-thirds left, which would save themselves a great deal of inconvenience, for example, in relation to this legislation and what will come before us tomorrow, it is worth taking this into account. The obvious process is, however, that the level of protection previously established and otherwise guaranteed by the state is regularly and in several forms being broken down and withdrawn from it. Fortunately, this is what the Constitutional Court has seen in a number of points. I would like to reject, at the very beginning, what my fellow Member Győrffy has pointed out here, that Jobbik or the opposition would have prevented any proposal that would have given social cooperatives, municipalities access to land, or perhaps we would have hindered the possibility of settlement in relation to defence areas. [[12.00]] I have already said this in the spring debate that if the legislation is brought back, with the exception of nature reserves, Jobbik will, of course, give it the two-thirds, because, as in most cases, in this law, we have said that there are eligible parts, and we have also tried to remove them from the legislation with amendments that cannot be accepted by us. As we have indicated in writing, we have been able to support, and will continue to do so in the future, the parts that would apply to social cooperatives, municipalities and defence areas. So, as can generally be said from nature conservation areas, both at institutional level - we have seen a number of examples of this in recent years - and, unfortunately, at the practical level, there are constant steps, and, of course, we should not just mention the present government. However, I think it says a lot that there is a law that is now more than 20 years old, on the basis of which the state should have mastered the nature reserves, and to this extent we stand on this issue, which has been said several times here in the House. There is also a serious failure by the governments in this regard. Of course, Jobbik has tried to modify the budget in every budget debate in such a way that it will be possible for the government to remedy this defaulting infringement in the future next year. And what has already been said at yesterday's committee meeting, and what I think has yet to be discussed, is the question that President Font has raised the idea of the opposition, that the government is negotiating on certain issues, and that it is not a market for Parliament. In this sense, I think it is, and if you do not have two thirds, but you want to make two-thirds amendments, you should get used to it, take the trouble to contact the opposition factions and take our amendments into account. I believe that Jobbik has demonstrated here in Parliament on numerous occasions that we are a constructive opposition party, and we are willing to accept reasonable proposals, compromises and put them on the table, and I urge you to do so also in connection with this law. Of course, in relation to nature conservation areas, we cannot continue to be supportive of this law. We believe that the treatment at the national parks is as safe as possible. Of course, I also know that if we negotiated this law in the spring, say, for the first time in the autumn, we would not have the little naivety that we had in us this spring, because we did not know at that time that you were going to privatize the state lands, and I do not think that the majority of government representatives were aware of what they were up to. This brought this law into a whole new light. Speaking of nature conservation, it is also worth mentioning, for example, what is happening here in Győr-Moson-Sopron County in relation to nature conservation, which will be caused by privatisation. For example, a highly protected bird, the Bustards, whose habitat - the vast majority of Natura 2000 sites, thousands of hectares - is placed under a hammer these days. It is a side story, by the way, that, let's say, the previous user, I understand, received nearly 600 million forints a year only in addition to the Bustards, so obviously these are even more sensitive areas and more valuable areas for future customers. But I do think that, for example, such areas should not be placed in private hands. It's interesting because, if I remember correctly, even the trail of the M1 motorway had to be changed because of the bustards, and later a casino complex could have been established in the middle of the habitat. I wouldn't go into the fact that this was supported by the information provided by the experts, the rector's experts, which would be the subject of a settlement. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But in any case, I think it is amazing that what the European Union is doing in such significant amounts, and it is indeed very important natural values, and I must say that the areas that we deal with specifically because of the Bustards are also a security and protection for many other species, and with privatisation we see a serious risk that these conditions will not be met. Of course, I do not mean to say by accident that these areas should be left with the current user, but I mean to say that these lands should be left in state ownership and rented so that the owner, the Hungarian State, can always enforce the conservation and other laws and requirements that must be enforced in order to maintain this bird and the level of nature conservation in these areas at all. What I can add to this legislation is that we cannot accept it in this amendment either. The debate was held in the spring. The problems that existed at the time with this legislation still exist today, so unfortunately there have not been enough changes to accept it. At the same time, and at the same time here and now, I demand that land privatisation be stopped. He has more than two weeks of experience behind us. It is clear that neither the government's calculations worked to the extent that it was expected, nor the policies of property policy, which are so often and loudly expressed here in the walls of the House, did they prevail. We have proven from many areas that it was acquired by people who, by the way, would not have been considered acceptable customers in communication. Of course, I know that reality is always far from your communication, but these are the arguments that I think these two weeks have taken long enough to see that they have made a mistake, committed a serious sin, and it may not be too late to save most of the territory. If it takes Jobbik to go back to the Constitutional Court, then, of course, he will. If we can save only 100,000 acres, we'll be proud of that, and we'll try to save that. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-01-48	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I salute my fellow Members. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I see you're preparing, Mr Secretary, so I'll give the floor to the rapporteur within a 10-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. István Nagy State Secretary.
u2015-12-01-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We could have witnessed a very interesting debate, as, in addition to the comments of the pro-government representatives, opposition representatives did not talk about this law, but about what will be tomorrow, and about the precedents of this law, the pre-trial state. So I listened with interest to what they were trying to say, or it means, of course, that what is written in the law is not at all a matter of debate, but of course that we can bring it to the House. Allow me to sum up what remains after the Constitutional Court ruling and what this law is about, in effect, in the Act amending certain laws relating to the management of state land assets sent back by the President of the Republic on grounds of fundamental law. XCIII of 1995 on the restoration of conservation levels in protected natural areas. By 31 December 2018, the deadline for the implementation of the Act will be amended to 31 December 2018. National park directorates can thus continue the mandatory land purchases and expropriations on which we have spent 5.1 billion forints in the last five years, thus bringing another 8000 hectares of protected land into state property and national park property management. The programme for which the MSZP has not provided a penny in the State budget between 2004 and 2010 should be continued, so that thousands of persons entitled to compensation have been injured. This programme will therefore continue and all land will be subject to management of national park board assets after the acquisition of state ownership. Another important point is that the law creates a clear situation. In the case of old public lease contracts where the contract states that the renter is entitled to a pre-lease right on the leased land in accordance with the applicable legal requirements, it makes it clear that the pre-lease right established by the contract cannot be enforced in the case of public land. The statutory pre-lease right has already been excluded. With regard to the NFA Act and social cooperatives, technical amendments and clarifications can also be found in the Act, and the conditions for land use options will be described as how they can be used, when they are free, when contracts can be terminated. Let me say to my fellow Member, Gábor Bellozó, who, referring to social cooperatives, said that there is no land for them at all. It has been said several times in this place, and I myself have repeatedly stated that the land of social cooperatives is absolutely not affected during the current auctions. Reserves are reserved for areas that may be requested by the applicant municipalities if they wish to implement such a programme. [[12.10]] So it is not real at all that the accusation and the claim by which social cooperatives are said to make it impossible, but the exact opposite is true that all those who require these areas as an association, as a local government, for a public work programme can have them. So I can tell you with all my heart that this proposal will be adopted in the vote of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-50	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting today. Now, Honourable Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to inform the factions that we will continue our work from 13.30 a.m. to decision-making. So I'm recessing until 1:30. Thank you. [[Pause: 12.11 to 13.35 President: Lezsák SándorPublishers: Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Mirkóczki]]
u2015-12-01-51	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I salute my fellow Members. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending certain laws relating to the management of state land assets adopted by the Parliament on 28 April 2015 and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3788/20. Letter from the President of the Republic T/3788/21. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3788/23. and T/3788/24. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. Dear Parliament, First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3788/23. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 140 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the law which has not been published on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state land assets with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 112 votes in favour, 67 against, without abstention. T/7918 on the amendment of certain laws to the National Tax and Customs Office and on budgetary planning and management Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/7918/2. T/7918/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7918/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 62 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7918. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, It follows the T/7353 of the Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of sentenced persons. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7353 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 182 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/7354 on the publication of the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7354 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 182 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[13.40]] It follows from the publication of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, T/7390. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7390 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 178 votes in favour, no votes against and four abstentions. It follows that T/7393 on the announcement of an intergovernmental agreement relating to the Single Resolution System will be followed. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7393 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 157 votes in favour, no votes against, with 24 abstentions. The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. T/6979 on the amendment of Act T/6979 and other related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6979/18. T/6979/19. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 10, 12 and 14, and the group of the MSZP proposed amendments Nos 3, 4 and 6. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 10, Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, and in Amendment 3, Member Tamás Harangozó presented a proposal with the same content. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposals. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 69 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr Tamás Harangozó. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 12. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 117 against and nine abstentions. Amendment 12 is proposed by András Schiffer. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 115 against and 29 abstentions. Amendment 14 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 65 votes to 114, with two abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the text, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on points 7 and 12 of the summary amendment proposal. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt the text of Article 38 of the bill. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. [[13.50]] The Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on points 7 and 12 of the summarised amendment. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt the text of Article 38 of the bill. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately.(13.50) I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 7 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 34 votes in favour, 123 against and 24 abstentions. In point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee is the legislative proposal. The EESC recommends that the provisions of Section 4 be deleted. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 114 votes in favour, 66 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6979/18. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 144 votes to 10, with 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6979 accepts it. The provisions of Amendment No 3 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 22 votes in favour, 160 votes against and no abstentions. We now decide on the part of the amended bill that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6979 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, 15 against and 28 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. Act T/6625, and in this context amending certain additional laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6625/14. and the summary report by T/6625/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 3, 5 and 6 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by MEPs Gábor Staudt and Ádám Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 117 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Gábor Staudt and Mr Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 149 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment No 6 is the motion of Members Gábor Staudt and Ádám Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 148 against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 3 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 3 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt the draft act in accordance with Article 39. The Commission proposes to amend paragraph 1 of Section 1. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 3 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment point by 56 votes in favour, 119 against and three abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6625/14. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the remaining points of the summary amendment by 88 votes in favour, 40 against and 50 abstentions. [[Noise.]] [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that Parliament has not adopted all the points of the summarised amendment just now [[The First of Novak: Let's move on!]] So we decide on the original text. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6625. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 142 votes to six, with 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the publication of the Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, T/7352. on the proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1 [[General noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] decision and final vote. T/7352/6. T/7352/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7352/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7352/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 175 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/7355 between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7355/6. T/7355/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7355/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 177 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7355/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows a series of amendments to the T/3784 on chimney sweeping activities and certain laws relating to fire control. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3784/14. T/3784/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10 and Jobbik Group Nos 4, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Ms Anita Heringes and by Mr Árpád Velez. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 40 votes to 114, with 24 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Ms Anita Heringes and by Mr Árpád Velez. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 113 against and 26 abstentions. Amendment 10 is proposed by Ms Anita Heringes and by Mr Árpád Velez. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 112 against and 35 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 116 against and 35 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament rejected the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 120 against and 8 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 115 against and 29 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3784/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 35 against and 29 abstentions. [[14.10]] In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3784/18. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 39 against and 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Government has initiated the convening of the Legislative Committee by the 2011 CXCVI on National Property. T/7389. The final vote will therefore not take place at this meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/6988 on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain official procedures. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6988/6. and the summary report by T/6988/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Mr Gergely Bárándy and Mr Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament rejected the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6988/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes to one, with 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6988/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 167 votes to one, with six abstentions. Dear Parliament, LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods follows. T/7399. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7399/5. T/7399/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I'm asking the Honourable O. A general meeting is accepted by the Legislative Committee T/7399/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes in favour, 1 against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7399/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 164 votes in favour, not without a vote, with nine abstentions. Next up is T/7398 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7398/5. and the summary report by T/7398/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7398/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes to 30, with 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7398/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 111 votes in favour, 33 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, T/5486 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the protection of consumers in the course of the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5486/7. and the summary report by T/5486/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 113 against and 31 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5486/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 52 abstentions. [[14.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5486.10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 171 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act 1 and Act LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement T/7406. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7406/6. T/7406/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 6 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 6 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up an opinion on the draft bill. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 6 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 111 votes in favour, 38 against and 24 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7406/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 110 votes to 39 with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7406/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 111 votes in favour, 34 against and 29 abstentions. Next up is the 2009 LXII on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. T/7307. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7407/5. and the summary report by T/7407/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/747/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes in favour, 4 against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/747/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 4 against and 34 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. Act T/6986 amending certain laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6986/5. T/6986/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 111 against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6986/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 30, with 28 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6986/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 58 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the government initiated the convening of the Legislative Committee on the organisation of gambling in 1991 XXXIV. Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. Act T/778 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport The final vote will therefore not take place at this meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 LXXIII on pálinka, grape pálinka and the National Council of Pálinka. T/6982 on the amendment of Law T/6982 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[14.30]] T/6982/5. and the summary report by T/6982/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6982/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes to five, with 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6982/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to five, with 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the T/7400 on the amendment of certain national defence laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7400/11. T/7400/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to Section 4 of the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party proposed the continuation of amendments No 5 and 6 and Jobbik's Group of amendments No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mrs Márta Demeter and by Mr Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. In Amendment 6, Mrs Márta Demeter and Mr Tamás Harangozó, and in Amendment 3, Mr Gergely Kulcsár presented a proposal with the same content. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposals. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendments by 58 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7400/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7400/15. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes in favour, 36 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1994 XLV on war care. T/7391. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Gergely Kulcsár. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 113 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7391 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 174 votes to one, with one abstention. Next up is the 1993 XXIII on the National Cultural Fund. Act and CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. T/7403 on the amendment of Law T/7403 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7403/8. T/7403/9 and T/7403/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr István Hiller. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes to 137, without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7403/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 34 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7403/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes to 41, with no abstentions. T/7405 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the regulation of education follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[14.40]] T/7405/14. T/7405/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 8 and 9 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by Mrs Dóra Dúró and Mr Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please, let's vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 113 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Mrs Dóra Dúró and Mr Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 111 against and 36 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7405/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes in favour, 9 against and 51 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7405/17. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 109 votes in favour, 9 against and 51 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by independent Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi on measures to facilitate better coordination of childbearing and employment, H/6609. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 62 votes in favour, 106 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/7471, the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary by Mr Gábor Vona and his fellow Members. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 25 votes in favour, 142 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by József Tóbias, MSZP and its fellow Members, in 1997 XXXI on the protection of children and the management of guardianship in order to lay the foundations for the eradication of children's hunger. T/7228. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 64 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. I ask you, Honourable Parliament, whether you will be included in a series of articles by Mrs Márta Demeter, Ms MSZP and her fellow Members, T/7374. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 63 votes in favour, 97 against and three abstentions. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, We have an announcement to make. May I have your attention, please? [[It's ringing.]] I announce that T/6625. During the final vote on the legislative proposal No.3 the Parliament did not accept the summary amendment. Thus, according to the leader of the final vote, the Parliament adopted not the amended bill, but the submitted bill. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 14.47 14.50President: István Jakabjegyző: József Móring Attila]]
u2015-12-01-52	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask my fellow Members, with respect, to take their seats. A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sports in relation to the safety of sporting events will follow. Proposal submitted by the Defence and Police Committee T/7832. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, rapporteur for the Defence Committee, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, On the agendas of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee on 4 July and 30 September 2015, a review of the regulations related to certain security risks was held in connection with the organisation of the first-class football tournament matches. In addition to the members of the committee, the representatives of the government, the Hungarian Football Association and some of the support groups participated in the technical consultation of the committee. The clear aim of the bill is to give peaceful, safe, family-friendly and child-friendly sports experience to all those who buy tickets to a sports event, and even easier to buy tickets and visit domestic sports events compared to current regulations. The intention to amend was based on the fact that the current legislation is not spectator-friendly and should be streamlined as a result. During the committee meeting, the leaders of the cheerleaders explained in detail their objections to the security measures of the current matches, as well as the anomalies that keep fans away from football matches. At committee meetings, there was a clear agreement that future sporting events should be seen as cheer-friendly events and that existing legislation should be moved in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the bill, the rating system for sports events would be simplified, because the three-stage rating level would be reduced to two stages. This allows for normal and high safety risk ratings. The composition of the certification committee would also be streamlined in line with previous experience. Sports events will continue to be provided with the assistance of the police, and in the case of normal and high-security matches, the new rules will also provide a framework for cooperation between the organizer and the police. According to the bill, the directors' tasks could only be performed in the future by a professional professional team with professional qualifications. The travel of fans, which has been strongly rejected by the cheerleading agency, is driven out by the current proposal. I think this is a positive provision in all respects. With the adoption of the bill, the sale of tickets, i.e. the application of the entry system, will not be mandatory for normal risk matches. However, it remains mandatory for high-risk groups, but this is understandable because the safety of sports events is a priority. Through the amendment of the law, the replacement of the fan card will not be mandatory in the future, it is provided for by the organizer or guest sports organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is briefly summarised as follows: the intention is clear, the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee has set itself the goal of reviewing all the legislation and regulations relating to the organisation of sports events and, in particular, football events, and, in the light of the experience of recent years, proposing a new, fan-friendly regulation. Everyone has participated in this process, from fans to representatives to professional staff, and I believe that we have proposed a regulatory system that will not reduce the safety of sports fields, but will make domestic sports games more spectator-friendly again. Sport is part of Hungarian culture, and a sports event can also be a fan-friendly and family-friendly event. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support the proposal of the Defence and Police Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Tünde Savolt-Szabó, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-12-01-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government is committed to supporting sport, which, thanks to the reforms it has introduced, is developing widely. At the same time, it is in our fundamental interest to protect the purity of sport. In addition to combating anti-doping and betting fraud, it is particularly important to ensure the conditions of sporting cheerleading and to combat violence in the audience to achieve this fundamental endeavour. In recent years, the Government and the Parliament have helped to continuously adapt to changes in international requirements in these areas and to meet the needs of domestic practice through a number of priority measures and legislation. I am pleased to report to you that on 11 November Hungary received a notification from the International Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, that the Hungarian anti-doping system and regulation received the highest WADA classification level, so-called full compliance status. But with regard to doping, it is very important to inform and prevent and increase the number of doping controls in the fight against illicit performance improvements. In 2013, the National Assembly, by amending Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, regulated the illegal influence of sports results as a criminal act. It is also under way to incorporate the Council of Europe Convention on the illicit influence of sports competitions into existing legislation in Hungary. The Hungarian government has also taken significant steps in the fight against spectator violence, and has established rules in the legislation, in line with international conventions and agreements, which can be found in the case law and international practices related to sports events. At the same time, the fight against violence in the audience requires a complex approach. In addition to the diversity of the social groups involved and the interests of the authorities involved in the violence in the audience, other intermediate organisations, we must also take greater account of the practical application of the regulation. The legislation, which is the basis for the current legislative framework, which was established in 2009 and 2011, combined with a number of legislative amendments, has eliminated the former shortcomings of the legislation, not secretly moving towards tightening up and creating greater responsibility for those involved in the organisation of sporting events. Due to a further decrease in the number of viewers and the involvement of MLSZ and the support groups, professional consultations have been held and agreed to review the existing legislation and propose amendments to it. It is important to note that the amendment of the legislative framework should not prevent the safe organisation of sporting events, nor should it lead to a reduction in the sense of security for viewers. [[15.00]] Of course, in addition to these amendments, the owners of sports events, the organizers and the clubs themselves must do everything in their power to increase the number of viewers and to increase revenues independent of the state. The purpose of this amendment, in line with the above, is to promote these efforts by means of regulation. The main objective is to improve the rating levels for sports events and matches, to this end the amendment proposes a two-tier change to the three-stage rating system so far, and to state the need that the replacement of club cards is not automatically mandatory under the law, which is decided by the sports organisation organising the match under its own authority. However, if the certification committee considers it to be a high safety risk, the sports organisation organising the match shall apply a name entry. However, in the case of an event of normal safety, the same is no longer required, but if such entry is not carried out and there is a security event giving rise to action in the match, the club should be able to comply with the sport discipline procedure and, as a final sport discipline, the application of a fine becomes mandatory by virtue of the law. I think that the UEFA decision rejecting the appeal gives the law a sad topicality, according to which we will be forced to hold the next UEFA national selection match behind closed gates. In recent years, the Hungarian national team has always played in front of a full house in Groupama Arena, and I think that the 23,000 Hungarian fans who were out there in the Eb qualifier against the Norwegians would be rooting for the team again, but it is likely that they will not be able to do this. In order to prevent such and similar cases, regulation should continue to address clearly the issues of identification of disincentives and should therefore continue to insist on the use of name entry in high-security matches. We do not want this principle to be violated in any way, but we also consider it important, in addition to the identity of the fans, to raise fans' clubs, associations and support communities to the level of partnership, to involve them in the processes that have been launched for the sake of order. Accordingly, during the multi-cycle professional consultation to prepare this amendment, football clubs, as organisers, supported the work of the National Defence and Police Committee that submitted the bill by organisations familiar with and applying the rules on the safety of sports events, as well as experts from the Hungarian Football Association. We still consider it important to cooperate and to maintain and strengthen dialogue between the actors concerned. All comments made by the cheer clubs were addressed in the preparation of the bill by the committee and were also taken into account in the amendments. But all along he had to bear in mind the principle that the safe viewing of sporting events, the protection of human life and health, and the security of property, should be strongly preferred to the efforts to eliminate the full elimination of fan identity initiated by fans. The amendment aims, in line with the previous ones, to help maintain spectator safety by means of regulation, while also taking into account the reasoned and appreciated proposals made by the fans. The presentation is also important and current because all the parties concerned want the clubs and organisations to start next spring season under the changed terms and conditions. In addition to what has been said, the draft also contains Amendment 8 on which several questions were raised during the committee meeting. On behalf of the Government, I would like to state that there is no ulterior motive behind this amendment, which the opposition suspected, because the Sports Act 79. §2 contains a series of delegation provisions for the Government. It is necessary to extend the scope of these authorisations by point bn. Accordingly, the Government is authorised to lay down detailed rules for the use and distribution of State aid for sport in a regulation. This addition is due to the amendment of the Public Finance Act, as this created a legal gap that we had to settle in terms of sport law. The use and distribution so far took place at EMMI regulation level, so we will raise it to a government level if the proposal is supported, so that it will be able to help qualification and preparation directly in the year of the Olympics, so that the support can be delivered to the recipients as soon as possible. Mr President, Dear House, The government supports the purpose and direction of the amendment, because it is aware of the proposals of the cheerleading groups, of which it is outstanding that as a result of the amendment the replacement of the cheerleading card is not mandatory, while it defines the obligations of its organisers and, in particular, the director even more clearly. In the event of a breach, the police will, in particular, set up a further case of compulsory intervention by the police in the light of the essential requirements for the legitimate performance of the directors, as well as sanctions under disciplinary proceedings. We support the amendment of the law because it aims to improve the levels of matches defined on the basis of safety risks, to make it clear that the sports organisation organising the match decides on the replacement of the club card under its own authority and that its replacement is not automatically mandatory under the law. Furthermore, the use of the entry system provisions is expected to make the visit to sports events again more attractive than a realistic and attractive alternative to spending leisure time. This is also important because, in order to watch the matches, the cultural conditions are increasingly given, and we hope that this amendment will make sports events safer, increasing the cultural cheering and the attendance of the matches. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-56	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a newly elected Member of the Parliament of Győr in June 2014 and as a sports friend, I also spoke as a pro-government speaker for the amendment of the sport law at that time. Of course, my commitment to sport has not changed in the last year and a half. In Hungary football must be regarded as an integral part of our culture. I think football is kind of our national case. From the legendary Bécsi Puskás Gold Team to the double rankers, it is all part of our nation's consciousness, our common memory, which we must cultivate on the one hand, and we must also take care of its future. Fortunately, not only the past, but also the present gives joy to domestic football life. By winning the Hungarian-Norwegian duel, we are back on the football map of Europe. However, there is a reason for joy not only in the field, but also in the bleachers. In the Groupama Arena, the fans are sporty, the XXI. In the spirit of 100th-century fair play, in accordance with the requirements of fair play, the team was encouraged from the beginning to the end of the match as the 12th member of the team. This also shows us that more and more modern and modern stadiums are primarily not for football players, but for viewers. For this reason, I found the initiative of the Defence Committee, which announced a professional consultation, a review of the regulations related to certain security risks, with the title of the organisation of the first-class football tournament matches to be very forward-looking. [[15.10]] It is of particular importance that not only the Hungarian Football Association and the government were represented at this meeting, but also the support groups. The representatives of NB I team fans have explained in detail their objections to the current security measures, what anomalies keep fans away from football matches. As far as I know, at committee meetings, there was a clear agreement that future sporting events would be family-friendly, cheer-friendly events. As I was saying, it's the fans who play football for them, who make the stadiums build, and they're the ones who come to have fun in the first place today to have fun. That is why I believe it is necessary for sports events to be considered a service in the future. I also think it is important that we encourage the Hungarian national team to participate in the first-class matches of the Hungarian Championship. Of course, the role of the legislator in this matter, as in many others, is above all. The responsibility and hope of success are for the associations, for the football teams. However, as legislators, we have a duty not to hinder the positive process, but to move it forward as far as possible. To this end, we need to give sports organizers as much space as possible so that they can fill the stadiums and decide on their own method of doing so. As an example, in the future, anyone who wants to can prescribe the card usage of the fans, or just encourage their sympathizers to use it with different discounts, or completely abolish it. However, we must continue to remember security. Simplifications and rationalizations are, I believe, appropriate. At a so-called normal-class match, the main goal may be to facilitate the lives of fans, but in the event of a high safety risk, the police also have a serious task. In the future, cooperation with them can only be entrusted to qualified professionals by sports organisers. A sports club knows exactly who the troublemakers are who can disturb the entertainment of others, so their elimination should be primarily the responsibility and duty of the organizers. I consider it a popular provision that the compulsory travel of fans will be abolished, taking into account the fact that the practical application of the provision has proved to be unfulfilled. It would be a pleasure if the clubs, on the other hand, were to organize the journey of their sympathizers to a rural match in view of their great interest. Also due to this dual category, the law provides that only high-risk matches must be used to sell tickets to the name. That's why normal games make it easier to get in. I hope that more and more of this type of ticket sales will be made in the near future. Just as I hope that it will be fashionable to go to Hungarian championship football matches again, where families and friends can cheer together and culturally support their favorite team. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your support for this. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-01-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-12-01-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, So this is the day when a mistake made many, many years ago is at least partially tried to be corrected. We have talked a lot about these issues, and in the last cycle, Parliament has amended a lot of legislation that is specifically related to sport. You can see that sports are at the forefront of their politics. However, with regard to the proposal specifically on sports police issues, I have always said, in each debate, this can be traced back to the fact that since autumn 2009, there has been no real disturbance within the stadiums, no such thing. Obviously, the legislative amendments must respond to social phenomena, and I am convinced that there was no longer a phenomenon to be responded to at the time. After all, in the autumn of 2009, the then left-wing government, the government led by the MSZP, adopted an amendment which, by the way, brought peace. The evidence is that there hasn't been any serious disturbance since then. Yet you have gone forward in this case, yet you have tightened the conditions for going to the game more and more seriously. They may have been designed to make things more difficult for them, but ultimately, they formed a set of pieces of legislation, which has led to a slow decline in the number of fans in football matches over five years. It is now a ridiculous level to be hit by the tournaments, as there have been several NB I football matches where there have been a few hundred in recent years. This is therefore the result of this policy, and this proposal is an attempt to partially correct it. This is a central public question in Hungary today, because there are a lot of football fans, who, in any case, are happy that ten billion people are spending on stadiums. There are probably even more people who are irritated by this, especially by the fact that a multibillion-dollar stadium is being built in the Prime Minister's home village, at the end of his garden, and right now - in the words of Lajos Korózs - the nation's boiler room is being built. So this is definitely an irritating phenomenon for many. So I really think it would be the job of the legislator here, all of us, to make legislation so that once these stadiums are built and found, the viewers must fill these facilities. Because I think that there are stadiums that are necessary and desirable, and they may not have started with them, because, for example, in Diósgyőr it would be important to build a stadium with a real support camp, and now we really should start, but there are obviously many places where there is no need for these investments and they are significantly overpriced. We need legislation that doesn't prevent them from getting there. Sándor Csányi himself, president of MLSZ, admitted that the mandatory introduction of the cheer card was a mistake. And I obviously miss those in this debate who have argued very strongly for the establishment of this system after 2010. I am sorry that Erik Bánki is not here, and I am sorry that Gábor Kubatov is not here, who is also the president of the FTC, and there is certainly a reason why Lajos Kósa is not here on behalf of the rapporteur. All progress is made by this proposal, and I hope that it is not the recognition of failure on its part that it is not here. 'Cause there's progress, by the way. Yes, the system of qualification changes, it can be a more Eligible, simpler, perhaps more professional story, a more realistic story at any rate. There have been a number of cases where there have been a match where there have been friendly cheerleading camps, where fans are basically close to each other, and they have been classified as high-risk, completely unnecessary. There have also been examples of a number of cops getting to some of the guest cheerleaders. These are obviously completely unnecessary. I think it is an important step forward, whether in the case of a high-security sporting event, the police are carrying out a public service mission to ensure that the sporting event is provided within the facility. This also occurred at the two events when the representatives of the fans were consulted on the police committee that this could be a guarantee. I mean, it's often occurred to me that security people with a shady background are also insured in a game like this. I think this is particularly important for sharpened matches, the highlighted ones. Otherwise, there is also a forward-looking change in normal safety risks in this regard. Most of the anomalies of travel are eliminated by the proposal, although since the company can organize the organized travel of the fans to the guest game, it is clearly not dealing with situations where the club leadership or a cheerleading camp is not, let's say, in an appropriate relationship or not in a satisfactory relationship. However, we hope that this is not very typical, so overall this is also a step forward. There are these three lines about the training of directors, which has not been before, so I think this is also an important thing. It has been said many times that there may have been directors who may not even have a moral certificate. These issues could have been included in the legislation. In any case, you can see that there is progress here. [[15.20]] However, the proposal does not provide a solution to the fact that there are clubs, there is a larger club in particular, Ferencváros, the leadership of which remains attached not only to the mandatory cheer card, but also to the fact that the fans travelling to the tournament are obliged to get in there with a football fan card, as well as a completely incomprehensible Hungarian innovation, this Vesaskenner is invigorating the moods in this respect. I think that this proposal is not brave enough in this matter, and, as has been said in the debate, but obviously my fellow Members will still refer to it, there is a distinction between a cheerleader and a cheerleader, and this is not necessarily right. Here's the part about how to use the entry system, what matches to use it. It has been mentioned by my pro-government colleagues that they do not need to be used properly in the event of a normal risk event, or that the sale of tickets to the name is not a condition, but there is a second part of this particular sentence that, in the case of a high-security sporting event, the entry system is mandatory for the football sport. So this story is still required in the top matches. I think we should stop here for a second. I don't think this is gonna work out. I think you have two things to ensure at the same time that the National Assembly accepts the law. On the one hand, those who are used to the current system, in family sectors or in other environments, in other parts of the stadiums, where there is greater peace, a different environment, are used to registering, there is this possibility. The other is, let us note that the Hungarian ultra-social community, which has served the Hungarian football case for the past 25-30 years for 25 years, has stuck to Hungarian football when, by the way - let me not say harsher signs, but let us say - our teams have performed very badly. We have always said that fans are at international level many times, although there have obviously been some negative phenomena, but overall, international standards can be said, and our football has been less so in the last 30 years. Ultras should therefore also be given the opportunity to benefit from what they have said at least in the sectors where they traditionally support. Therefore, I would like to add another half sentence to this sentence, and I will put forward an amendment to this, and I would ask the government and the pro-government representatives to support it. This would be added to the sentence: in the case of the high-security sporting event, the entry system is mandatory for the football sport, with the organizer of the sports event in certain sectors, but not more than 30% of the stadium seats being allocated. I think this conflict should be cut short. So we can come with more and more modifications, Hungarian football without ultras, without fans will not be what we would like to see, people who love football. If it doesn't, it will also irritate people who don't like football if they do, and irritate them that the country is spending tens of billions on it. Therefore, in addition to maintaining registration with this proposal in a significant part of the stadiums, most of the sectors, besides ultras, the club's decision could provide an opportunity to avoid such unique identification. Obviously, of course, if there were such disturbances in one sector, there would be technical access doors here, and individual identification could be made mandatory again. Thus, the responsibility is clearly for the clubs and indirectly for those who wish to cheer in these sectors. This would be a new solution, and I will submit this, so please treat this flexibly, in all respects, as a solution, I believe. And what's important, it would only take the unique identification out of the system, so the turntables, everything else, search and stuff that I think is for safety, they would remain. I have already referred to the question of the cheer card, which was also acknowledged by MLSZ, and I note that it should not have been made mandatory on the basis of the current legislative background. There's still a few more thoughts here at the end, because there's the 8th. §8 indeed, to which the Secretary of State has referred here that this mandate is given to the Government's regulation, that is to say, to the detailed rules for the use and distribution of State aid for sport purposes. This was also mentioned at the committee meeting, and we did not have any clear answers, especially in relation to the fact that the Sports Act provided the Hungarian Olympic Committee with very broad powers in relation to the rules on distribution of such uses, including obligations, professional programmes and budgets, in a timely manner to be submitted by the professional associations to the MOB. Now, either it does not work properly, so today's Hungarian sports funding does not work according to the sports law, or this is not necessary, but otherwise there is no need for this clause within this legislation, so this is definitely the 8th. Somehow, he's a body stranger to this legislation. What I would like to say to you in closing is that we have talked a lot about this, we have done a lot of patching up and patching up these laws, we are in the same place we were five years ago. In the same way, we said the concerns that we could see for those who knew a little bit about the Hungarian cheerleading society, and who in this story were somewhat socialized at the matches. It is good to hear these voices, and I think that the representatives of the cheerleading office have given exemplary, intelligently and specifically what amendments they would like to make. Obviously, my proposal is a hybrid proposal in this matter, because I see that you will not give in to certain things, and by the way, fans are quite rightly trying to represent their own ideas through their own representation. If a similar hybrid solution can happen, then Hungarian football, in my opinion, serves the interests of Hungarian sport. Either you can do this, or it's basically not gonna change. I have a sad diagnosis that just because you're selling tickets on your name in a normal-risk match, although I note that for a lot of normal-risk matches, there are only a few hundred people in the NB I, so just because you're gonna accept it doesn't mean this situation is gonna work out. Be brave, I suggest you do that. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Grimlock clap: Bravo!]]
u2015-12-01-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the Fidesz-KDNP Group.
u2015-12-01-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to express the thoughts of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party of T/7832. In relation to the amendment to the Act No. As has been said, the Defence and Police Committee discussed it in detail on 4 July and 30 September. The consultations included representatives of EMMI's Secretary of State for Sport, representatives of MLSZ, representatives of the fans. In several rounds, the heads of the NB I fan groups explained in detail their objections to the security measures of the current matches, what measures they consider to keep fans away from football matches. At committee meetings, there was a clear agreement that future sporting events should be more cheer-friendly events than before. Following this, a number of professional discussions took place, in addition to the professional aspects, taking into account the proposals of the support groups. The purpose and role of the multi-circular negotiations was to submit the agreed proposal to Parliament for legislation regulating the safety of major sporting events. I note that the legal situation was also complex in relation to the issue, because there are laws that we can amend in our own jurisdiction, but not only laws, but also government decrees and ministerial decrees regulate the issues concerned, which are also linked to the laws. This must also be resolved in order to ensure that the necessary amendments can be made in the same way as the system. Our intention was, in any case, to reach a common Commission position with the participants after consultation, after which it could take place with the representatives of the government to clarify the legal instruments that we could use in order to carry out the changes that we wanted to make. As a result of the consultation, consensus was reached on the need to review the existing legislation and the relevant lower-level regulation with normative content. [[15.30]] Then, in the light of the written proposals submitted by the fans, a proposal should be made to amend the rules in force. The written proposals submitted by the fans were taken into account in the drafting of the motion. The draftsman of the text of the law was the sports department of the Ministry of Human Resources State Secretary for Sport. The amendment of the law cannot replace the management organizational, commercial steps that must be taken by the owners, organisers and directors of sporting events in order to increase the number of viewers in professional team sports and increase business revenues independent of the state. The purpose of this amendment is, in line with what has been said, to promote these efforts by means of regulation. It aims to rationalise the level of qualification of matches rated by the Sports Police Rating Committee in the field of flagship team sports within the framework of the legislative amendment and to clarify that the sports organisation organising the match will decide on the replacement of the club card in its own jurisdiction - its replacement is not automatically mandatory under the law - and to streamline the provisions on the entry system. I am convinced that the changes made to the law are intended to make it easier for viewers to visit the NB I matches. Some of the objectives that I consider to be supported are also important to mention separately. Under the law, sports events can be considered as services and events. The abolition of the fan card will be the decision of football clubs in the future whether to apply the cheer card or not to apply it if it is applied, which discounts will also be granted to its user. There will be no cheer travel in the future. UEFA-compatible football matches. In the future, there will be no named ticket sales in the normal category matches, because it will keep fans from playing football, from going to the football match. Only high-risk matches shall be used for the sale of tickets by name. Normally, football clubs decide if they want to sell tickets by name. According to the rules on the identity of directors, directors can only be security guards qualified as property keepers, which they control, thus avoiding problems so far. The responsibility lies with football club security. Ladies and gentlemen, The Defence and Police Committee has proposed amendments which, by making it easier for fans to go to the match, can also increase the ratings of the matches, support sports, sports, sporting support, order, sports facilities and the environment, and the safety of the fans. Sport is a part of culture, a community event, it forms the community, and it strengthens a positive outlook on life. Sport performances have an educational impact, and appropriate conditions also affect sports facilities. Allow me to quote Minister Simicskó, who was the Secretary of State for Sport, recently said this sentence: "The key to sport is the gateway to society. Therefore, it is important that sports events are easy and safe. To attract sporting events, that is to say, to ensure friendly and family-friendly conditions, so that sport can also have quality entertainment and have the most effective and positive influence in the sports community, among those interested in sport and in society as a whole. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party considers that the T/7832 submitted by the Defence and Police Committee should be supported. I would also like to call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This is not how I was prepared, and I will probably not fit in my time, so, Mr President, if you will allow me, I will ask you once again for your patience in speaking. I would like to thank László Varga for his speech, because at least during his professional speech, one could calm down a little after the speeches we had heard from the government, and I would really like to apologize to you in advance, with all due respect, so these are not personal criticisms that I make of you, but only the sentences and the words that you have expressed here. I have my respect for everyone, even to Robert Simon, who was already a lead speaker in the creation of this law, and he was also a lead speaker now, and now he has read what he has to say and left. So you're not exactly interested in what's going to happen to all of this. So there was everything on the government side, we could hear these horse-zunges and demagogues, that's all I've heard for a long time. There was a cheerleader, a family friend, an audience, there was a Puskás Bubby, a fight against doping, a series of Hungarian-Norwegian, joy, happiness, good decisions; just what I didn't say, otherwise I expected someone to mention the hard-working little people. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] 'Cause it's a constant figure of speech for you guys all the time. That has not been said, so allow me to respond first to what you have said here. First of all, I agree with Matthias Firtl on one thing, and here's the interesting thing, that the others said exactly the opposite. Mátyás Firtl said that the current laws, the current rules, were not spectators-friendly, and I agree with that. Indeed, that's why there's such a drop in audiences. But who created these laws? Who made these rules and regulations? You. And then he tells me, Robert Simon, who was also a lead speaker when he said the same things, which are not now viewer friends, that they are viewer friends, and that this is what serves as a way to get more viewers in the stands, to tell things. And then here, Matthias Firtl told me what the positives are. There are indeed some positive points in this law, but let us mention that in these discussions, which have been said by the fans, almost nothing has been included in the important issues. After all, it has been said that the director's guard is not functioning properly. You touched this, but you didn't put the most important part in it. I think it would be expected that if we were talking about viewers and family-friendly cheerleaders and the service of viewers, this director would have a moral certificate. That was one of the main demands of the fans. Is it in the law? It's not in there. Because the biggest problem is that it's often criminals who try to enforce order against normal citizens, by the way. And it's not in there because they didn't put these in there. And yes, it is a question of where Lajos Kósa or Gábor Kubatov is. It would be very nice to have them here in a debate like this. After all, I also said at the committee meeting that the fact that this law may be here is indeed - and I thank you - thanks to Lajos Kósa. If Lajos Kósa hadn't agreed to this law, he wouldn't be in front of this House until today. And I'm very sorry, by the way, because that's not how Gábor Kósa started in the negotiations, and it was said that Lajos Kósa might be able to go through with all of this, and I'm very sorry that the Kósa Lajos-Kubatov Gábor has fallen behind in a duel. That's why the law is like this right now. But let's keep going. Madam Secretary, I don't know how the doping business got here at the moment; I am very pleased that this fight has gone so well, but this has nothing to do with the negotiation of the current legislative amendment. But I'm gonna ask Madam Secretary if she has a cheerleader card. [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde: Van.]] Do you? Have you ever been in a game? [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde: Yes, I did.]] So, not in the VIP, but at proper entry? [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde: Yes, properly.]] That's great. Then I am particularly pleased that you have experienced conditions that may have been such. [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde: I've experienced it.]] I don't know if he was in a high-profile match, because then he took a lot of time from his time to say that if a match started, he'd have to go out three or four hours before, because you'd be required to do this, or if he was going to a Fradi-Újpest match, maybe his whole day would have been spent traveling to Újpest. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] That's right, my fellow Member, at a match that started one afternoon, let's say, at 11:00 a.m., you have to go to the Fradi court to be escorted by the police on foot from, say, Újpest-City Center to the fans, and even if you have a ticket or anything else, you can't go in. These are interesting things. [[15.40]] The other thing is that the best way to increase safety is to talk about safety, if there were no viewers at all in the bleachers, because that would be maximum safety. We could get here, and it wouldn't be a problem if the leader who is, let's say, close to you or, let's say, the Hungarian Football Federation, which is also close enough to you, or the government, couldn't be scolded, because if there are no people on the bleachers, no one can scold anything. Then the Secretary of State referred to UEFA. I always have problems referring to organisations - I understand UEFA doesn't even have a leader at the moment - which carry out far greater crimes than the so-called criminalized fans. They are defined by organizations that, I almost say, could not be defined by their moral standards and by their moral basis. This corruption-suspecting organization like UEFA, it's a small king and it's on people's necks. By the way, I would recommend the Polish example to the secretary of state, the Poles, the leaders as well, so both the sports leaders and politicians are simply completely resistant to UEFA, and they say that they will determine what is right in their own sports life and what is wrong. The other, and this is about the last secretary of state, the issue of sports subsidies, which is in this law, and we again find it strange why she is in it. My question would be that, by the way... 'Cause interestingly, at the committee meeting, they didn't know that much about the people present there, the government representative and present, I think, Deputy State Secretary, he didn't know because he said that it had to be changed because he wasn't in the law. But it's in there. The law describes exactly how sports subsidies should be used. I would respectfully ask the Secretary of State to check whether, over the past three to four years, sports subsidies have been used in accordance with the law. So, for example, the way to use a sports grant has been used since the single channel system started and supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement, so that it is the Hungarian Olympic Committee that distributes the public funds received from the state, which have to be used for sports purposes, among the various professional sports associations. The law provides that, at the beginning of the year - as I understand it, by June - each professional sports association must submit a plan indicating the amount of money it would need in order to be able to develop normally, properly and fully, and to ensure its development, and this must be submitted to the Hungarian Olympic Committee. So you submit a plan to the Olympic Commission, the presidency of the Olympic Committee collects these work materials from the professional sports associations, discusses them, distributes the money you have at your disposal, the funds you receive from the state, then presents it to the MOB's general meeting, and the MOB accepts it, and then starts to allocate these funds. It's the law. Now I'm going to ask you when the Hungarian Football Association, say, has made such a plan in the last three or four years. Did the General Assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee discuss these issues and accept them? So there are laws and regulations on the distribution of sports subsidies, but they just don't follow them. So now you can change it, you can make new laws, and you can make new rules if you don't follow them. So I'm asking you to see if that's how it works. Simon Robert was the last person I had to write what he said. Since he was a lead speaker, the things he said were positive now, for example, he says it is positive that the abolition of travel is a fan-friendly provision. But two years ago, you said that organizing travel is a fan-friendly provision. Now it's not. Actually, it's not, but it's what you're backing it up with right now. So how credible is it to him to say that the fans are the ones for whom the matches are held, they are the most important? I agree with him absolutely, but then I don't understand why these fans have been chased off the bleachers for the past two years, why they make it harder for them to get into the stadium. So I'm convinced that Mrs Secretary of State shouldn't have a cheerleader card, because by the looks of it, I believe you're not going to make a mess. Then why should you go to a stadium with a system of entry and a cheerleader card and everything else, a stadium where there's huge discrimination? So let's not forget that there is a huge discrimination, because this system makes a difference between rich fans and poor fans, because who goes into the VIP box, who, say, has a VIP ticket, who bought, say, a booth at the Ferencváros Holiday Stadium, doesn't need a cheerleader card, no access system, nothing. They're the trusted cheerleaders, then. And what determines the quality of a trusted cheerleader? It's that he has money or he doesn't have money. I do not agree with that, as a reliable cheerleader could be a poor man. Why can't it be? Because he can't buy a VIP pass that's so expensive, he can't afford it on his salary? And that's what's going on in today's system. So it doesn't apply to everyone going out for a match, no. There are exceptions. A man with money doesn't have rules for a man who doesn't have money, and that's what they do. Well, what makes a rich man more reliable than a poor cheerleader? He likes soccer the same way, and he's going out for a match. Let's see why we have the law amendment before us, and that's pretty much all I'm gonna be able to say, and then, like I said, if you'll allow me, I'll keep going. Because you started a very serious stadium building project, building a lot of stadiums, building modern stadiums. Among these stadium investments there are also unreasonable investments, let us think of Felcsút, where we had to build a stadium next to Viktor Orbán's garden, or just think of the boiler designed by Makovecz, which is now being built for 3.6 billion to heat two grass fields. Let's just think that for the first time in the world, by the way, we're gonna be number one in this world, I don't think there's gonna be a capital city in the world, or even a city in which there's gonna be, say, three supermodern, hyper stadiums within three or four kilometers. This is Budapest, by the way, because if you go down from Kerepesi Road to Üllő Road, there will be three stadiums. It'll start with the Pusk, then the MTK track will be there, and they'll arrive at the Ferencváros Üllői út stadium. In my view, these investments in this form are unreasonable, consuming enormous costs. But just because there were infrastructure investments and there are, let's say, more than 20,000 stadiums, it wouldn't have increased in proportion to the number of viewers, it would have decreased accurately. That's unreasonable. So if you take the service to think that you can watch the matches in just better circumstances, why the audience is falling, that's what you've discovered, that the attendance is historically low, even though the audiences are being cosmetrated quite strongly. There were two matches where an Internet site proved that they were saying almost twice as many as they were in the match, because people were counted, and it was possible to count from pictures. In the last Vasas-Ferencváros match, just a thousand people disappeared compared to the official audience they were out there. So even these spectators were cosmetic. So when I say that all the NB I matches - pay attention, because it's an interesting number - two rounds ago, 8500 people saw it, 8500 people in all the stadiums, that's terrible, then that's terrible! [[Towards the opposite benches:]] There is a possibility, you have to press the button; you may not be able, as a new Member, to press the button and then you can answer me, otherwise I would be happy to argue with anyone about these issues, if you have any opinion about it. What's the problem is that they've tried so far, but now they can't use communication to make this situation disappear. So they've been trying to explain that it's gonna change, and the new fans are gonna come, and the new audiences are coming, and now the families are gonna grow, and then they're gonna grow fast, so let's just get these bad fans off the bleachers, because they're the cause and the cause of everything. However, they were not the cause, and they were not the cause, because I will try to explain them in a little more detail in my next speech. Thank you very much for your patience and for listening to me so far. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-01-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-65	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The amendment before us must be separated sharply in order to see clearly the points which are intended to be compensated, and the part of the proposal which intends to maintain a bad system, a structure that makes money in sport funding opaque. [[15.50]] I would like to start with the first: it would be difficult to explore a comprehensive concept in the way the government handles the safety of sports events. The May Other, according to Politics, is the right time to normalise the situation, and in this respect it can be a step forward that, according to the justification, the government intends to correct the current regulation after consulting the stakeholders, in particular in the light of the written proposals submitted by the fans. For example, a definitely eligible idea is the part of the amendment that leads to a completely unviable rule on the travel of a cheerleader from the sport law. The government's attitude towards access systems in stadiums is not consistent with minimal exaggeration. There is nothing new under the sun: the history of Fidesz and the entrance gates has been running parallel for quite a long time. We can also remember the sports minister of the first Orbán government, Tamás Deutsch, who ordered access systems for billions of dollars later never used them. Looks like the past is repeating itself. The Fidesz-KDNP government, which was established in 2010, made the deployment of the entry system mandatory in all higher sports facilities, and after many billions of public funds have been made available for this purpose, they will no longer be required to be used. This is true even if, in the case of high-security risk matches, the match organisation sports organisation is obliged to apply a name entry. The haste and uncoordinated, forceless politics could only have ended this way. It is necessary to integrate stakeholders' aspects into legislation in order to find a way to make this system work. A perfect example of this is the issue of a cheerleader card. If the Parliament accepts the amendments submitted by the Defence and Police Committee, then it is no longer mandatory to replace it under the law, the sports organisation shall be entitled to provide for it in respect of the sports organisation and the guests' fans. The mandatory cheerleader card was very expensively introduced, but after it turned out that the fans were less likely to attend sports events, the government refused. The problem is that the Hungarian people have paid again that the government has not thought about the expected consequences, and on several occasions the opposition has also drawn attention to this. If it were to be described in one word in these phases of the law amendment, then the term "reimbursement" is most appropriate, but, as such, of course, a move forward compared to the present unblessed conditions. And speaking of the petitioner, what is the result of the relatively rare form of parliamentary committee law initiative in Hungarian public law. And let's face it, it's a very specific situation that the rapporteur will also be the committee conducting the detailed debate. Dear House, The proposal is not only about damage relief and rationalisation of sport safety, but also about a sport funding line in the text. The Government is authorised to lay down detailed rules for the use and distribution of State aid for sport in a regulation. Although this has little to do with the title of the proposal and the safety of sports events, questions are coming up; the first is of a technical nature. Given the current level of ministerial regulation, the sport law should be amended on a number of points. However, this does not seem to be resolved from the presentation. But more importantly, the content problem is the issue of state sports subsidies in general. State support for sport is primarily the so-called five visual team sport, football, basketball, handball, water polo and hockey; its current support system is a hotbed of corruption. Even though the Prime Minister likes to say that money from tao to sport is not public money, the facts show that it is very much public money and that it is a specific state aid. Four years ago, a new support system for five visual team sports was introduced, and since 2011, companies can decide that part of their corporate tax is not paid into the common register, but is given to a visual team sport club, or, we know, there is still a possibility of supporting culture. The Hungarian State renounces this money, i.e. the state's tax revenue is less. So we think it's definitely public money. The problem is mainly due to the fact that the government treats state tax revenue reduction sports subsidies as corporate private donations, and therefore neither companies nor sports clubs have to account for the subsidies in detail. That's 200 billion forints that the state doesn't have a view of where it's wandering. According to the LMP, it is not ensured that this would go purely to sports subsidies in the purest sense, since, without normal supervision, it is feared that most of these billions will become corruption. This should also be addressed in the regulation. It is high time that the rationalising steps taken by the majority of governments in the field of sport security were also taken in the field of sport funding. The sad experience of recent years is that the guiding thread of the whole corporate sports support system is that sports associations that are dear to politicians can get uncontrolled access to money that reduces their state tax assets. In addition, they can do all of this in a perfectly regular manner, as Fidesz specifically dictates the law. Let's see how the system is built. The sport clubs, which provide incentives for tax support, should develop a sport development programme, which should be approved by the sports professional association. The sports association decides which team can get corporate money and how much tax revenue can be reduced by the state. But this decision process is completely closed and opaque. The political and public relations of the leaders of the visual team sports associations are becoming increasingly evident. This is the completely flawed system that makes the foundation of one of the small settlements of the district of Bicske the main beneficiary of the system, instead of developing Hungarian mass sports or maintaining health. The majority of the government does not leave anything to chance, the amendment of the Sports Act which entered into force in January this year is sufficient for sports organisations, and I quote: providing information on the aid through the provision of aggregate data content. As a result, it is absolutely impossible to find out exactly what kind of support the company has given to the sports association. For years, the LMP has been trying to ensure that public support for sport is transparent, and it will not be up to us to finally correct the feudal funding system for corruption in the same way that the sport security issue is being rationalised. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-01-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We will now continue our work with speeches from our representatives. Speaking in writing Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-01-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to share some of my thoughts on this proposal with you, because it was very clear here that you are now trying to correct in some way an earlier, failed and wrong decision by bringing this amendment to Parliament. However, I would like to highlight some of the things that my fellow Members have already talked about here before me, but I think it is important. You have also mentioned, Madam Secretary, that it is very important for you, too, to increase the number of viewers. So I think we all agree on this, that this is a very important thing. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that what you have brought here to this House will still be insufficient to increase the number of viewers, because if someone sees as an outsider what you see with sport - and now let us talk about football within sport - they are doing about football, it is a completely and totally counterproductive thing. What's happening? On the one hand, they communicate that there are few audiences, and on the other hand, with the stadium-building programme - and I would now open a parenthesis here, and here my fellow Member Varga said that a lot of people are very happy that there will be new stadiums, even more may be against it, my personal opinion is that these billions could have been better spent in health or education, but I have closed this parentheses - they will also build new stadiums for teams with a viewing number of a few hundred. [[16.00]] Here the question arises for all reasonable people, how do you intend to increase the number of viewers, because - let us go through it for a moment! - here, the secretary of state said that we don't need a cheerleader card, we don't need a name card, except in high-security games, which the club itself will decide whether or not to declare. Now I assure everyone, here I could practically highlight three clubs, which may now have a more serious audience in Hungary: Diósgyőr, Ferencváros, Debrecen. Obviously, these clubs won't risk paying a lot of penalties, so I'm sure the matches that these teams are playing will always be high-risk, so we've basically done nothing for the cause. What my colleague György Szilágyi said is really not acceptable, and I think that people should go out and wait several hours before a match, so it's not realistic, believe me. Here I would like to draw another parallel to this - I think - over-insured system: one of my favorite sports is football, and the other is my favourite sport, which I am now bringing here as a counterintelligence, the ralisport. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Imagine, at a rally tournament, thousands, even tens of thousands of people will go to one place in virtually unchecked places away from cameras. There's no risk in that? There's a risk in that, too. But I think that football is, for some reason, such a black horse in your eyes from this point of view, so I think that it simply does not deserve those fans who have gone to the matches of their club team for decades, perhaps even when that team has played in the second class, they have stood by them for decades, and they are punishing these people, these fans, with what I have already talked about, and what my fellow Member Szilágyi has talked about before us. So I think it would be appropriate here to rethink this whole thing, not to modify it, to explain it, but simply to trust people as adults, because I do not believe that in Hungary there is currently a security risk to a match that would result from the disorderly conduct of the fans that these measures would be justified. I would ask you to have a serious conversation with the fans and cheerleaders of the various club teams, and to actually listen to their opinions, because now you, the secretary of state and the front speaker, who has already left the meeting room, have indicated that they have been heard; they may have been heard, but I am sure that what they have expressed as comments has not been accepted. So I'm sure it would require further discussions here to talk about a fan-friendly, if any family-friendly event and events in the context of football matches, and believe me, the number of viewers will grow by considering and accepting these things we have said. I would like to point out one more thing, which is very important: perhaps we should re-evaluate the financial implications of getting into football matches, because if a family of four or five would like to go out to see a football match, that is a huge amount of money, so I think that we should also take the right steps here to ensure that Hungarian football really serves the Hungarian families, the fans, and perhaps - let us trust it! - if we take the necessary steps to do these things as decision makers, then there will be a time when Hungarian football will shine in its old light. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-68	Thank you very much. Welcome. Before we continue our work, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the students of the University of Szeged Department of Politology. I'm glad you're here. Have a good day. Now we will continue our work with speeches asking for a normal word. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, please.
u2015-12-01-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my comment a little further in this debate, because I was part of the debate when the Sports Ministry ceased during the Gyurcsány government, and then I was the lucky one to announce this on behalf of our government - everyone knew exactly that I did not agree with this decision at the time, but nevertheless this honour was on me - and then the Fidesz Members protested very strongly that this ministry would cease to exist and that from now on they would not represent the sport issue in Hungary as a ministry. And then a lot of time has passed since then, because, from what I see, the representation of sport at the state administration level is increasingly slipping down. I wish the Secretary of State good luck in her operation, it will be a difficult task, because she now has almost one secretariat, with the help of which she should carry out her professional management, and, by the way, all the important issues have been removed from the hands of this Secretary of State from the hands of this secretary of state, which is, of course, not the Secretary of State, but the policy that has weakened the functioning of this State Secretariat for completely different reasons, with a different explanation, but constantly. So I think that when we talk about sport, it is also worth devoteing a sentence to the need to restore the worthy representation of Hungarian sport within the public administration, which would not necessarily mean a ministry, because without it, sport management has often been able to function well in different governments, but what is now certainly makes the State Secretariat in many cases a little bit more difficult to perform. And I can also see that now it seems that Fidesz doesn't have as much trouble as it used to be. The other - and that is why I wanted to comment - is that this debate may have slipped just a little towards football, while there are other high-profile events that may pose a security risk. Of course, as my fellow Members have rightly said, football is the one that is most affected, but there may be many other major events where a similar problem can be expected, so it is not only worth evaluating this situation from the point of view of football in Hungarian. Indeed, I would also like to share the concern that in Hungary there is, in our view, a forced stadium construction programme. As my good-looking fellow Member has said here, perhaps one or two or three bus stops can be used to get to new large stadiums, which are worth tens and hundreds of billions, and this is all in Budapest, say in a relatively well-defined area, while, where appropriate, in strategically important places in the countryside, it is not necessarily a stadium, whereas in places where there are Fidesz friends, important representatives, however, they give hundreds of millions of forints to build stadiums or such facilities. Nevertheless, it is a fact and fact, which the fellow Members are talking about, that while they are pouring money into football, both in the development of facilities and in other ways in respect of Tao, we do not see the result of this, or at least we see little results, and so the viewers miss out on these matches. As someone may have mentioned here, now, I think he's under 1,600 players/matches based on the last measurement, as many as went out for different matches. I think it is a legitimate suggestion from all opposition representatives that security should somehow be combined so that it is not really complicated, it should not be difficult for fans who would otherwise like to go and spend money on it. In many cases, it seems to me that incentives, in many cases positive incentives, can be more functional than coercion or regulation with the power of law. Therefore, we believe that a solution must be found that actually allows what we see in Spain, Italy, or even in Britain, where appropriate, that children with cotton candy or families, elementary school classes go to football matches, and that no parent has any idea that any atrocities can affect that small child, I might add: verbal insult. [[16.10]] I've dated my own little boy and I've had to explain what the fans are yelling, and maybe I had to explain a thing or two to him a little sooner than I wanted to. So, in Hungarian, there are certainly not only physical but also oral atrocity reasons why order should be established. I would also like to add one more thing to the attention of the Secretary of State and those involved in the debate that today's debate, particularly on the safety of sporting events, is taking place in a very special atmosphere. We are now aware of two football matches, both in France and Germany, which terrorists wanted to disturb - and now to disturb a very cautious statement - that it is effective to blow up people at these events. So I would actually ask the Secretary of State that, while this proposal was being made, I think it was not tailored to this situation, because it was not possible to foresee these tragedies, but these tragedies have already happened, or at least the experiment in Germany has already happened, how this reflects, how it is related to this terrorist threat. Today's news, which is not related to a football event, nor to a sports facility, but they're also looking at the Sofia airport to see if or not a bomb was found in a Belgian car. So in Hungarian: this threat must be addressed in such a bill or amendment, do they want to react, what specific situations can be imagined when, where appropriate, these situations need to be regulated differently? So in Hungarian: with this terrorist threat, which, unfortunately, we will have to live with in Europe in the near future, what is the relationship with this current bill? So I wanted only to draw the attention of those involved in the debate to two new elements; one is that security is important not only in football matches. The second is that terrorism is also a threat to sporting events. Hungary is also preparing for a major world event in swimming and other areas, so it may also be worth paying attention to how security can be a top priority here. I'm pretty sure that's gonna increase the number of viewers. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
u2015-12-01-70	Thank you. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like for you to take your share of the debate, to try to explain the almost inexplicable by reason. For the purpose of this proposal, and for the purpose of which the President of the Police Commission, Lajos Kósa, initiated an amendment to this proposal or even a debate, these proposals are not met. I sat through the long-term committee meeting when we first heard representatives of MLSZ and invited representatives of some clubs for consultation, and I experienced nothing but a great deal of agreement on certain abuses, which all contributed in the long run - and even in the short term - to the slow ring of Hungarian stadiums. Then we have been promised either by MLSZ or by clubs that we will review them, we will consider them and make the necessary amendments that will be positive for all parties. Clubs do not feel that there is no security or that they are at constant risk of various disturbances. Fans don't feel criminalized, they're free to go to matches, either domestic or foreign. And it's gonna be good for everyone at all to get back in the mood, to have people watching in the stadiums again. Then the committee meeting continued with a second round, when representatives of the fans, representatives of the cheerleading groups that boycott these matches today and to this day. Regardless of party positions, everyone could make sure that it wasn't criminals, not mobsters, I don't know what hooligans, rioters, but simple organized cheer camps that guarantee the atmosphere from match to match, regardless of location. Then both Fidesz and MSZP and Jobbik, perhaps only DK could not be listed here, everyone agreed on common minimums. It was one of these common minimums... - if I remember correctly, I myself had a different proposal, which specifically concerned the security control of the stadiums. In the first round, I suggested that it would be much easier for us if the regional police were to perform security tasks in each match, and that the club would not use its own money to employ men of various precarious backgrounds and origins for security professionals, but simply to cover the costs of the police, which would be acceptable to everyone. I have made a further concession that if you do not accept it... Although I would very much like to hear what is the problem with this, what is the problem with this proposal that I have made, for example, that, say, in a match, the territorially competent police will carry out security tasks. If they don't trust the police, who do they trust? But let's keep going. I have then lived with the suspicion that this will not be proposed - obviously there are several reasons for this - or they will not support it, but then I said - and this has already been said here by Congressman Varga and by my fellow Member Szilágyi - that, if this is not supported, how is there, in all areas of life, where private security firms and individuals are employed, from banks through shops to trade, from different segments of the economy, there are different regulations everywhere, for which a guardian protection company exists. Your man will have to comply. It is a requirement not only to carry out different courses, but also to have a moral certificate, which guarantees that it will not become the minions of a club leader, who often play the master of life and death in the field of stadiums. That's what's going on at Fradi, that's what's going on at Kispest, and I don't want to mention all those legitimate, totally legitimate cheerleading complaints when they're all faced with very serious abuse every day by non-criminal fans. Now, you can explain that to me. Why does it hurt you if we order security personnel to have a moral certificate? Why does that hurt you? Because I know why it would hurt Gábor Kubatov, or why it would hurt some club leaders - we know that. You can smile here. I'm just asking everyone to press a button. Press the button and talk about what you think this proposal has changed compared to what we've done before. Because it was said here that yes, there are progress, but in essence, and based on what was common ground at the two committee meetings, at least on President Kósa's part, there was a common denominator with us that the security situation was unsustainable, the processing of fans is unsustainable. Because there is no such thing anywhere in the world as a thug with, let's say, no moral certificate, and many times, let's say openly, a thug of common law criminals treats the personal data of hundreds and thousands of people, completely illegal. I would add that even the MLSZ can't handle it, at least under the laws in force, he can't handle it, but we publish it to different groups that otherwise use it to deal with matters that have nothing to do with football or sports or cheerleading in the world, to contact, blackmail, or, where appropriate, abuse. Now, answer me this: for example, the one amendment, that these people have a moral certificate, why it hurts you, and what is the obstacle to that. Because after the two committee meetings, I am amazed to read that there is no such thing. And you, who always come with the idea of order, a family-friendly match that you think hasn't been... - I would add that you should go to other matches in other countries and then find out what a family-friendly match is, and it's not really about, say, going to rhymes that a politician doesn't like to listen to. You have to take note of that, too. Football and cheerleading are just like that, sometimes giving an opinion, not necessarily on issues that are closely related to football. [[16.20]] But ever since the world, it's been like this, and as long as the world is around, it's gonna be like this. The big question is, do you want to continue what's happening right now, that cheerleading is outside the stadium, and you'd rather go cheering in front of a screen outside the stadium than inside the stadium? And also consider - your own contradiction, but a roaring great contradiction - what my fellow Member Szilágyi said was that you are selected on the basis of one argument, and that is money, at least in certain stadiums. 'Cause I can be a public-law, malicious person who might want to commit a crime, if I want to get into Fradi Stadium, and I have money, then I can do it without a problem without a venison scanner, a cheerleader card or any other identification. However, if I am poor, but I really go to football games for the love of soccer, or I would like to watch the football match of any team or team, then I have no chance, except to get in after a line of audition that most people may not go through for the quality of Hungarian football. Because Hungarian football will not be good because of what you have invented, but it can be cozy or attractive because of what we experience in stadiums in other countries, and even before your rampage, we experienced in Hungary in the matches of larger Hungarian clubs and clubs with large cheer camps. But a word, like a hundred, I would really just like to ask you, not at the end of the debate, to answer in the form of a meaningless prank, as is customary, but to press a button, and answer these very legitimate criticisms, and if you really want order, then let us start with the head, not always kicking into the unknown crowd, as you like to do, but then let the order begin to take the first round, and there we will ensure the basic moral standards, who, by the way, are taking care of order, or their profession would be to take care of order, but you did not, rather than try to try to do so in this proposal, despite the fact that in the two committee meetings you have spoken of something completely different. But it may also be, then, that Lajos Kósa, as a sports and football-friendly man, who knew the problems precisely through the fans of Debrecen, made - and we agreed with him - more proposals, and you, because of another lobby, said Gábor Kubatov's ability to assert his interests, decided not to give it space. This is also a clear, honest answer, but let's stop this squinting that you have just passed a catastrophic law, and we have also said the same thing, speaking to the same people, regardless of party standing, we have told you how it ends: this is not the time for family friends, this is not the time for families to go to matches. Yes, now we see that the Hungarian stadiums are ringing in a really historical time after a trip to the Eb. Thanks to what? Well, thanks to that crappy job you guys put on the table the other day. And now they've brought in another amendment with the aim that we've checked everything that was wrong at the time, and we're contradicting ourselves, because they're using the same arguments exactly the other way around in certain cases, but I'm telling you, if we really think we're trying to fix this, then let's be honest, and I'll accept that if you say that you lost within a faction, Lajos Kósa, and I'm not asking you to do so. But right now, I can start from what was said at the two committee meetings, and there was a very different starting point, and the common denominator was quite different, and I think that can be confirmed by all my fellow Members who attended these committee meetings. But once again, the most important issue of security is to start with those who are concerned first. So I'd like an answer to that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-72	Thank you very much. Two-minute speech, Mr László Varga, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said in the debate and, in fact, I am getting stronger by the fact that what I have proposed in my longer speech, in my speech as a speaker, is a solution to these problems. On the one hand, it has been said what security risks have appeared in recent weeks, even in relation to football matches. For this reason, I consider it an important step if, in high-security-risk matches, the police will carry out the insurance as a public task. And if that is the case, then I think it is incomprehensible why, in the case of football sports, the high-security risk matches should insist on individual identification in this way. What I can tell you is that in the sectors where the viewers are used to this - family sectors, others - it is important to understand the requests of the organised support groups, their concerns, and otherwise, while the entrance gates are in operation, there are searches, there are police officers, who can, of course, even justify Hungarian citizens, and for the ultras, it could be a serious step if this unique identification were to be avoided at least in part of the stadiums. I think that if you could accept this - although I do not know who to say it to - because neither Lajos Kósa is here now, nor Erik Bánki, nor Gábor Kubatov; I very much hope that someone will listen to or can interpret my words in this respect - if this amendment goes through and is adopted, there will be a return of organized cheerleading groups, there will be a atmosphere in sports facilities, but also security, because the proper entry can be done independently, and at the same time those sectors and family sectors that are of a different nature can remain, which I think are important. So they could be crowds at football matches. I will submit this proposal. Please consider your support. Thank you.
u2015-12-01-74	We will return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is next, MSZP. Here.
u2015-12-01-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, A little disoriented from the problem of FTC fans arguing with each other from different parties, let me ask you, at least I did not find it in the budget law at the police chapter, and if I understand it correctly, this rule says that it will be a public task to guarantee security at these sporting events; there was a previously signed budget line, which used to provide resources for sporting events. In Hungarian: since the 2016 budget has already been adopted, this law would enter into force from 1 January 2016, is there any problem with it if the police will have to perform this task at these events? This is, of course, overtime, and this is extra for the police. Did the national secretary of state calculate what additional costs or budgetary resources should be provided in order to ensure smooth operation in 2016 as scheduled for all sports events with specific risks? In English: do they consider it necessary to amend the budget, or were these budgetary resources already planned to be available? I couldn't find it, but it might be my fault. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-01-76	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik!
u2015-12-01-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In my previous speech, after such a historic success as the Hungarian-Norwegian, in the next championship round 8500 people are there, according to the cosmetic audience. What could be the reason for this? Let us consider, for example, the German Championship, and the German bleachers culture and service there - why there is exactly the opposite in Germany, so what it takes for families, fans and viewers to go to a stadium. What are the reasons they're leaving? First of all, because they are served because it is a family event, because three hours before the match, let's say, there are programs and there is a tournament for the whole match that is not just about the match, but about a program. It's because there's a mood in these stadiums, because they're enjoying themselves in these stadiums. And in order to be in the mood, we need the fans. I highlight the German Championship because there are fans in the German Championship, while, if you look at, say, the English Championship, which you often refer to, and you watched last time, let's say, the Liverpool European League match, where there was a full house, you could still hear the players shouting, because everyone was just sitting quietly and watching, say, the match, if any. So I'm going to repeat the German examples because they're being served, and that's what they are. [[16.30]] Has this come true for us? No. And what is the reason why families are missing matches? Let's start by listing the reasons why we should. One of the reasons is that you made a bad law, you adopted it, even though we said it here in Parliament three years ago or two years ago, we had international examples where you wanted to introduce the cheer card, that it would be a problem and a problem, and you didn't believe it, and you said you would know it better, because you have the Philosopher's Stone. Then we got to the point where we didn't. All segments of football should be addressed, so only in terms of why and what is important to football viewers, as I said, in Germany. We shouldn't really be dealing with professional issues here, I guess, 'cause everybody knows how to play football. I don't even want to focus on the current level of Hungarian football, but I will mention one thing to you, which will best show you the last 20-25 years why Hungarian football has kept you here. Because our Norwegian hero, László Kleinheisler, can't even play in NB III right now because he just kicked the dust with a fidesz potentate. You can laugh about it, but you don't play because you didn't sign the contract with Mr. Garanchi. Therefore, Viktor Orbán is not supposed to play any of his favorite players in NB III. This is the reality of today's football, this is the situation of today's Hungarian football. The other is facility development; we talked about this. So far, they have been damaged facilities, and now an installation development programme has been launched. That would be enough to get the viewers out. The third thing that has a negative impact is the effect of sports corruption. It's the effect of the sports corruption you've been building for the past five years. As part of this sport corruption, all the major associations, all the sports associations and the MOB have your friends, acquaintances, fellow politicians in leadership positions who act like small kings. Let me give you some examples. Cheerleaders need tradition. I find it outrageous that, for example, the new stadium in Ferencváros, built by you from public money, called Albert Stadium, was named Groupama Arena, because there is the money for which the name of Flórian Albert can be replaced. In fact, there is the money that two days ago the Ferencváros Üllői út Stadium could be painted purple. In honor of the T-Mobil, the Ferencváros Üllői út Stadium was shining in purple. They simply crush traditions that are very important to people. And then here is the most important part that should be addressed in the football segment, especially if we agree with the speakers who say that the viewers are the most important in football, their service is the most important, what is the spectators and supporters' service. First of all, we know what the standard is, as it is, it cannot be compared with foreign examples, but it says a lot that Ferencváros, which has a new stadium, which soars in this tournament, has an outstanding performance on the Hungarian level, has a huge reduction in the number of viewers. The second is the question of ticket prices, which has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, because today in Hungary, the price of players entering the match is skyrocketing compared to the standard of living. A family can't afford it much, even if they want to go to all the matches, because it would put a huge burden on the family, and they won't get any service that would be worth it. The other reason we don't have any viewers, the anti- cheerleading measures, the laws, the criminalization of the fans, the difficulty of the game visit, which we talked about a lot. We said it was simply nonsense that if someone wants to go out with these congo bleachers and one afternoon decides to go out to the match and buy a ticket, they can't, because they can't buy a ticket before the match. If you don't have a cheerleader card, you can't buy a pass if you're not willing to get an I.D., you can't buy a pass. It doesn't bother me that much, but, my fellow Member, once again, press a button. Well, I can see you keep saying it, saying your reviews. Tell me, I'd like to hear, I'd like to drink your words that someone is finally willing to argue. I'm sure you have reasons to convince me that I'm not saying the right things. Press the button, I urge you to. There is a general debate to discuss. So they made it difficult to enter. What was the difficulty? Especially with the cheer card and a provision that is unique in the world, it is not used anywhere else except in the Ferencváros Üllői út stadium with the venaszkenner. There's no such thing! There are high-security buildings and institutions like the CIA and the FBI, but they haven't been used anywhere in football stadiums, and I don't think they will in the next period. We talked about discrimination. I don't want to say it again. We were talking about the security services situation, which is nonsense. They're trying to change it here, just not the most important thing I've ever said: a moral certificate. Why not make it a condition for a security company man to have a moral certificate? If someone was at an international cup match - I wasn't in one place - they know that there are security people there who are absolutely polite, they make the person who bought the ticket - because it's important for them to buy it for the next match - to be respected, served, but they also make them feel that if you do something here, you will be the first person to be thrown out of the stadium. And that's very right. This would be the right condition. And finally, the last thing we talked about was what ridiculous conditions travel had. Maybe abolishing mandatory travel is the most positive thing. These errors have been noticed by you, and thanks to Lajos Kósa, the negotiations have started, and we have started asking for opinions. That wouldn't have been a problem, because the fans were there. I went to all the committee meetings and listened to it. They had their arguments straightened out there. I note quietly that a gentleman representing a cheerleader's organization was fired after 11 years on the grounds that he should not go to Parliament and represent the fans, which is a little strange. He sacrificed his job, too. If you'd like, I'll tell you in private who it is, and I'll tell you where you've worked, by the way, at the state office. So they gave their opinions, but when this law was passed, they left out the most important things. They left out exactly the questions the fans asked. And one more thing: nothing else happens with this law but that responsibility is kept separate by Fidesz and the government, saying that I do not make the cheer card mandatory, embodying it to the associations. Fidesz thinks they're not going to be responsible for this situation, if that's the case. What they're wrong about is that, for example, it doesn't matter if Gábor Kubatov decides as president of Fradi that the fans can't go in, but with a cheerleader card, he's still Fidesz. It's still going to stay on the Fidesn this whole thing. So nothing changes. It doesn't change! We could ask what's changing in this situation, but nothing. Then let's go to the law amendment and see why nothing changes. And here are the two most important things. How many games are there in one round? Six. Out of these six matches, if we buy only four teams, each one of which will be highlighted and not play against each other, then four matches will be highlighted immediately. Why should we make a difference? By the way, you will distinguish between normal and high-priority matches, but there will be no difference, as they say that no entry system is required for normal safety risk matches, with access systems for high-security players. But if something happens in the normal match and there was no access system, you'll get a more severe punishment than if you've applied the entry system. What are they gonna do? A system of entry will also be used for the normal risk match. It's obvious. You have to use the entry system for the high-level matches, and you're next, number four. In paragraph 3, it is immediately stated that if the entry system is applied, the association may, together with the club card, require the replacement of the fan card or club card. What's gonna happen? They're gonna make it mandatory. That's the key question. That's why fans don't go to matches. And we're not just talking about the camps who are staying away from the matches right now. A lot of people tend to project it with only cheer camps missing from the games. No! Since the atmosphere disappeared along with the cheer camps, a lot of viewers don't even have fans who otherwise wouldn't be in the cheer camp. And there are a lot of people who are in solidarity with cheer camps, and that's why they're not going out. So we can talk about thousands of people who aren't even in the cheer camp. Therefore, the cardinal question is whether there is a cheerleader card or no cheerleader card. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has tabled an amendment that leaves almost everything in this system. There's an entry gate, there's a name-name ticket sales, so we can keep the high-profile matches, and we can keep the venus scanner. [[16.40]] One thing this amending proposal says is that the use of a cheerleader and club card cannot be made compulsory. So there can be no condition for a match visit to have a cheerleader card. From now on, the cheerleader will decide whether he wants to go to a match with a cheerleader card and a venuskenner, or just go there, give his details, and enter the match with a name ticket. You and those club leaders will be able to decide whether to give the fans discounts for the club card so that they can voluntarily replace this club card, so it's not mandatory, it's voluntary. That's the key word. The fan card is not mandatory, but can be used on a voluntary basis. If they are willing to accept this, there can indeed be a change from the current situation, if they refuse to accept it, there will be no change. Everything stays the same as it was, which is why we're supposed to be negotiating this law. So there's no point in adopting a law that won't change the situation. That is why we want to adopt a law that will change the situation. So what would the Jobbik Movement for Hungary want? The fact that the fan card should not be mandatory cannot be a condition for a match visit. That is what we are asking of you, that is what we are demanding, and that is why we have tabled the amendment, and we want the fans to finally return to the bleachers and return to the atmosphere with them. We are convinced that this will result in an increase in numbers. All it takes is a little modesty on your part, undressing that pride, that eccentricity. [[János Pócs: Did you look in the mirror?]] With the only password... Congressman, talk to him. We're not talking about melons, but you can talk to him. [[Defiance.]] Press a button, too. It's okay. Trust me. Talk to him, don't yell at me. So that's what we want. And how can security be guaranteed in this case in the stadiums? Absolutely guaranteed. Why can I guarantee it? Because there will be a name tag, because there are cameras and there are laws in Hungary. And if these laws are enforced, if these laws are applied, and they can identify the rioters on the spot, and if they can ban them from the stadiums, then the cheer card is not a condition for order in the stadium. That's what we say. There is nothing you should do, I say, but accept the proposed amendment to the Jobbik Hungary Movement. And if you accept this amendment, the most important sentence of which is that the visit to the sports event is not a condition for replacing the club card - if this sentence is not included, the fans will probably continue to insist that they will not visit the matches. We can adopt this law, which means you can adopt this law yourself, but there will be no significant change. However, I think it would be in our best interest and aim that if there are already beautiful stadiums and in these beautiful stadiums 20,000 people could cheer at a championship match, then the greater the number of people are there and the greater the number of people can enjoy these new facilities. But to do that, I'm gonna say it again, you guys should do a great job, you should have a big role to play. Congressman Pócs has left, so I take it we will no longer discuss the mysteries of the melon sale. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Firtl Mátyás, as rapporteur, if he wishes to react. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After a very long general debate, I would like to say to my fellow Members that I have experienced and sat through this at committee meetings. I have also listened to Congressman Varga, Mr Szilágyi's argument system. What Congressman László Varga said, in fact, at the beginning, with his political reflection, I would not argue in particular, I would not deal with it, but his findings are acceptable, however, that some kind of foresight is being made in this amending proposal. He stated that he had tabled an appropriate amendment. I ask you with respect to do this. As far as Mr Szilágyi's comment for almost half an hour is concerned, I can only say, Mr President, that he sometimes contradicts the fact that the attendance of the matches depends only on the fact that there is this particular cheer card, the travel system. That's what's been going on so far. It's all gone now, what you've been talking about. But I think that the fights are not just because they were, honourable Member. Maybe we should look around somewhere else, but I don't think I'm gonna be able to see why people aren't going out yet. When you tell me how much an entrance is, it's the club's job to give you a ticket for what it's worth. Don't tell me that Parliament decides how much a club will pay for their entrance fee. I don't want to stick it like this anymore. Then comes the next problem. You're very fond of sports, football, I've heard it many times, not only here, but also at committee meetings. Isn't it important when you say how to go to a stadium, what kind of environment should be provided? You can criticize the stadium program. But in this law, when we deal with it, we provide exactly the viewers with the right cultural opportunity to cheer. In this case, it wasn't a good thing to note, because you, too, feel like you're dying to play football, then you have a fundamental interest in having really good stadiums available. And I should like to quote László Varga, when, on an immediate question in the autumn, he noted to the Prime Minister that a DVTK stadium should also be built. The goal is to have the right stadiums available so you can get out. And the fact that when we talk about moral certificates in stadiums, honourable Member, you do not mention it in your amendment proposal. When Mirkóczki's fellow Member notes this as his main point, I can say from the rapporteur's side that it should be submitted and then the rapporteur will examine how he can act, accept or not accept the amendment. And what you see as a security breach, my fellow Member Mirkóczki, I can tell you that it is only in low note when we travel anywhere by plane, that we do not accept some protests for our own safety when we have to check in? We need to approach this situation a little more tolerantly. Here it is necessary to give Mr Mesterházy the truth when he says that security and the possibility of visiting must be combined. There, too, it is said that security must, in some way or other, be created in an appropriate way in the present situation. There was a reference to the event in Paris, to the events in Germany. In Paris, the security guard was able to stop the bombing. So these points, I think, we have to accept them. And the criticism of who passed this law after 2009: they have made it, we have come to the point that, on the basis of joint work, these amendments must nevertheless be implemented. That this could happen, I would like to say that it is indeed because of President Lajos Kósa. After all, he has put it on the agenda in the Defence and Police Committee, and that is why we have come to the point that this amendment has been discussed here in general today, in fact with the amendments that I propose to you, and I ask you to do so. I can conclude by saying that, despite criticism, I would like to ask you to support this sport law with these amendments. 'Cause there won't be a cheerleading trip in the future, but there won't be a mandatory cheerleader card against what you're saying. Because that's exactly what we're trying to stop. And what concerns the only club that he gives as an example is contrary, because despite everything, there is the highest number of viewers, and there is 20 grand of viewers even when Norway won a game or did not win, in that stadium there is certainly the highest number of viewers despite those measures. Well, so much for that approach you said. [[16.50]] In the other stadiums, there are opportunities for fans to be given the circumstances, the opportunities and the entrance fees to be properly visited, and the tone and order must be kept so that families can actually go out to participate in a civilized football match. I would ask my fellow Members to make their amendments and, of course, in the final vote, to support the implementation of the legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-80	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, in the light of Croatia's accession to the European Union, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/776. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We want to comply with an administrative formality with this amendment, as Croatia's accession to the EU took place during the time that there was already a free trade agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Korea. This was signed on 6 October 2010 and applied on a provisional basis from 1 June 2011. As Croatia joined the EU on 1 July 2013, it became necessary for Croatia to become a Contracting Party to the Agreement in the form of an additional protocol. This free trade agreement aims at liberalising trade in goods and services between the parties, investment and government procurement markets, removing barriers to trade and protecting intellectual property rights. For example, the agreement created a new opportunity to expand trade and investment relations between Hungary and the Republic of Korea and to increase Korean exports of players in the Hungarian economy. This relationship is changing very nicely and dynamically. Fortunately, our trade turnover has decreased by 60 percent during this time, and our exports are growing nicely. We are also talking about EUR 236 million in 2014. The Additional Protocol, under which Croatia becomes a Contracting Party to the Agreement, amends certain provisions of the Agreement in the light of the accession of Croatia and provided for the provisional application of the Additional Protocol until 1 July 2013 by an earlier Council Decision. This bill provides for the publication of the additional protocol. I request the Parliament's consent and support for the legislative publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Korea. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As the President-in-Office of the European Union, Hungary has supported the conclusion of accession negotiations with Croatia. The Treaty of Accession was signed on the closing day of the Hungarian Presidency. In the political and economic environment at the time, the result was only in favour of the Hungarian attitude. Following the ratification process, Croatia became the 28th Member State of the European Union from 1 July 2013. Dear fellow Members, After several years of negotiations, the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Korea signed a free trade agreement in 2010. Negotiations were opened in September 2012 so that Croatia could join this Treaty. The purpose of this proposal is to allow our southern neighbour to take advantage of this opportunity on the basis of an additional protocol. Dear House, Croatia is traditionally an important partner of Hungary. The bilateral trade flows are growing year after year, Hungary is the fourth largest investor in Croatia after Austria, the Netherlands and Germany. In 2014, 366 thousand Hungarian tourists spent nearly 2 million nights in Croatia. The number of guests coming here is less, but is constantly rising. The relationship between the two countries has traditionally been good, although the migrant crisis, which has developed during the election campaign with the closure of the Hungarian green border, has been a bit shaky. However, the President of the State, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, appreciates the fact that Hungary has been a constant witness to its friendship with Croatia since 1990. Dear fellow Members, On the basis of what has been said, it is clear that it is important not only for the Croatian economy but also for the Hungarian economy that Croatia can benefit from the free trade agreement. I therefore ask that, like the Fidesz and KDNP fractions, you support this proposal by voting in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-12-01-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In view of Croatia's accession to the European Union, I would like to share some thoughts with you on the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part. Korea has always been a key free trade partner in the EU's trade policy strategy. Thus, negotiations have already started in Seoul in May 2007, at the end of which both parties initiated the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement on 15 October 2009. On 16 September 2010, the Council approved the Agreement, which was also formally signed in Brussels on 6 October 2010 under the EU-Korea Summit. On 17 February 2011, the European Parliament gave its consent to the Free Trade Agreement, which has been applicable since 1 July of the year. The Agreement was signed by Hungary in XCVII of 2011. It's been announced by law. The adoption of the law was supported by the MSZP parliamentary group. The EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement is the most comprehensive free trade agreement ever concluded by the EU and the first with an Asian partner country. The agreement is unprecedented in terms of both its scope and the intended pace for removing barriers to trade. At the end of the transitional periods, practically all import duties in force will be abolished. It also implements far-reaching liberalisation of telecommunications, environmental, shipping, financial and legal services. The FTA is expected to create new trade opportunities in goods and services and investment of nearly EUR 20 billion. Further market access through the FTA will strengthen the position of European suppliers on the Korean market. In addition, the parties agreed on specific commitments to remove non-tariff barriers to trade in, inter alia, the automotive industry, the pharmaceutical industry and the electronics sector. In particular, it contains provisions on the elimination of trade barriers which were considered by the Union industry as the main obstacles to exports to Korea. In the case of electronic consumer goods, Korea will accept many European standards as equivalent and recognise European certificates and eliminate bureaucracy, which was a major obstacle to trade. [[17.00]] Finally, exporters of pharmaceutical products and medical devices will benefit from further transparency in pricing decisions. The EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement is therefore a Win-win agreement that both parties consider as a model for agreements with other countries in the region. The Republic of Croatia acceded to this Agreement as a member of the EU on 8 November 2013. As is known, in the vote of 1 December 2011, the European Parliament gave its consent to the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, with 564 votes in favour, 38 against and 32 abstentions. The Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union was signed 8 days later, on 9 December, in Brussels and entered into force on 1 July 2013. On 13 February 2012, the Hungarian Parliament decided to announce the Treaty on Croatia's accession to the EU with 334 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. This Hungarian legislation confirmed the contract as second after Slovakia. The Fidesz government noted as an extraordinary success that on the last day of the Hungarian EU Presidency, on 30 June 2011, Croatia's accession negotiations were concluded, stressing the historical importance of friendship between the two peoples. In connection with the accession, MEP György Schöpflin pointed out that Hungarians and Croatians sat in the same Parliament before 1918, but now we can meet our neighbours across Dráván in the European Parliament. Although Hungary and Croatia's bilateral relations in the last two decades - apart from MOL-INA - have not been covered by open political questions, in recent years we have unfortunately found that the head of Hungarian diplomacy has spoken about the unprecedented low point in Hungarian-Croatian relations. It seems that Hungarian foreign policy in Orbán-Sijjártó is no longer committed to developing our relations and maintaining our partnership in the long term. However, foreign economic-oriented foreign affairs management could at least assess the fact that more than 1100 Hungarian companies deliver their goods to Croatia every year, and 400 companies import them from Croatia. Croatia's role is therefore extremely important for the export markets of small and medium-sized companies in Hungary. The most important Hungarian exports include food, mineral products and energy sources, chemical, plastic and rubber products, machinery, equipment and vehicles. Energy sources, polymers and sugar represent a significant part of the import. The most important investments from Hungary to Croatia are the investments of OTP Bank, Dunapack and MOL. The strategic partnership between MOL and INA is an important basis for our energy cooperation. MOL became the largest owner of INA by purchasing INA shares, 47.15 percent of the shares. At the same time, bilateral energy relations have been seriously shadowed by MOL's offer to purchase an outstanding share of INA shares after December 2010. It was considered by the Croatian Government to be an enemy buying-in. On 21 June 2011, the leading Croatian newspapers - citing sources of investigative research - brought the news as a complete fact that Zsolt Hernádi, CEO of MOL, bribed the former Croatian Prime Minister with EUR 10 million during the INA privatisation. Later it turned out that the restaurant video recorded as evidence was recorded months after Prime Minister Sanader resigned, six months after the Croatian government transferred MOL to INA's management rights. It is a fact that MOL-INA clearly overshadowed bilateral cooperation and that the issue is essentially a burden in relations, but the development of political relations and further cooperation is essentially a barrier to addressing the refugee issue. The Hungarian veto of Croatia's accession to the Schengen area and the statements of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade by Péter Szijjártó who rated the Croatian Prime Minister and the Hungarian-Croatian relations only made the situation worse. The Hungarian-Croatian bilateral political relations are at a low point, the relationship between the two countries has never been worse. 'Péter Szijjártó,' said Péter Szijjártó, after his discussion with the President of the Central right-wing Croatian Democratic Community of the opposition. Did the Hungarian Foreign Minister really expect the improvement of Hungarian-Croatian relations from his visit to a opposition party? Due to the refugee crisis, an unjustified declaration war and slashing developed to the point that the Hungarian-Croatian Friends' Circle presidency was also concerned about the events and declarations that took place in the Hungarian-Croatian context. For this reason, the governments of both countries were asked in a declaration to make a modest statement out of respect for each other when assessing the other party's actions. The president of the circle of friends, György Csóti, former Hungarian Ambassador to Zagreb, former Parliamentary Representative of Fidesz, also insisted on almost a thousand years of unparalleled historical cooperation between Hungary and Croatia. Then he asked, "What do we have to lose by freezing relationships? It would be difficult to list. - quote from him. However, Péter Szijjártó did not listen to the warnings of his former fellow Member, and after his visit to HDZ, he now openly expected his victory in the election. The Minister said: "I see that our political relations are at a very low point at the moment. We will see what decisions the Croatian people make in the parliamentary elections, and we will see the development of our political relations in accordance with them, but it does not seem that the revolution expected by Péter Szijjártó has occurred in Croatian internal politics. Together with the allies of the Social Democratic Party that has been ruling so far, it can hold 67 mandates, while the HDZ, which Fidesz had hoped for, could start government formation negotiations with only 59 mandates. However, the Hungarian government not only supported HDZ in the Croatian elections spectacularly, but also actively intervened in the Hungarian parliamentary elections in Croatia. Árpád Potápi State Secretary for National Policy in Várdaróc near Osijek asked the Hungarians in Croatia to take part in the parliamentary elections on 8 November and to vote on the Hungarian list, and to vote on the Democratic Community of Croatian Hungarians. It is not known on what basis the representative of the Hungarian Government considers which Hungarian organization in Croatia has set up a Hungarian list, and why the list of HMDK is Hungarian, and the Association of Hungarian Associations does not. Sándor Juhász, president of the MESZ and, for the second term, the Hungarian Parliamentary Representative of Croatia is Hungarian, because he claims to be Hungarian. Even the Hungarian government can't deny him that. Unfortunately, the election in Croatia once again showed that Fidesz did not give up on the division of Hungarian communities abroad, on the discrimination of certain organisations. Even now, the independence of Hungarians' organisations in Croatia has not been respected, even though many of the failing businesses and party foundings of Fidesz should have made it clear that they have to acknowledge the adult age of Hungarian communities across the border. They can decide who they want to vote for, who represents them and their interests in Croatian legislation this time. Returning to the bill before us, it is worth mentioning that the purpose of the Additional Protocol to the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement is to ensure that this Member State is fully involved in the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement, in accordance with the EU Accession Act. Therefore, under the Additional Protocol, Croatia becomes a Contracting Party to the Free Trade Agreement, i.e. the name of the Member State is added to the list of Contracting Parties to the Agreement. Under the Additional Protocol, the provisions of the Free Trade Agreement will apply to goods and services exported from Korea to Croatia and from Croatia to Korea which comply with the provisions of the Agreement. The MSZP faction supported the adoption of a legislative proposal for a free trade agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part. Accordingly, it also supports the adoption of the Additional Protocol, which allows Croatia to participate in the Free Trade Agreement. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-12-01-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs, lead speaker for Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-12-01-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union and the Republic of Korea signed the Free Trade Agreement in 2010, which entered into force in 2011. The agreement was unprecedented both in its scope and in its intended pace of removal of trade barriers. Croatia joined the European Union in 2013, as we know, which is why the Additional Protocol under discussion needs to be announced. [[17.10]] This free trade treaty is important for Europe, as Korea's second most important external trade partner is the European Union after China. Under the signed agreement, 98 percent of customs duties will be broken down within five years from 2011 onwards, thus facilitating trade between the two parties. The agreement also opened a front for the removal of significant non-tariff barriers to trade, in particular in the automotive sector, the pharmaceutical industry, medical devices and the electrotechnical sector. The agreement has created new market access opportunities for services and investment and has led, for example, to important progress in the field of intellectual property, government procurement or competition policy. However, it is important to point out that the EU has been very careful in this free trade agreement, because during the negotiations it has been possible to integrate a safeguard clause into this treaty in order to protect European industry. Korea is also a very important partner for Hungary, as there are several large companies in the country: Hankook, although they are not often praised, Samsung or KDB. This important link can be further expanded by Croatia joining this free trade zone, which also opens up new opportunities for Korean companies operating in our country. Jobbik therefore supports the publication of the Additional Protocol, encouraging the Government to take advantage of this opportunity in further negotiations with Korean companies. We will never forget to stress that Jobbik is a committed believer in the concept of a Europe of nations, but during the Euroatlantic accession and the Euroatlantic integration process we have always provided wide-ranging Hungarian support to Croatia, even if energy cooperation, which is a key issue in our relations, sometimes seems more like an energy competition. Let's think about the INA case here. Or we could also bring up the anti-Hungarian mood, which, in the context of the migrant crisis, has often been raised by Prime Minister Zoran Milanović in recent months. However, it should be added that Croatia is a very important trade and economic relationship for Hungary, but Croatia has been in recession since 2008 and what is bad for the Croatian economy is bad for the Hungarian economy in this way, because if we are thinking about foreign trade, it must be said that since 1995 this expansion has been very dynamic, as it has increased tenfold between the two countries. It is very, very commendable that we have Hungarian activity, this Hungarian activity is about a quarter to three quarters proportional. With regard to investments in Croatia, it must be said that EUR 2.5 billion is the sum of Hungarian investments. This represents about 9-10 percent of the total investment there. So Hungary is the fourth in Croatia in this order of investments. In view of the position of bilateral trade in Croatia, Hungary is in the sixth place as a whole. That is why it would be very important, let us say, to boost our transport connections, and in Croatian-Hungarian relations we should not only talk about such international conventions, but let us say that it would not be bad either, I say, as a South-Transdanubian representative, so that the M6 motorway is now not only in propaganda voices, but also in the interests of the people living there. Or I could mention road 67, which would be nice if Szigetvár actually made it to the border once. It would be very important to further develop the so-called pan-European corridor V/B, the transport corridor, as well as to exceed the slightly snail tread we usually experience, especially considering that the second largest partner of the port of Fiume is Hungary. As a representative of South Somogy, so from the border, from the Croatian-Hungarian border, I must say a few things here. My fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, has included Croatian-Hungarian relations, which have recently become rather frozen, in his speech and speech as a keynote speaker. Well, as a history teacher, I must definitely mention the fact that we must not start with the behaviour of the current Croatian government. It should also be stressed here that the two peoples are bound by much stronger ties and relationships, as our millennia of coexistence and friendship has a common and deep historical past that connects these two peoples with exactly as strong bonds as, say, the characteristic tree of the Croatian-Hungarian border area, along the Drava, the Slavonian oak. There is no storm that actually shakes this, even a Zoran Milanović is not enough to do this, at least in terms of historical perspectives. Just as the roots of such an old tree giant grasp into the landscape, so the common armament between the two peoples over the centuries grabs the soul of all Hungarian and Croatian people, even though from the left side, this gun friendship is often considered to be a fascist romance of some sort. By the way, this is more than just gun friendship, and if we draw up historical examples, we can refer not only to the Stones' Szeg protected by Jurisics, not only to the Szigetvár protected by Zrinyi, where we have jointly defended Europe, which is often unthankful to conquerors, but also to the busy everyday life. So not only did we harvest order on the bloody bastions, but also on the golden wheat fields. I can say this, I think, with absolute certainty, because I have come from a place, from Barcs, where the Croatian people in the Croatian villages in the area, Potony, Lakocsa, Tótújfalu, Szentborbás, live their daily lives in peace and friendship to this day. So these are the things that, at one time or another, if criticism occurs on the other, we should also pay attention to these voices and live up to these things, because we believe, by the way, that they can hear these voices within Croatia. Let any government come here in Hungary or in Croatia, these historic pillars, these common values of ours, can really help us through this very fruitful and centuries-old historical past, because we have lived together for 800 years in good and bad, under a crown, as an independent nation, anyway. [[Dr. István Józsa: Under what crown?]] Under the rule of the Holy Crown, my fellow socialists, even if that word, this term, may sound like incense to the devil. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: Habsburg.]] It could have some kind of effect on you. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's why we avoid the dome.]] Yeah, we had that feeling, by the way. However, it is important to know that, while that Europe, which is so often so ignominious towards Hungary and the Hungarians, denied us, while we defended this Christian European civilisation culture circle, this sense of abandonment was not only part of us, but also of our Croatian friends, our Croatian brothers, because while, let's say, in 1566, the army of the Habsburgs lined up to protect Győr, and their little finger was not moved in order to intervene on the side of the Croatian-Hungarian troops protecting Szigetvár heroically, the same Croatians suffered in 1991, when they were also faced with one of Europe's strongest armies, and, indeed, Europe sank into the impotence swamp of liberalism did not help them in 1991. In fact, they had to free themselves in 1995 during Operation Storm. They thought, as all the small people and small nations here must think, as a Hungarian writer, Attila György Székely, put it in his book Book of Warriors, who suggested that you look around, count your ancestors, morals, country, god, and stick to him with your sword drawn in your hand. [[17.20]] This is how the Croatians were able to preserve themselves and their national independence, and if we look at this and join together many small nations of Eastern Central Europe, so that we can preserve it for the next decades and centuries, as we hope. That would have been about as much as I would have added to my fellow Member Mesterházy's comment. Let us not forget these common and, once again, very positive historical parables, not only that, because of the suicide Western Merkelist attitude, the continent-seizure wave of the peoples and the countries of this country has created such differences between the small peoples living here, but let us also remember these very positive things during the debate of such a bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-88	Dear Parliament, Since we're at the end of the lead speaker's round, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-12-01-89	If I have already addressed you to my better fellow Member, then I probably did not say it exactly, but it was not about what my better fellow Member was talking about. My comment was precisely about the fact that there are topical policy issues in the Hungarian-Croatian relationship today that are burdened with this traditionally good Croatian-Hungarian relationship. I did not consciously quote a MSZP representative or former member of government when I wanted to describe, where appropriate, how good and supportive Croatian-Hungarian relations were in the past, but I quoted them directly from a Fidesz representative, indicating that these relations were indeed through governments, thanking God, very positive. Nevertheless, it is always worth mentioning that not only in history, but also in the future, it is worth expressing thoughts. The past is very important, especially in order not to make the same mistakes that we have made in the past, but it is the present and the future that I think is of particular importance in the relationship between the two countries. So in Hungarian, I think that it is important for every such protocol to express Hungary's support for Croatia on the basis of mutual respect and on the basis of common traditions and historical roots, but it is also important to stress that the statements that overshadow this relationship are not good. I see that I think that Péter Szijjártó has confused the role of Fidesz spokesperson with the role of foreign minister in recent weeks, as foreign minister in months. A foreign minister's priority is not to escalate conflicts between countries, but to try to smooth them out, if that is the case, rather than to contribute to the recent flare-up of those conflicts. This is especially the case when there is an election campaign in a neighbouring country. We ourselves are politicians, and we know precisely that in a political campaign, in many cases heated moods, even reckless sentences can be said between political, competitive parties. But precisely because we know how this happens during a campaign, we must therefore bear it with much greater empathy, attention and understanding towards the neighbouring countries or towards the political parties there. That's one thing. The other is that I cannot accept it and I do not believe that this is a correct strategy, that Fidesz has previously started a policy of division in Transylvania, that it is pursuing the same policy in many cases with regard to the Highlands, and from now on there has been a recent example of this for Croatia, which I have also spoken about in my comment. I merely wanted to draw attention to the fact that we should trust Hungarian communities across borders to know who can best represent their interests, and that we should not export Hungarian internal politics to the border, because this is certainly an intervention in their autonomy, and I do not think that Budapest can be better told what is good for the Hungarians in Croatia or for the Hungarians in Slovakia or Transylvania. I think it should be left to them to decide for themselves, and let them choose and define their own program, which then determines their future. So in Hungarian, I merely wanted to emphasise that Hungary may have a little obligation to support Croatia, to reflect on the people and the politicians who live there, regardless of whether the government that is running the country is for your own good or for someone else's own good. Just as we are not happy if they want to get involved in Hungarian internal politics, others are not happy about it either, and it is natural that we should always look to the future and shape it in such a way that it is the most fruitful for both countries and for both nations. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-01-90	Mr Ander Balázs asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2015-12-01-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time, just to clarify a little between us the possible Polemia, as regards the Hungarian political parties in Croatia, I agree with you a hundred percent, because Jobbik was probably the very first political party to say that the government's policy of dividing Hungarian political forces across the border is very harmful, very harmful for Hungarians living there, which is why we need to join forces and we do not have to drag it down into the swamp of party politics, which has unfortunately happened, we see it, we see it. That is why we welcomed, let us say, the Transcarpathian - this leads us very far - the success of the local elections in Transcarpathia, which has clearly demonstrated that only cooperation can be the alternative for Hungarians living in torn areas. What I was talking about here was not about that, but, unfortunately, the historical relations between the two countries, Croatia and Hungary, perhaps not as deep as they are now, given the Jellasichi times. There's a reason for that. I also added that this reason is not primarily to be found in Hungary or Croatia, no matter what the colour of the current leadership in Croatia. The reason goes a little further, right there, into the circle of those who have launched this whole wave of immigration and continents, jumping at each other, by the way, small countries and small peoples living in Eastern Central Europe, south-eastern Europe. That's what we need to get over, that's what I've been trying to explain, and bringing up so many centuries of very positive examples. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that we can build on safely. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-92	Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As there is no further speech, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. The amendment proposals, Honourable Parliament, will be available on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 XXXIV on the organisation involved in the settlement of certain disputes relating to the design and execution of works and the modification of certain laws in relation to the prevention of chain debts and late payments. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/7830. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Lepsényi, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, author. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Following the start of the economic crisis in the Hungarian construction sector, the ever-increasing chain debt until 2013 threatened the existence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and employment indicators in the macro-financial sector through the closure of investments and the drastic deterioration of competitiveness. Stopping the process and preventing future re-production has become a national economic issue. [[17 .30]] Recognizing the need to deal with and resolve the situation that has become unsustainable, in March 2013 the Government of Hungary submitted a bill to the Honourable Parliament to set up a body for the financial stability of businesses to speed up the enforcement of the remuneration for the performances resulting from the contract by means of civil law. Following the adoption of the bill and the publication of the related government decree, the Performance Certification Expert Body was established and started operating with effect from 1 July 2013, in short: TSZSZ. Dear Parliament, Many of the government's measures since 2013 to reduce chain debt and the black economy are increasingly being certified by the operation of, among other things, the PES. A total of 320 applications were submitted to the organisation, according to the balance sheet of the first two-year activity of the TDSZ. The total investment value of the applications exceeded HUF 60 billion, the largest disputed amount was HUF 1.5 billion and the smallest HUF 315 thousand. The amount of the disputed amounts marked was close to HUF 9.5 billion. Thanks to the successful operation of the TSA, there has been such a welcome result that the chain debt has fallen enormously. According to a survey carried out by the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs in October 2014 and July 2015, only 20 per cent of their turnover was over 60 days, and 90 per cent of their turnover has already been declared safe to recover. The value of the construction chain debt of more than HUF 400 billion three years ago has been halved, while no more significant debts have been placed in the system. The assessment of the AGENCY also confirms the significant role played by the SDS, which is also unique in the international outlook, in the reduction of chain debt. Based on the experience of the past period, it can therefore be concluded that one of the most important objectives of the establishment of the PES is to help micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Furthermore, the increasing visibility and efficiency of the operation of the TSZS indicate that a number of feedback is received, according to which the mere existence of the TSZS has already had a deterrent effect, in many cases it was enough to raise the possibility of turning to the TSZS in order for the withheld payment to take place. Dear Parliament, The last two years' operation of the TSZSZ has demonstrated that it is possible to effectively and successfully combat chain debts that create serious problems in the construction sector. The basic purpose of the bill presented to you is therefore, on the basis of the experience gained during the past two years' operation of the Performance Certification Expert Body, the amendment of the law, whereby the activity of the MSZ and the expert procedure offered by it will be made more accessible, faster and more effective for more companies. Dear Parliament, In line with the aim of the bill, in addition to judicial experts, persons with technical competence and experience may be members of the TSA, since technical transfer procedures are often examined in expert procedures, the special rules of which are best known and exercised by the technical architects. In order to preserve the original legislative intention, it is appropriate that the technical construction inspector be appointed only as a member of the expert council. The chairman of the expert council and the expert member of the two-member expert council acting in place of the expert council shall continue to be a judicial expert. With regard to the additional obligations for the construction design and construction contract, the new Ptk. and the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement In accordance with the rules of law, the scope of the law is generally extended to guarantees and insurance companies as guarantors. In order to strengthen the cheap, fast and simpler nature of the expert procedure, in cases where a certificate of performance has been issued but the payment has not been made, and the contested gross value does not exceed HUF 6 million, it is appropriate to designate a two-member expert council. In order to further strengthen the objective and non-biased nature of the expert opinion, it is clarified that it cannot be a member of the expert council or an expert acting as an expert in the case may not be the person who has previously acted as an expert on behalf of any party in the construction project which is the subject of the case. In accordance with the current legislation, the inspection of the construction must be carried out on the spot. However, in a number of cases, the work carried out previously by the applicant party has already been verified to be dismantled. In the above cases, if the parties agree on this, there will be no obligation to carry out an on-the-spot inspection, thus making the procedure faster with this amendment. In keeping with the legal deadlines, the TSZS has done its last two years' work at a high professional level, which is mostly shown by a noticeable reduction in chain debt. The amendments described briefly above aim to further increase the effectiveness of this professional work. I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-01-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Bodo, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2015-12-01-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, There is an important bill before us, as it aims to correct and correct a major problem, the system of chain debts in the construction sector. This phenomenon has already been subject to effective measures two years ago, and now, based on the experience of the last two years, there is a need for minor changes. In February 2013, the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, in short: ÉVOSZ, initiated a bill to the government aimed at halting chain debt, from which professional organisations were expected to reduce the number of lawsuits by 30-40 percent at that time. Chain debt threatened the existence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and employment indicators in the macro-financial context through the closure of investments and the deterioration of competitiveness. Stopping the process or preventing future re-production has now become a national economic issue. For the sake of financial stability of undertakings, it is therefore necessary to set up an expert body to speed up the enforcement of remuneration for performances resulting from the contract by means of civil law. On the basis of the accepted proposal, the Performance Certification Expert Body, the SAO, has been set up, as we have heard, which examines, at the request and on behalf of the party concerned, only the technical questions related to the performance of the design, construction and construction tasks. The TSZSZ gives an expert opinion on matters arising from the performance of design, construction and construction contracts, as defined by law, on the assignment of the customer, contractor or subcontractors, examines the performance of the contract, gives an opinion on whether the contract has been performed and, if this has not been carried out or has not been carried out in a manner consistent with the contract, the amount of the consideration due for the performance and, where appropriate, the amount of the additional obligation to provide the contract. The purpose of the PES study is to provide an opinion on which the court can base its judgment in the case. The essential element of the special scheme is that, if the party so requests, the court is obliged to order the interim measure to an amount which, according to the opinion of the TSZSZ, is the contract value of the work performed with full certainty. The purpose of this is to ensure that the party has access to the compensation for the work carried out. The court shall impose a provisional measure on the basis of the opinion of the MSO, so that the expert opinion of the MSO shall include not only an indication of the consideration to be paid if the performance has not been carried out properly, but also when the performance has been completed. Dear House, This was, therefore, the legislative framework adopted by the Parliament on 25 March 2013 and which now requires minor amendments for greater efficiency. [[17.40]] I would like to stress that the results of the regulation at that time have been seen in recent years. According to the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the level of chain debt in the construction sector has decreased significantly in recent years. According to the latest survey of the Alliance, the three years ago, the chain debt of HUF 400 billion was halved, and even though 20 percent of the company's claims are not available in time, most of them are considered foldable. According to the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the reason for the improvement of the situation is that, thanks to the introduction of the construction registration, the sleeper companies have been shut down, terminated, and the Performance Certification Expert Body has been established, which can deal with disputes arising from the completion of architectural, technical planning, construction and construction contracts. Construction data is encouraging. According to KSH's information published in July, construction production was 2.3 percent higher in May than in the previous year, and construction production increased by 7.7 percent in the first five months compared to the same period in the previous year. If the figures for the first seven months of the year estimate the liquidation and winding-up figures for 2015, we can see that there are largely positive trends in all areas of the construction sector in terms of liquidations and winding-ups. On the basis of current data, only the expected increase in the number of firms carrying out construction work from 2014 to 15 is expected to decrease in both liquidations and liquidations in all other areas. Based on the low forced cancellation data for the first seven months of the year, their number is not expected to increase by the end of the year. If there is no drastic regulatory intervention or sudden decline in demand in the construction sector, the construction industry is expected to develop a much more stable structure, supported by the data of the ÉVOSZ and the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. According to a survey carried out by the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs in October 2014 and July 2015, on average 20 percent of the turnover of the construction enterprises was considered to be outstanding over 60 days, and 90 percent of the profits of the undertakings concerned have already been safely recovered. Data thus show positive trends, and demand for real estate will hopefully continue to benefit the sector. The purpose of the bill before us is therefore to abolish the construction chain debts, based on the experience gained in the past two years' operation of the Performance Certification Expert Body established on 1 July 2013 and to amend the relevant law. The basic objective of the draft law is to extend the activities of the MSZ so that the procedure is available to more companies, faster and more efficient. The main amendments are as follows. If there is no appropriate judicial expert, persons with technical building inspectorship and necessary expertise or experience may also be members of the TSZ. In order to strengthen the cheap and rapid nature of the expert procedure, it will also be possible to appoint a council of two experts instead of three when the certificate of performance has been issued, but no payment of less than HUF 6 million has been made. In this case, the President of the Board shall always be the head or deputy of the PES. In specific, specific cases, the on-the-spot visit may be omitted, thus accelerating the expert procedure, requiring a unanimous statement from the parties. During the expert procedure, it will be possible to carry out an on-site instrument test in addition to the laboratory instrument test, which may make the procedure more efficient and cheaper. Expert activity and its remuneration are subject to VAT, which is clearly regulated in the relevant legislation by a textual description of gross amounts. If the law is adopted, it shall enter into force on 1 May 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, If you consider it important to clean up the construction sector and eliminate the chain debt, please support this proposal and consider the above aspects in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-01-96	Thank you very much. Congressman István Tukacs, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here.
u2015-12-01-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In my rather brief comment, I would first like to talk about the positive elements of the proposal. I consider it a positive element when the opinion of a professional representation appears in the work of the government. In my opinion, it would be a good thing if this happened many times, and it would be a good thing that the government would trust the opinions of professional organisations, interest representatives and others in other cases, and would bring these proposals to the table of Parliament in the proposals for amendments to Parliament's legislation, obviously being properly codified. I welcome the fact that the government will review and amend the rules created, as it does in this case, with regard to the TSZ, in order to make it easier to apply and be good. However, I have a few basic statements to discuss, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members. The Secretary of State said it with caution, but I would like to confirm that the work of the PES does not represent an equal sign of a reduction in chain debt, which is only one of the elements of the reduction in chain debt. To put it simply, the TSZ did not solve the issue of chain debts. I would just like to give you some information, fellow Members. From the beginning of the crisis, construction investments in the European Union fell by 16 percent, which was a 42 percent decline in Hungary. However, the decline in housing construction is 70 percent, and about a quarter of the 40,000 apartments were built - the same can be said for renovations. With 96,000 registered construction companies, 90% was affected by chain debt in this particular amount of 400 billion already mentioned. So here is my statement: the three main reasons for the development of chain debts are that the cake has become smaller, and there was a unchanged player, company number or company on the market to pick up from the smaller cake. Therefore, in the case of chain debts, all the cases that occurred when the customer could not pay the main contractor because of the lack of construction cover, all the reasons when he could no longer meet his subcontractors at a low selling price, or he did not think he had to give a certificate of performance because he could avoid or withdraw the payment, so the reason for all this in the behaviour of the entrepreneurs is that from the beginning of the crisis, I can say otherwise he wanted to share a slightly smaller cake with the same players until today. So that's why the domino effect of chain debt was triggered with different ways of behavior. The other thing I am saying is that 400 billion did not melt so suddenly because the prevention of chain debt has become so effective, but because a crowd of businesses has ceased, and the newly created companies have not been able to really create a counterweight either, since more has ceased than has been created. Therefore, the impossibility of recovering debts was the following reason. My third claim would be that it would probably still be a somewhat more complex review of the issue of chain debt, since I would like to mention the technology - and I would like to mention the positives here again - that, in the case of court proceedings, the opinion of the TSZSZ is decisive, otherwise I agree, but it would be necessary to review again the public procurement rules and the civil code in this case, because, Mr Secretary of State, I have to say, it is no longer the case that chain debt is due to low, depressed prices; now, in the case of public procurement, it seems that its reverse is happening: there are overpriceds, and therefore, the rules on entrepreneurship should be reviewed here as well. [[17.50]] And after a number of people have indicated meta-communications that they approve that if I want to speak briefly on this subject, I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that we would encourage the wallet on our part, even if I may, personally, so that we can meet the matter of settlement of chain debts in Parliament, even outside this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-12-01-98	Thank you very much. I especially appreciate the Member's ability to work well with metacommunications. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-99	Thank you, Mr. President. In the interpretation of meta-communication signals, I am trying to take the lead like my fellow Member, so I am trying to be brief. So, although the subject may seem small to many at first, this amendment is of great importance to the construction industry. If you think about it, surely we all have an acquaintance where small entrepreneurs who are at the end of the pay line for some construction investments, otherwise doing the job fairly, did not receive the benefits they had entered into their contract. We have heard from the Secretary of State, and my fellow Members have also mentioned the establishment of the Performance Certification Expert Body and its results. The importance of the operation of the PESO is not better demonstrated by the fact that up to now 320 applications have been dealt with; the total value of the contested items is close to HUF 10 billion, and the amount determined by the opinions is almost 4 billion. It is a good news that almost half of the applications submitted will name between HUF 1-6 million, which suggests that small entrepreneurs are actually using the opportunities provided by the MSZ. Unfortunately, in many cases, however, applicants do not have a written contract or a procedural error, so it is often impossible to establish the exact correctness of the contested items. The proposed amendment, which has just been tabled, aims to amend the law along the lines of experience gained since its departure, so that the work of the TSA can be as efficient and cheaper as possible, and seeks to rule out the circumstances - which have already been discussed by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member - which make it difficult to draw up professional and impartial expert opinions. It is also important to modify the criteria for the selection and suitability of the members of the body for the purposes set out above. On the other hand, we are therefore talking about an issue that provides support and assistance in a very important sector for Hungarian small businesses, and I therefore propose to support the amendment tabled on behalf of KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-01-100	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, please.
u2015-12-01-101	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr House. Of course, we will support the proposal. However, I would like to point out in a few thoughts which are the amendments that can eliminate those technical problems, or rather, I would like to say that they will open up the possibilities of applying this legal institution, but what we need to see is that this is just a tool to solve the problem. A tool, by the way, my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, will also tell us what other means could be used to eliminate chain debts in Jobbik's programme and in our vision. I was very pleased to see it in 2013 that an institution, an expert body, the Certification Expert Body, could help to assess civil rights needs, and we can often see that if, in a preliminary procedure - as could have been done before notaries and other procedures, but now we stay here in the construction sector - we can give someone the opportunity to pass or sign, and in addition, these people can shorten experts and subsequent court proceedings, they can actually put the parties in a clearer position, and they can say that it is decided or decided who can be right on this issue. And obviously the fulfillment that if there's a need or a will, you can promote it. Of course, in situations where one does not want to pay at all, or engages in these relationships with fraudulent intent, it does not help, but in many cases, I have to say that these differences do not only feed on fraudulent intentions, so an important tool in the Hungarian legal system can be the Certification Expert Body. And that is why we can also welcome the fact that the proposal broadens the scope and opens up its scope by deleting the construction contract. I also have to say that in cases where you do not pay an entrepreneur, the problem is not only that you don't get your money, the cost of the work done and the cost of the material doesn't come in, but if you have already issued the invoice, then the VAT must be paid. And I know that there are arguments for this, that, if, where appropriate, we introduce a system, and in our opinion, it would still be better that it is linked to performance and transfer - in most cases, to transfer, cash delivery is rarer - to payment of VAT, where appropriate, to abuse. But in today's system, there is so much non-payment and it affects so many entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, that it would still be better to switch to a new system, eliminating abuses, I think, as in the current system, not only to keep entrepreneurs at zero, but also in material costs and work, but the state demands VAT on them. We can remember, by the way, there were such problems at the construction of the Megyeri Bridge. By the way, I would like to add that, unfortunately, it appeared in the specialist press that, as a deal between the backup companies linked to Fidesz and the MSZP, the situation was not resolved. I wouldn't bring the political dimension here now, because it's only part of it, but what is very important is that we can see there that not only did people not get their money since then, but they also demanded the payment of these bills. Of course, it can be said to use some kind of equity claim to the state or to the tax authority, but in most cases this is not usually effective. So we're gonna have to figure this out, too. I can see that the Secretary of State is taking notes, so it is also encouraging that the subject may come up again and that common thinking can begin. There's got to be a way to do this. But back to the proposal: we also consider it good to involve people with technical inspection rights, technical inspection rights and, of course, appropriate expertise and experience. We hope that the cost may also be reduced, because we know that the forensic expert is a very expensive genre. In many cases, they are worth their money, and I say it in a good way, so that the fee paid by experts is often paid, so serious expert opinions can be made, but there are cases where we have to say that their activities are very overpriced. Otherwise, this is not just the case for technical expertise. I know the government's been working on a reform of the forensics system in general. And if we have this proposal before us, I would also like to raise - and the Secretary of State is also in a note-taking mood, thank God, perhaps he accepts these proposals - to speed it up if there is an opportunity - perhaps this is with the Ministry of Justice, perhaps I am wrong - so that some sort of comprehensive regulatory system can be created, because this can affect not only this subject, but also judicial activity, and I say not only on technical issues. We have seen that, even in criminal matters, excessive freedom or excessive unregulatedness can be an opportunity for abuse. So we want a more stringent, transparent, transparent system of experts in technical and other fields, as criminal matters, serious, many years of prison may depend on the expert's opinion. Among other things, in the Rezesová case, we saw that the work of experts or one of the experts was questionable there. [[18.00]] I am not explaining this in detail because it is not a matter of the agenda, but I would very much like the Government to speed up the comprehensive reform that was promised then, and I understand that thinking has started on this subject. We need a reliable, public-credited, everyone-trusted and incorruptible judicial expert system, but - regardless of what I said - the involvement of experienced technical inspectors is a very effective and good step. The amendment is also welcome if the certificate of performance has been issued, so there is no dispute about the completion of the work - this could be put in this way - and the amount of the payment is less than HUF 6 million, then the amendments can be replaced by a council of two experts instead of three. We hope that this will go hand in hand with the reduction of costs again, because it is very important that if someone is in a position where they are not being paid, we can reduce the costs as much as possible, because this can save lives, if I may put it this way. The absence or non-disclosure of an on-the-spot inspection is also a provision that is difficult to dispute that it would not be good, based on a unanimous statement from the parties. This also gives the parties greater freedom to deviate from the rules of the law if they have a unanimous declaration. So in this form, this is also eligible. And I can also say for the on-site instrumental examination that it is also natural for this to be included in the proposal. It seems like a financial-technical amendment, but it is very important what is related to the quality of the guarantee. That insurance companies can also be involved, so not only will the bank guarantee be acceptable, I think it is good because the competition can be bigger, and perhaps the costs can also go lower if someone can get more offers. We know that the problem with bank guarantees is that banks often ask for conditions, especially from entrepreneurs, to issue a bank guarantee, which in many cases is almost unfulfilled. It may increase competition by opening up the possibility for insurance companies to provide such a guarantee. We can support that, too. To sum up, in the first round, I can say that these technical proposals - of course I was talking about this proposal - are absolutely eligible, but we must not sit back, because the task is not yet solved. This institution can be more crystallized and modified, but the next Z. Carpathian Dániel will tell you what we would do to improve the situation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-102	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the lead speakerial round, and as you may have heard from the bellman, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next. Here you go.
u2015-12-01-103	Mr President, Dear House, I understand the metacommunication that concerns the spinning of events. Let me live with a bell. The next agenda will be about the government's capitulation, obviously something with a lot more debate. In this case, we can be much more fairer, because it is a good government proposal, and, as has been said, the most important thing is to complement this now very quickly and briefly with the recommendations to which it would be worth thinking to the legislator in order to make any sense at all of the amendments put on the table. For example, it has been said that the shown volume of chain debts is falling in a visible way. But this clearly goes hand in hand with the fact that the volume, scale and number of investments are also decreasing, so at the moment we are obviously talking about the smaller and smaller slices of an increasingly smaller cake. We can see that Jobbik has previously put a package of proposals with three pillars on the table, which we are talking about in practice one of its pillars, and we are very pleased that this seems eligible, unless they can change this at the last moment with some amendment. We have proposed the setting up of a construction authority based on the previous economic model in the German language area, which can also exit and, where appropriate, stop the project or terminate the works, not only in the case of priority investments, but in the case of investments in construction, mainly in the case of chain debts. Obviously, the aim here is not to stop any investment, to stop machinery where appropriate, but, in itself, the threat of such a sanction in a fairer national economy has already discouraged the tendency to abuse from trying to do anything like it. The tragic case and example of the Megyeri Bridge has already been mentioned. By the way, for the record, there are still ruined families whose lives have been spent on the Megyeri bridge investment, and they are still not compensated. So this is an untenable situation. But a building authority operating in a similar way could, in any way, achieve enormous results. We have previously indicated that Jobbik does not want to restrict competition anywhere in terms of price determinations. We support fair competition everywhere - a fair focus here - but in the case of similar investments, if they are involved in public procurement or if it is a public investor, there would be no obstacle to granting a border from a point to an investment that can set the limits of fair market prices somewhat. So it could be helpful to get overpriced. And if there's any deviation from that, it obviously has to be an automatic test. With regard to priority investments, Jobbik also advocates the existence of these automatic tests. And if these three pillars could stand together in themselves, we would be able to reduce the number of abuses in Hungary by magnitude. We'll have one leg now, but not even a three-legged chair is stable enough. By strengthening one leg, I'm not sure it's enough on its own. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As one final thought, I would like to draw the legislator's attention to the fact that we can also experience serious irrationalities on the part of the government. For example, I very much liked the announcement by Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, that at last, five and a half years of phase delay, the government understood, and understood that the 27 percent VAT rate for housing constructions, or for new buildings, is unsustainable, that it needs to be changed and reduced. Jobbik has been chanting for years that this key has to be down to at least 5 percent, on the one hand, because we allow the market to build thousands of homes on an annual basis, and we can also make a state-supported home-building and rental-building program at all. If appropriate, let's say we can resolve the supply constraints a little bit, and this may be reflected in the fact that rent prices will not go so far. Mihály Varga's announcement is therefore very good, well-founded, we support it, we only have one problem with it, that nothing has happened since then. We haven't known a specific target date since when this VAT rate is falling. But what did the investors do? They naturally stopped their planned investments, waiting for this VAT reduction to happen. And if this has just been announced, possibly from a campaign-smelling approach, and until 2018, the real historical implementation of the reduction has been delayed, then we can see that this market has been hit in an amazing way by 2018. This can not only have a multiplier effect on market development if there is a positive approach to intervention, but it can have extremely negative effects if such a notification is made and then it is not followed by action. Let us take an example: Internet systems in the Budapest sublet market, these new types of methods have taken out approximately 4,500 apartments from the rent market, i.e. from the volume of apartments that can be rented. With regard to San Francisco, only 2 thousand apartments were taken out in a similar way, leading to the release of prices. Then we are surprised that this combined with many other factors in Budapest leads to the fact that between 110 and 150 thousand forints, if any, a flat of an average size is only rent, plus rent, and compare this with the average payment of 159-160,000 forints according to the KSH, which is an average, thus distorted, since the above elements of the statistics greatly distort and give the impression that this is the typical Hungarian clot, but it is not. To sum up, we should think of three pillars, one of which we can support, the one that lies before us. But it is our request, more precisely our demand for the government, to be careful of similar irresponsible statements, and if you make a good announcement, then always follow action, since they can cause amazing market damage by keeping the otherwise well-established announcements at horse-zung level, and I claim that they are well-founded at ministerial level. But we also see that if they are going to drag on the issue of VAT reductions for years now, they are actually losing everything that they seem to be benefiting from, and the Hungarian market is in a worse state overall, which cannot be in our interest and clearly demands action so that we can finally put this situation in order. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.10]]
u2015-12-01-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members, Mr Lepsényi State Secretary. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made and the general debate is therefore closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State István Lepsényi.
u2015-12-01-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also want to answer some questions briefly, because time is actually running. I would like to stress that, of course, the creation of the PES is just a step in our steps towards the sector. In some respects, the impact is felt, since if I look at the statistics, the positive trend continued, the production or performance of the construction industry increased by 8.1 percent by September. Of course, to some extent, it is a question of what base we measure, but it is a continuous, lasting growth. It is also positive that the new contracts increased by about 16 percent at the same time. So there's a positive trend, the cake might be getting a little bigger. We know there are several reasons for this. One of the reasons is the inflow of EU money. Another reason is the help of foreign exchange lenders, the increase in incomes, the favourable interest rate environment, which is very good at the moment, with low interest rates and a favourable credit environment. The impact can be seen, for example, in housing construction, where statistics show that the number of housing permits increased by 24 percent in the 1-3 quarters compared to the previous similar period. So there's a trend. The other thing I would like to emphasise is that, of course, we are constantly monitoring the steps that can and must be taken to further develop this important sector of the economy. I just want to give you an example. The new Public Procurement Act has provided a lot of progress, and we also consider it very important that the new Public Procurement Act changes the regulation by paying its subcontractors together and directly and by the tenderer's obligation to notify the contracting authority. So theoretically, there can't be a situation where there's a sub-contractor who doesn't get his money. I would also like to note here that professionalism is a fixed prize, and what we are trying to achieve is that there is as little to be spent on such professional work as possible. The government is determined to take further steps to promote the development of the sector, such as the various construction projects linked to energy saving, and to think about how to accelerate the promotion of housing in the coming time. Thank you very much for your comments and suggestions and for the support of the draft. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-12-01-106	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Lepsényi. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2006 LIX on special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances follows. General debate on the amendment of laws and certain tax laws until closure. The government referral is T/7831. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I'll give you the floor first. [[The Secretary of State arrives in the Chamber and exchange places with István Lepsényi.]] I'll wait for you. Have a seat. First, I would like to give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-12-01-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to present a bill containing an amendment to our previous proposal. This is the 2006 LIX. Law, which essentially aims to amend the bank tax. As a background to this, I would like to say that the Government is committed to maintaining the country's financial stability together with the stability of the financial intermediary system. It has therefore become inevitable that the bank tax introduced in 2010 should be amended. Another background, I would like to add, is that in February 2015, the Government concluded a Memorandum of Understanding with the EBRD, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which laid down, among other provisions, that the bank tax will be amended in the coming years 2015-2016-2017. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding to the bank tax essentially concerned three things. On the one hand, the fund and, on the other hand, the key have been amended and, on the third, a further reduction has been introduced for financial institutions which have been negatively affected by this amendment. After all, the intention was to reduce the burden imposed on financial institutions. These changes are a little more detailed. The tax base was changed from the previous tax base in 2009 to the tax base in 2014. As regards the rates, the previous rate of 0,53 per cent will be reduced to 0,31 and 0,21 per cent respectively in 2016 and 2017. In this agreement, we agreed that from 2009 the rate of the bank tax will be equivalent to the EU rate. In addition, there is an additional reduction option contained in the EBRD agreement. This was envisaged in respect of the banks to which this amendment would have substantially increased the burden of bank tax. A further reduction option has therefore been introduced for these financial institutions in addition to those laid down in the EBRD agreement. However, the informal negotiations with the European Union Competition DG revealed that this additional reduction option would not comply with the rules of the Competition DG, and we therefore wanted to amend these additional reduction options before the law entered into force. That's what the law just filed applies to. The bill before you therefore basically limits the amount of tax that financial institutions can pay, and we have not touched the ones set out in the EBRD agreement. As a further reduction option, the current bill states that financial institutions cannot pay more taxes in 2016 than 45% of their taxes paid in 2015 and that they cannot pay more in 2017 than 30 percent of their bank tax paid in 2015. This is because in 2017 this additional reduction option is already subject to one condition. We expect financial institutions to be able to use the additional reduction option from 2017 onwards if they have increased their credit holdings. However, these credit increases can be achieved in any sector. The proposal also includes a further restriction, also in the spirit of the EBRD agreement, which states that in 2017 banks that have not been able to achieve an increase in their credit portfolio could not pay more than their bank tax paid in 2016. By introducing this rule, it can therefore be seen that the provisions concerning this additional benefit are deleted from the Banking Act itself. At the same time, however, the provisions in Art, which were contested by the Directorate-General for Competition, are also deleted. [[18.20]] These provisions are intended to compensate for losses in Ukraine. These will be deleted at the same time as this amendment by Art. The provisions of this Regulation shall also apply. I would like to point out that the current agreement, which is before you, is a compromise solution. This was accepted by both the Banking Association and the EBRD, such as Erste, the various wallets and the Hungarian National Bank. This is a full, wide-ranging compromise, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016, if the Parliament adopts it. I therefore ask you with respect to support this proposal. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-108	Thank you, Secretary of State Agnes Hornung. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-01-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The 2006 LIX on special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances. Act T/7831 amending certain tax laws I can conclude in advance that at the time it was absolutely groundbreaking, and I believe that in the amendment, just as we are ahead of many countries who have done similar things, it is also pioneering. As a result of the financial crisis that began in 2008, the new government decided in 2010 to impose this special tax on the financial sector, commonly known as the bank tax. As we have always pointed out, the objective of the special taxes was to ensure that large commercial, energy and financial firms better benefit from public burdens in view of the state of the economy and the fiscal situation. The new government, which stood up in 2010, has broken off with the socialist policy that has always wanted to address the budgetary situation with austerity measures for the general public. If we look back at the period after the change of regime, we can see that this is what the socialist government has done in every crisis. However, we were also in the position that, in difficult times, stronger economic operators should show greater social responsibility. As I said in the introduction, with this step, the Hungarian government took on a pioneering role, recalling many and sometimes negative criticisms. Then a number of countries from England to Poland took over these taxes, including the bank tax. As we have been pioneers in this respect, I believe that the Hungarian government is taking a pioneering role in the transformation of this bank tax, not only by reducing the tax rate, but also by linking it with economic recovery measures. Given that the economic indicators of recent years have been well developed, we can clearly say that we have left the crisis years behind and that this is an opportunity to reduce the extra taxes, as the Secretary of State said, a broad consensus has been reached, and one of the government's fundamental efforts has been to maintain balance. The bill submitted by the Ministry of National Economy on 24 November is aimed precisely at improving the operating conditions of the financial sector, as promised earlier. According to the bill before us, the rate of the bank tax will be 0.15% for the part of the tax base not exceeding HUF 50 billion, 0.31% for the excess amount in 2016, 0.21 percent for 2017 and 18, provided that the special tax payable by the credit institution for the financial year, i.e. the tax year, may not exceed 45% of the amount of the special tax payable in 2015 and the amount of the special tax paid in 17 and 18 in 2016. Of course, the government's aim is, in addition to reducing the special tax, to increase lending activity, as this is one of the fundamental obligations of the banking sector. I believe that, thanks to the facilitation, the financial sector can be expected to give greater credit to creditworthy businesses, thereby helping the economy to grow. And this is a novelty in the current proposal, since the following passage is added to the bill. For a credit institution where the holding of business loans increased between the reporting date for the financial year 2015 and the reporting date for the tax year 16 and the change in the effect of the transactions on loans to small and medium-sized enterprises between the reporting date for the financial year 2015 and the reporting date for the financial year 2016, the rate of the special tax payable for the financial year 2017 and 2018 shall not exceed 30% of the amount of the bank tax payable for the financial year 2015. It will also be similar to what has been said in the case of loans to households. Dear House, The bill will reduce the burden on the financial sector from 2016, while at the same time we hope to increase the pace and extent of bank lending. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-01-110	Thank you, Congressman Tamás László. I now give the floor to Mr István Tukacs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-12-01-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the very beginning, we can agree that the Secretary of State must play a very ungrateful role here tonight. An important, racially significant, and I'm telling you, you need to represent the government's position on more than just an economic issue, in which your government, at the time, said something else. And that is a difficult task. I'm sorry for your loss. My fellow Member, Tamás László, was right to start this discussion with a political upheaval on this proposal before us, because it is a simple and very hard political matter. It's not just about the economy. But I'd like to understand why. However, I would like to say one thing: my fellow Member is wrong. You weren't the pioneers. A bank tax, a bank tax, was introduced by the Socialist-Free Democratic Government in favour of your lively opposition. And only in the absence of time, I will not quote the parliamentary contributions that were made in this regard. And from now on, let me tell you that only in the category of infantilism, who was on the side of the banks and who wasn't? The type of many-many comments. This is a political issue because we have to give an opinion on the political goals of the government when this proposal is before us and the situation in which the government may be in 2016. First of all, I would like to point out that the banks have passed all their burdens on to their customers. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And a little more!]] So that's what I'd like to say. Big service providers, big mass media companies, everybody. So, even if it is repeated many times that banks were taxed here and not the people, I deny this: the people were taxed, they paid. And no one can be persuaded in this matter because they have paid the extra charges imposed. My second sentence is more of a question than a statement. The Hungarian budget and public finances are in such a good position that they can afford this opportunity. Because here the laws relating to the banking special tax have been adopted for the recovery of public finances. [[18.30]] So this budget is so in order that there was no tension in it now? We remember the 2016 budget debate. All of our initiatives involving additional resources have been rejected by the fact that the budget is not in such a position. Therefore, the reasons must be looked somewhere else. First of all, I myself believe in the goodness of the operation of the economy by loans. This cannot be taken out of the system, loans are needed, good loans are needed by good companies. At the same time, a very interesting situation may arise by 2016, and I believe that the Orbán government wants to reflect on this with the present proposal. Investment figures for the third quarter show a decrease compared to the previous similar period, because although we hear victory reports a lot, this figure, a certain 3.4 percent, is difficult to dispute. And if we add to this the temporary decline in EU funds, the fact that the government will not have the relatively easily accessible European Union money at its disposal, then in 2016 the state of not only non-compliance with the GDP promises that the government has committed to in the budget, but also the countries around us, in the region, are turning and pulling away from us in economic growth. That's one of the problems. The other problem is the continuing deterioration of our competitiveness. So it cannot be overlooked that, in recent times, only negative data have been published. In English: the situation where banks respond to a government decision with a debt severity and credit tightness, the answer now is that we have this proposal before us, because they know precisely that because of the two circumstances I have said, bank lending is necessary very, insanely. György Matolcsy wanted to give his own answer, this was the growth loan program, and now he wants another one. This growth loan scheme would have been a remedy for what businesses now perceive everywhere, but the lending banks say that there is rigour and nyet. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Yes, I still studied Russian, unlike some of my fellow Members. So, in this situation, this proposal is being made, and to say only a very small but political kind of trouble: the Prime Minister said, in connection with a certain agreement with Erste banker in February, that he would lead 40 percent out of 144 billion forints out of bank tax, because the Hungarian government will definitely fulfill what he promises. In banking circles, they soon realized that this was a scam, so there is no such promise here, and so the next negotiations continued. So here's what I'm saying:1. Let's not say political horseback to each other on this issue, because he has lost his sense of government behavior, that we are now accusing each other of who was on the side of the banks and who was on the side of the people. My fellow Members, I think everyone here wants to be on the side of the country. At a time when these proposals are decided in a separate deal rather than in clear terms, it already carries the possibility of adopting such a proposal suspiciously here.3. There are no two types of communication, because everyone gets caught once, so you can't say that we're gonna keep all the agreements, and then we're not gonna keep them, or we're gonna try to avoid them.4. I think that if someone comes up with the argument that the special tax on banks will be reduced, there will be less burden on people, if I say that because they have been burdened with these bank debt burdens on their customers, and I am happy about that, then I say that I will not be happy about it, because they will not withdraw an inch from this situation. Therefore, I believe that this proposal is proof that the government perceives a situation, a lack of credit, senses a relapse, tries to provide a solution on the credit side. Meanwhile, he tries to find an alternative solution on the MNB's side, because we know that the MNB is suitable for everything, so it's like a good Szabolcsi brandy, that it's good for everything, because it can buy paintings, it can start a growth credit program and organize a foundation university, but it's a sideline. What I would just like to say is that the proposal that lies before us alone makes everything that the government has said in this area pointless, and that is a serious mistake. I do not think that the recovery from this situation is that we can afford it now, and even the prospects in this regard - as I have tried to describe - are much worse. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to add to this proposal that there could have been a better solution to this matter, and that the bank tax is not from the devil. As I quoted to my fellow Member Tamás László, they were not even the pioneers, but the solutions would have been better handled. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-12-01-112	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-12-01-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This is no longer the first time we have talked about the situation of the banks in Hungary, their future prospects and the opportunities of the Hungarian economy, but I do not think it is possible to clarify where we started enough. In Hungary, we introduced the bank tax as the second of the EU's Member States in 2010 after Sweden in an economic situation when the country lost its fiscal stability thanks to the socialists' governance. We are talking about an economic situation where the budget deficit is planned to be nearly 3.5-4 times the current one, and the return on medium-term sovereign debt has found only a buyer at interest rates above 10 per cent. In the next three years, 12 other EU countries have applied and are applying the unorthodox move, and Poland's intention to impose tougher conditions on the Polish bank special tax than currently in force. Looking back on the past nearly five years, it is now clear that the special tax applied in the banking sector has contributed a great deal to the country's economic stability and has extended the principle of equal burden-sharing throughout the country. I would add that this step was also fair because we must not forget that this crisis, the economic crisis that we have seen since 2008 and perhaps we have not yet fully recovered from it, was caused by the banks, so I think that the principle of equal burdening was an absolute right government idea to apply to them. I do not dispute, however, that the socialists also tried to do so, only in terms of effectiveness, the voters gave an opinion on this in 2010. In view of the fact that at the time of the introduction, the Hungarian government reached out to an area which was considered untouchable at the time, the whole of Europe talked about Hungary's economic suicide and vulnerability, and, of course, let us not forget the so-called London analysts, who said nothing more than that the economy in Hungary was going to decline, and sooner or later, the country will be on the verge of bankruptcy, and they also said that a lot of banks are going to retire. Obviously this was not the case; and one more aspect is worth mentioning here is that the bank tax really needed for the stability of the budget, and this fiscal stability gave us the opportunity to step out of the EU's overdeficit procedure. This was necessary in order to draw EU development resources. [[18.40]] So we can safely say that the bank tax has actually contributed to the growth of the Hungarian economy, so not only to the stability of the budget, but also to economic growth by eliminating the excessive deficit procedure along this logical chain. Despite this, we have seen that, although lending has fallen temporarily in our country, as in the EU, the economy has become stable, the country has financed itself at an ever cheaper rate, and growth figures have also become one of the best in the last ten years. I would like to note here the decline in lending that my socialist fellow Member should then decide how the banks reacted to this government measure in the case of or after the bank tax, because on the one hand he claims that the banks have passed this on to the general public, and on the other hand he says that the banks reacted to it with a credit rigour, i.e. a reduction in lending. So it would be nice if you decided which one it was. However, we have seen that the bank tax was necessary to introduce the proportionate burden-bearing developed over the course of crisis years, and in vain we listened to Western analysts calling themselves competent experts several times, that, despite the bank tax, the Hungarian banking sector did not come close to bankruptcy, and it was able to produce a stable operation, and the situation improved despite the commitments of previous years. I keep it quiet that we're not just thinking about this anymore. Last time, Fitch Ratings, who spoke with a critical voice earlier, said in his recent country report that Hungarian banks can now work in a favourable operating environment, now working in Hungary. However, the tight management of the last few years is slowly beginning to allow us to reduce these burdens along small steps, but gradually, and not to curb further growth with the bank tax. Therefore, maintaining the principle of a proportionate burden, the government took the right step when it reviewed the instruments that are still helping and which are already more of a barrier to growth. From this proposal, which has now been presented by the Secretary of State, it is clear that the banking sector tax is now more in the latter group, and therefore the Ministry of National Economy has quite rightly revised its extent and the conditions for its application. We have also all been informed that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other EU bodies have expressed doubts about the idea adopted earlier, and it is also important to note that these have been heard by the Government and that the amendment proposal that is now before us is already fully in line with the principles of the EU which had been missed a great deal, as Fitch specifically pointed out. The newly defined bank tax therefore serves two purposes at the same time. On the one hand, it continues to provide security for the government's fiscal policy and thus participates in a proportionate share of the burden. On the other hand, it also directly supports the growth of the economy by encouraging lending policy. I particularly welcome the proposal that banks, according to their activity in lending, may expect even more concessions in the coming years than the caps in the proposal, or even, in extreme cases, in the event of a large increase in their lending, they may almost be exempted from paying the bank tax, as the amendment maximizes the burdens of those years as a percentage of the previously paid burden, which may even decrease further. According to this, in 2016, the tax burden to be paid will certainly be less than half of its time, and in the following year it will be maximized at a third. The proposal now being submitted takes full account of the requests made by the EBRD and the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition, and, in addition, the credit institutions themselves have provided support to the legislator. It can therefore be said in summary that a good compromise has been reached between the parties, i.e. the banking sector, the EU institutions and the government, and this proposal, which we are now holding in our hands, contains a reasonable solution, which, by the way, serves the interests of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people. Therefore, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-01-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-12-01-115	Mr President, Dear House, Well, I certainly feel lucky that my blood pressure is not a problem, and I do not have to touch different medicines to keep it in order, because when I have to listen to my fellow pro-government Members, quite interesting alternative realities unfold. I would like to bring forward that my critical remarks are not at all intended for a secretary of state, who is a sympathetic phenomenon of Hungarian political life, but the problem is precisely that those who have come up with the opposite are not sitting here now, and are essentially trying to put you in an awkward position where we too feel bad, Members of criticism, and those who are responsible for the whole situation, do not have the courage to face up to the opposition that cannot otherwise prevent this madness, but at least try to draw attention to what has happened here against Hungary and to what the current government is assisting. What my KDNP fellow Member says is a good compromise is ridiculous. This means the capitulation of the Hungarian government, the absolute surrender of the Hungarian government, and it is embarrassing. What is embarrassing about the activities of any government that governs the national economy is that you simply advertise on the billboard that we have the banks accounted for, lie in people's faces while they are allowed to steal hundreds of billions of dollars, lie in the image of people, post this on a billboard, then go to the EBRD, basically sit down with the Banking Alliance and take over all their dictatorships, take all their dictatorships and guide them through the Hungarian legal system, and now they come to us with a sensible compromise. Where are your billboards? Where are the banks accounted for? ! Explain it to me. Someone took out his alleged foreign currency loan at 165 HUF. You brought us a law, and you had a picture of it, where the same was HUF 256 forints. By multiplying the difference between it by nearly 100 forints by the amounts, they allowed it to be beaten down in a legal way on the people, it was taken from the Hungarian people, it was credited to the banks concerned. You can swing your head, but you can deny what we're saying. What happened then was that the poster was written out, the banks were accounted for, the Hungarian people were left to steal, and now they are talking about a healthy compromise, while they signed with servitude what the EBRD wanted from you. They did a pretty amazing thing to the Hungarian citizens, they allowed hundreds of billions to damage the affected Hungarian citizens. Because what happened on February 9th? You're supposed to have the banks accounted for. Let's see what you and the EBRD have agreed on and what the Bank Alliance has approved. For example, the government's commitment, of course, to private ownership of its existing majority shares in the local banks - here the MKB and the Bank of Budapest - in three years. Therefore, the possibility of trying to influence the market, where appropriate, by means of background tools and public instruments that could have been in the right direction is also rejected. Here in this agreement is what lies ahead of us now, what they are doing with the bank tax fund, how the transfer from the 2009 balance sheet to the balance sheet, where there may be logical points, could be debated, but do not tell us that this is a good compromise and that this is the result of a sensible agreement, because it is a dictatorship! This is dictated to you from abroad, and you want to take it through the Hungarian legal system. Be honest with me. They're not lying to us, they're trying to lie to hundreds of thousands of voters behind us. What else do you have in here? What have you promised, obviously in the sense of a good compromise, and because the Hungarian government wanted it to be so? For example, to avoid any further transfer of exchange rate risks to banks. [[18.50]] Shall I tell you what this means in Hungarian? For example, car lenders can no longer hope for a central discount on this basis. If this is a good compromise, and the Hungarian government has been involved in this, then this is what you want the car-believers not to pass the justice that others have failed to achieve fully, but at least not to discuss the intention. What else did the Hungarian Government make in the agreement with the EBRD? To ensure that the government does not take any further restrictive measures in relation to auctioning and evictions, so, if necessary, let the Hungarian people be evicted more easily than before. The eviction moratorium is also a matter of heaven. Here, too, a promise was made to extend the purchase of the properties of the clients in distress, i.e. to boost the international asset manager, where people are deprived of ownership of their property, and then they can rent it back. This could also be a helpful solution for those who choose to do so voluntarily, but the question we ask is how many apartments have been built under this government, and you say that rent is not, but there is the National Asset Manager, which increases the rental stock, it is quite hypocritical. Finally, they made a promise, a commitment to transfer and introduce the private institution of bankruptcy. We know that the number of contracts signed here, let us not say that it is below a hundred, because we know that about half a thousand people have already expressed their intention to sign a contract, so let us be lenient with the government in this regard, but there is certainly a thousand below the number of people to be helped, compared to the market estimates that about 20 to 25 thousand people were only trying to help with this one method. So this, which you have undertaken against the EBRD, is essentially that you do not impose any additional burden on the banking system, and by giving up their previous positions, you do not undertake to help the Hungarian people against institutionalised abuses that were characteristic of the Hungarian market. It is said now that part of the bank tax can be released, and that it is possible to put the commercial banks concerned in a more favourable position because the Hungarian economic growth rate makes this possible. Here we also have to report quite distorting effects, as more optimistic estimates are also about an increase of around 3 per cent, but let's just say that Morgan Stanley, which I do not respect so much, is also reporting a 1.4 per cent negative scenario for 2016 and a 2.2 per cent negative scenario. The current economic policy of the Hungarian government - and let's be fair - is limited in its ability to regulate, control and control the entire system. To illustrate: press reports on a German car factory, after a scandal has exploded, all projections and indicators for GDP need to be rewritten with a slight exaggeration. This shows the virtually colonial vulnerable status of the Hungarian economy, the fact that we are operating as a German province without rights at the moment, so vulnerable to this economic system, that it is very difficult for us to influence it on our own initiative. When I say that the government's current justification for a good compromise is embarrassing, and you have agreed with the EBRD, the Bank Alliance has given its blessing on this, and how good it is, because bank lending will grow, then the question arises that the basic philosophy with which the special taxes were properly brought in here - and even my fellow Member Hollik wasn't here, in fact, those who brought the special taxes here at the time are not in the Chamber; so they have done this along a basic philosophy, with a orientation towards public burdens, and the question arises: if this is no longer in your view in the banking sector, as it is essentially a long-term abolition, they will lead the banking sector special tax, then they will also lead out similar special taxes in other sectors? What about the telecommunications sector? Or let us ask a very acute question: what happens to the financial transaction tax, which they have not even dared to baptize as a tax, because they knew that they would not have gone through Brussels, so they called the professional rules a little out of line, and, in respect of this transaction fee, they passed on not just as much to customers, to people as they had imposed at tax level, but even more. There was a Hungarian company that received a letter of notice from its bank to pay back five months - a small business - the financial transaction fee which the legislator had levied at the time, and these sums were harshly beaten down on the Hungarian people. But can I ask you one more question: if you start to drive out the banking sector special tax now, are the invisible price increases built into products and services that have otherwise been associated with the introduction of this, will they now decrease? Can Congressman Hollik, for example, tell us whether bank card fees or annual card fees will decrease by a few thousand or to some extent? Does the State Secretary or Ministry have a monitoring system that can look at whether or not the banks' price increases are backed up by real market developments? Of course you don't know, because you didn't like to set up a monitoring system, which is really even on a weekly basis to see whether or not there are real market developments behind the different price changes. There are such methods in the world, we have not heard them very much from anyone but a better Member, but it has not even occurred to us to introduce them. Therefore, when we see that the HUF 144 billion of income expectation, which was expected for the banking sector special tax, is reduced to 65 billion, and in the long term we see an intention to complete it, then these questions arise as to whether the philosophy behind the special taxes has changed, so whether the government is now satisfied with what we say the banking system is doing, what the telecom companies are doing, what other companies are doing; this is one of the questions. The other is whether the government is satisfied with what has been happening in recent years in terms of lending. Is something going on? Or should we say: would this proposal be necessary if the MNB's growth credit programme had been successful? You can look at two types of statistics. One is about how much credit the subsidiaries of the multi-company companies operating here have received, let's say, medium-sized companies - a lot - and you can see if Hungarian small businesses with less than 8 employees were able to attract significant funds during the growth credit programme: we find that only a few percent. So to a very small extent, it has been able to support the Hungarian small business sector with an amazing multiplier effect in terms of its economic activity, which provides a great deal of jobs. Therefore, bank lending is insufficient, despite the fact that you have already made very large gestures to this banking system, you are now doing one more without any guarantee that this bank lending will be sufficient or capable of if it does not become the engine of the economy, but at least to ensure sufficient conditions. I agree with the pro-government MEP before me that it was absolutely alarming that the banks would withdraw from Hungary. Anyone who knows a little about the profession knows that these multinational chains can't afford empty spots in their portfolio to rip up the wires and get out of here in a whole country while other members of the same multi-chain, its plants are here and they have to serve them. So this fear was not realistic, although it was used to alarm Balliberal characters calling themselves experts many times. But we also need to see that, in itself, the fact that no one has retired does not assume that what has happened has been successful. Once again, explain to me: in terms of the financial transaction fee, how could more be passed on, in a qualified manner, to the Hungarian population, recognised by financial institutions, and how could this have had no governmental consequences, that you have not taken any action in this regard? With regard to the banking sector special tax, yes, there may be professional disputes that have passed on or only part of the whole, but you have not developed a system of analysis of market processes, where, say, a minimum percentage of a few thousand card fee increases - which, by the way, could move HUF 10 billion in the long term - should be seen behind whether there were real market processes or not. This is just a little different from what was seen under the social-liberal governments, when the bank passed on the increase in its rent to customers in no time, without any obstacles. We are better off today, let us acknowledge that, let us not be counter-cooperative, but we must see that the financial transaction fee was allowed to pass, the banking sector special tax was allowed to pass on in its entirety or to a very large extent without any consequences, the consumer protection system was either broken down or placed under the MNB, but the question arises, let us say, who will check the MNB then, since no control committee or subcommittee alone is capable of doing so, not even a supervisory board. And we also need to see that this whole system is bleeding. So this is not about the fact that the Hungarian government, after putting it on the billboard, is going to let the banks be accounted for, is going to let a little bit of pressure. It's about you sitting down with the EBRD in February, and an international organization together with the Bank Alliance put a dictatorship on the table for you. Obviously, lending will be a bit of a spin in return for this, but the Hungarian government has capitulated, as a whole put down the gun, surrendered to the banks, giving up all its previous rhetorical principles, that it wants public burdens and accountability. This will not only be caused by foreign exchange credit, not only by the Quaestor victims, but by the hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarian voters. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.00]]
u2015-12-01-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are no independent representatives in the room, no two-minute speeches. I would like to ask you if you have any other representatives to speak with. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, he volunteered.
u2015-12-01-117	Mr President, Dear House, Yes, it is also talkative that a speech by the lead speaker must be followed by the same Member's normal speech, so it has not been possible to get a reaction to what has been said. This may come from the professional level of previous speakers, or even from mine, if this was not enough, it may not have moved you enough. But here they're not doing us any favors by responding, but imagine the hundreds of thousands of voters behind us. In fact, we have to articulate their arguments, not just express our own ideas. We can say that what lies in front of us is, therefore, the paper package on the first partial and later total waiver of the banking sector special tax, in fact, in addition to a capitulation, also raises a philosophical question about the government's attitude. It raises the question that the fighter rhetoric so far, the shift towards public burdens, the ability to move away from mainstream on other issues, where appropriate, on migration issues, could move a little away from what is common in Western European liberal circles, whether it is now being abandoned or not. So is it possible that it is credible, let us say, along the migration theme, that the rhetorical stand of the government, which seems to be a strong nation states, is its credibility acceptable if its behaviour on another front can be influenced in this way by the Banking Federation, EBRD, domestic and international organisations? There is also the question that very interesting analyses have come to light about the reduction of the bank tax, but there has also been a Quaestor scandal, which also affects this package. After all, there is a background deal, obviously, when the government negotiates with the Banking Association, not only about the banking sector special tax, but also about what to do with Quaestor, how to settle the Quaestor case. This is where the question arises, what do you think, whether taxpayers should cover this enormous damage? Or, where appropriate, can the injured party collect the huge amount of money from which the settlement of claims can be carried out? Or are they able and willing to drive themselves to share burdens in the financial sphere in the case of banks? For here we can see quite simply in the dark in this situation, and we cannot see where they intend to go. But if I had to summarize in a sentence what this package is about, you are actually part of a reality show, where credit rating companies are trying to present different behavioral patterns, and the decision makers of these reality shows, credit rating agencies or highlight Hungary permanently from the Bovl category or not. In fact, that is what this is all about, the early adoption of the budget; the fact that they are now making similar gestures towards the financial sphere is releasing sectoral special taxes. I understand that compliance with credit rating agencies is important. I do not wish Hungary to be in the bovli category for long, long-term, but you have made commitments that are quite amazing. So they overplayed this game, they overreacted a little bit to this whole claim that you might have had from abroad. I have already mentioned what Hungary has undertaken, what the Hungarian Government has undertaken in connection with the agreement with the EBRD. All I'm asking you to do is think about two things. One of them is the National Asset Manager involved, which is not to be treated as an extension of a rental program. So on the other side, at least try to carry through the Hungarian state-supported home-building and rental-building programme to pull out the fangs of the basic requirement from which the harmful system of foreign exchange lending developed. And the other is the private institution of bankruptcy. The private institution is a KDNP disaster, which will otherwise burn on KDNP as an initiative already in the form of a campaign in 2010. KDNP has already treated this as a very serious campaign element in the 2010 parliamentary elections. A primitive version of this was also submitted in the year 2012, but it did not get further than the Commission stage, as I recall that it was withdrawn by the legislator itself or by the legislator who wished to legislate. Then another two years passed, in the 2014 campaign they campaigned again, and we see that by 2015 it became what it was, and we can clearly see that the institution of the private bankruptcy, although it was a promise for 20-25 thousand people, was a promise for so many people; if I remember correctly, this was an estimate announced by one of the executive directors of the Hungarian National Bank, which was said on television, within the wide circles of the media, and the 20-25 thousand became a signed contract of less than 100, and about 500 interested parties. It may be a little more now, so correct it if I'm wrong in the exact number, but I'm not wrong in the order of magnitude. There are such strong, violent restrictive conditions within the private system that many needy people, even under these brutal strict conditions, cannot apply for this. So we're asking you, on the one hand, to reconsider the conditions, so don't try to take custody and patronage for five years, but try to help them. Let's say that the concept of Jobbik is to reshape the private institution in two directions: on the one hand, a free-sourced family helper should be there for the family, not giving them dictatorships, but helping them negotiate with the creditor bank, even by extending the term, a contract that can be undertaken towards fair burden-sharing, and, on the other hand, free re-training programmes should help those who have lost their life opportunities to return to the labour market and are able to fight back from the members of society to the productive sphere of society that are to be supported. In terms of private bankruptcy, there would be a framework for this, there would be a possibility, there would be a budgetary resource. And one more thing I want you to think about. This is to allow these people to go free after five years of very strict conditions have been met. Give them back their freedom, no debt slaves, no ten million-dollar debts. Within the framework of an Anglo-Saxon-type walk away method, with a right to walk away after five years, let these people live freely and reclaim what they can from their lives as decent Hungarian citizens. After all, if we look at what percentage of the value of the property the banks can sell the assets they take away from the debtors, we see that they will get this opportunity to sell during a five-year period of private bankruptcy. So even the financial institution itself, the creditor, will benefit from this solution, even if it ends up letting the injured person walk away with the state. So I ask you to think in this direction, because in Hungary, in the shadow of a social and social disaster, it is not enough to put forward gesture solutions for banks, even if we do not agree with this, but obviously the government will decide on this issue, but it could help Hungarian people, moving relatively low budget resources on people in distress, so that these people can become good taxpayers again and be happy and satisfied people in their own country again. So I'm guessing you're trying to incorporate these well-intentioned comments and suggestions into the government action plan. We will argue about sectoral special taxes, many more, there will still be ember debates here, but I also feel that we need to find a common minimum in terms of the fact that these people were not in trouble because of their own fault, and that the current Hungarian government has a dog duty to help them. Once again, we know less than 100 people today, instead of the 20,000 and 25,000 people promised to help us in private bankruptcy. So we expect them to solve this amazing dilemma, to solve this untenable situation, because these people also deserve to live a life worthy of man. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-118	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik for two minutes, KDNP.
u2015-12-01-119	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief. The reason I didn't think first of all about how I would react to Daniel Z. Carpathian's suggestions was because there were very few points. There were opinions, you were talking about colonialization, capitulation, surrendering arms, but, by the way, it's a better proposal than what the government just put on the table, so, basically, if I understand what you're saying correctly, that's all you could say, otherwise, that's what I didn't hear from you. Once again, it seems like you're talking about colonial status, surrendering arms and fighting, as if the whole point of your policy is to go against the banks and the financial intermediary system for your own good. The government of Fidesz-KDNP looks to the interests of the Hungarian people. He doesn't see banks as enemies. [[19.10]] If, by the way, you see that they are acting unfairly in relation to foreign exchange lenders, you will normally have the banks accounted for; if you see, by the way, that they have not been sufficiently involved in the common burden so far, as they were not before 2010, you will involve them. However, he considers them to be partners, and if it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to continue to grow, to have new jobs, to be able to start businesses, and then, otherwise, to put reasonable solutions on the table - this proposal, which is in front of us now, belongs to this circle - then to cooperate with the banks. We consider banks not as enemies, but as partners, but always in the interest of the Hungarian people. I think that's where our policies differ. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-01-120	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-12-01-121	Mr President, Dear House, I would suggest to the attention of my fellow KDNP Member that the fact that he is a flyma does not mean that he is right. I'd like to list it again for you, because perhaps your pen didn't catch well, the specific suggestions that we have listed in addition to the ratings just now. This included the restoration of the private institution of bankruptcy, which was a very, very embarrassing initiative on KDNP, because once again, 20,000 people were promised help, and it became below 100. This includes the development of a monitoring system that can assess whether or not there are real market developments behind bank price movements. This includes the completion of public burdens, as they look at their own budget, I have the extract of 2016 here, say, 400 billion forints in terms of corporate income expectations, which is minimal, 4 percent compared to the whole. So it does not exactly point to the fact that there is a public burden in Hungary. We find a number of multi-enterprises and beneficiary companies where the results before and after tax are nearly identical, or under the heading of these companies, say, job creation, which means that they will get back the amount that they will pay to the Hungarian population working in assembly plants as a wage. So let's not say they're pointing in the right direction. We agree that you are not enemies of the banks. All I said was that you were in bed with the banks for a dictatorship, and I confirmed that with about six to eight arguments. According to their agreement on 9 February, in which they essentially agreed not to impose additional burdens on banks, this was confirmed in their own written form, so again it is not a rating. With regard to foreign exchange loans, there is also the way in which the situation would be resolved in the long term. This could only be the forinting of so-called loans at the rate of admission, so while you have beaten the difference between 100 forints, recruitment and market rates on customers and given them to the banks, Jobbik would group this huge amount of hundreds of billions back to the owners, the Hungarian people, the injured, so it is difficult to doubt that we would appear on stage with concrete proposals. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tamás László will be here in two minutes.
u2015-12-01-123	Thank you for the floor. We are witnessing a very exciting economic philosophy debate. The fact is that the Hungarian government sails between Szüllák and Kharübdisek, so we must find a narrow path in which the balance that Ms. Ágnes Hornung spoke about is incredibly important. So we have to represent the Hungarian population at the same time, whose indebtedness was certain to be helped, but the Hungarian government was able, after all, to help the foreign exchange-credited, but at the same time, to keep the banking system. With the efforts that Jobbik wanted to live with, I believe that our negotiations on the banking system would have been incredibly difficult, and I believe that the solution that the government has consistently found from 2010 until now is the result of a constant struggle and a permanent deal, and that is in the interests of the Hungarian population. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-01-124	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next.
u2015-12-01-125	Mr President, Dear House, I am glad that the debate has risen to a slightly higher spiritual level with this short comment, because we have something to discuss. If you really want to negotiate with the banking system, we bettermen don't say that you have to head against the wall, you have to destroy the commercial banks here, and they're all enemies, because they don't. There is no fair, normal national economy without normal lending, commercial banks. Our problem is precisely the lack of decency, so that in the last decade's perspective, almost nothing of this has appeared. Once again, I'd like to show you what we're calling you for. Just that if someone took on a so-called foreign currency loan at 165 HUF, you would account for this at 256 HUF, in fact with great damage to the injured party, credited it to the bank's side, and we would not say that we should ban these banks, we would not say that we should break down their buildings and sprinkle salt into their place, we simply say that they should pay back their real debt, but that they should not be able to pay back any of those penalties. Compared to this, your market HUFing, I believe, has created a more favourable bargaining position against the banks, but this cost the lives of Hungarian families, and it was the cost of destabilizing Hungarian people. I would like to share with you one more sentence that we agree on something else. So the debt of the Hungarian population is quite harsh, and this includes not only the OECD survey, according to which the fourth of the OECD countries under consideration have been taxed the monthly salary of a Hungarian family of two-seekers, with two children - this is due somewhere from the tax system you have worked out - but we also see that if, for example, we buy a gross monthly minimum wage of HUF 105 thousand, then we see that there are no two thirds of the net, and the rest is taken away by the social contribution tax, the social contribution tax, the contributions, pension contributions, health insurance contributions, labour market contributions and vocational training contributions. So, in order for the employee employed at the minimum wage, if any, to be unique - i.e. not distorted by the family tax discount - to be able to return 68 775 forints a month, his employer is obliged to pay the State 66 150 forints, i.e. almost the same. As long as there are such imbalances in the tax system, the economic structure - as mentioned earlier - I do not want to repeat it - will continue to be the vulnerability and indebtedness of the Hungarian people. So it is worth seeing these things in a system. And in the case of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, do not think that by going through a good settlement that you thought was going through, this problem has already run out, and these foreign exchange credit-damaged families will accept it. Unfortunately, it will be a decade-long task for future governments to achieve the settlement of claims. Obviously, this must be done in such a way that fair commercial banks operating here can operate, including corporate lending, residential lending, but do not think that we, Jobbiques, will forget for a moment the financial and other banking crimes that led to the massive institutionalisation of Hungarian people's lives. So once again, we agree that the Hungarian population is indebted. We also agree that the pact with the EBRD has resulted in an easier negotiating situation for the government; it is another issue that we, the right-wings, would not make such a pact with anyone and, above all, would not expect permission to act from the outside, but would draw it from our own courage. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-126	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Ms Ágnes Hornung, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-12-01-127	Thank you very much. I would really like to respond briefly to what has been said here, and I would like to respond to a few things, a lot has been said. I'd like to start by clarifying that Hpt. According to its current provisions, credit institutions cannot unilaterally modify the charge to be passed on to customers, so we continue to stand by our position that banks and payment service providers cannot pass on the different public burdens to customers; this is the first thing I wanted to highlight. The other thing would be a general remark. It has been said in many respects, on the one hand, about compliance with credit rating agencies and, on the other, about government objectives. We agree that compliance with credit rating agencies is a positive thing, it is absolutely necessary, because this will change the fundraising and investor circle. The government itself is also on a very wide scale. Growth, competitiveness have been said, and there are still a number of criteria that need to be respected from the government's side, and what one Member has said is very important, that relations with banks should be kept on track, and the border on which we can actually move in this respect is currently very narrow. [[19.20]] Our relationship with the banks and its positive direction are important in order to meet these government objectives, which I have just listed, so that we can continue to maintain this growth above the EU average, both this year and next year. I would like to point out that, in terms of growth, it is essentially not affected by any measures that have taken place now in 2015, and that we are currently unable to assess their effects. On the other hand, I would like to point out that it has been said here that some international organisations are forecasting growth to be lower than we are, that most of the major international organisations are forecasting growth to be the same as the growth path of the Hungarian government. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let it be so!]] Therefore, with this increase of around 3 per cent, experts agree with the EU, EBRD, OECD and IMF. I would like to turn to the fact that the relationship with the banks, which is the basis of the current legislative amendment, needs to be brought to an appropriate level. That's what we had an agreement on. This agreement was signed by the Prime Minister, so I think it reflects the government's unified position. This agreement was also a compromise agreement, as I pointed out earlier, from both the banks and the EBRD and the government. Now I would like to focus a little more on the proposal before us. The current amendment, which has come before the Parliament, does not contain any extra or new amendments. There has already been a reduction in the banking tax law, and there will still be another form. This shape has changed because the EU has made criticism of the current form, and we would like to do so, and we would like to continue to change it. Moreover, these negotiations will continue to be continued with DG Competition. We want to be able to come up with a solution that is acceptable to everyone. After all, I think, and I continue to believe, that this proposal is a compromise solution that is good for everyone overall, also for the banking system, and that is as important as possible, because they can help the economic background that we will need both this year and the coming years. That's all I wanted to say, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-01-128	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Agnes Hornung. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Mr Ander Balázs Jobbikos asked to speak after the agenda: "Deprived to stupidity - Integration with question marks III." You have five minutes.
u2015-12-01-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is undisputed that the crisis in education is one of the main elements of the overall social crisis, and at the same time one of its consequences. I would like to talk about one segment of this, about what we experience in vocational schools, what a teacher there can experience every day on his own skin. We know that while 72 percent of young people in majority society continue to study in vocational secondary school or high school, this percentage is only 27 percent for Gypsy youths. For the vast majority of gypsy students, about 68 percent of them, vocational schools are the possibility of further education after primary school. The most striking integration problems occur here, so it is worth focusing a little on this type of school. In any case, the thin results of some integration projects are disproportionate compared to the amounts allocated to them. In relation to these, there is a perfectly right to have a holed barrel analogy, and there is a right to be criticized, as, despite the resources spent on educational integration, a quarter of Roma pupils finish school by leaving the labour market without obtaining a profession or a diploma. This means thousands of new people, one way or another, dependent on the net contributors of society each year. This is how wreck society is preserved, but as long as during socialism at least the role of immigrants in Western Europe in the 70s and 80s could be played in Hungary, so they gave the training of the industrialisation phase, after the change of regime, this role also ceased, and so it is legal to sink into poverty in the third world. While the proportion of working gypsy men in the 70-80's was only a hairline behind the national level, the gap has widened enormously, and it is good to find a 25 percent indicator around them. This, in turn, is an inexhaustible breeding ground for deviants that have now become an internal barrier to integration, and the unsolvability of which, without effective treatment, will certainly cause the country to die. It is clear to everyone that, in the coming decades, there will not be enough low-quality jobs to enable hundreds of thousands of untrained people to be employed. But if not jobs, will social aid or prisons solve this problem? Jobbik obviously says that these would be bad and expensive alternatives, but it remains a legitimate question of how the school could solve problems and problems outside of it. As a vocational school educator, I myself have experienced every day that bicultural socialization, primary and secondary socialisation spaces, so the retreating socio-cultural family environment and the often regarded as an enemy, yet the often unbreakable gap between the values of the school, which is the only way out, is the source of everyday problems. If both parents of a student are long-term unemployed since the birth of their child, have no definite agenda, they do not call for work every morning, then unfortunately, mass morning delays, ignoring the ringing of the beginning of the class, and other phenomena that cause discipline to loosen up are almost natural for students. There are many complaints from teachers that the school has now become the most barren set of problems, whose responsibilities can mostly be reduced to mere child-reservation, because it is almost impossible to achieve results. The goals recorded in the curricula have become ridiculous utopia, and the only positive thing available is that they can get students to go in in the morning and not wander the streets until 1:00 p.m. or at least 2:00 p.m. What, then, is the solution? For example, boarding schools so that students can take home the other standards and culture of hope for a better life. Then the conscious idea of having children is not racist at all, because the child is not an animal, but a responsibility," said the gypsy river in Borsod. Then an increased appreciation of teachers and social professionals who serve heroically in crisis zones. Then the elimination of the culture of self-destructive opt-out, and the perception that frustration cannot be a response to primitive aggression, because it is the only way to move on. There is a need to change, because despite the billions of states, this is the only way to change pre- but often post-judications. And if the people who want to catch up want to follow someone, then it is definitely not the right thing to do, being dragged by one of the surviving mutant formations of SZDSZ, waving the false flag of the civil rights struggle. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He should be a ghetto warrior, but rather a gypsy man building a bridge between the majority and the minority, who, despite all the tempting offers, refuses to moan about how fascist and discriminatory he is (the president bell rings) the Hungarian society, because believe me, everyone here really wants to be disappointed! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-130	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, Jobbikós, also applied for a post-the-meet speech. - that's why it's important to give blood. You have the floor for five minutes, Congressman. [[19.30]]
u2015-12-01-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to share the following lines with you on the importance of giving blood and on the subject of some paper. On the initiative of the Hungarian Red Cross since 1988, 27 November is the day of blood donors. On the occasion of the day of blood donors, many blood donors are greeted throughout the country on this day, so they greeted the people who had already been through their hundredth blood donation in the last week. On the occasion of the Day of Blood Taxes, the Hungarian Red Cross thanked those who worked in blood donation organization for several years, blood donor-friendly jobs, supporters of the Blood Tax Movement and received recognition on this basis. About 59 people got that kind of credit. With an interesting stats, let me still interrupt the process of speaking. The most interesting, perhaps, is the identity of the person with the highest blood donation. This is a man from Csongrád who has given his helping arm 173 times in his life to donate blood. It's worth stopping here and clearing some data. During a complete blood donation, a single-use needle is used to remove 4.5 deciliters of blood, so it can be concluded that the person who provided 173 times his helping hand gave 778.5 deciliters of blood or, if you prefer, 77 liters of blood, gave almost 78 liters of blood. If you look at a person's body with an average of five liters of blood, you can see that he donated the complete blood of 15 people. At the ceremony, the Hungarian Red Cross presented the Silver Medal of the Blood Tax Movement for outstanding blood donation organizational work. The award for the Blood Tax-friendly workplace was awarded to 19 Hungarian jobs in order to encourage workers to participate in this socially important task as much as possible. Let's raise some blood donors by name. From the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, István Lajos Barta was awarded 106 times a blood donor. At the age of 19, he first gave blood, attended blood donation two or three times a year at his place of residence and work. From Somogy County - ander may be kind to my fellow Member - István Zelenka is a 108-fold blood donor, who gave blood for the first time during his military period. The Red Cross can always count on its unbroken, unselfishness. Blood donation is motivated by helping people in need. But congratulations from Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County also include assistant Beáta Kocsis, who has been organizing the blood donation at Claas Hungaria Kft. in Turkish Szentmiklós for several years. Thanks to his excellent organizational work, 60-70 people appear at the blood donations two times a year. Special attention is paid to donor appreciation, care. You can always count on his work. But to give an even closer example from around our own house: in the framework of the year of volunteering, several of Jobbik's members of Karcagi went to give blood to the neighbouring Bishop's Lady in mid-July, in response to a call in social media. The blood donation was in the interest of an older man who was about to undergo heart surgery, who was about to be operated on in Debrecen, and it was essential to donate blood for his surgery. Members, members of Jobbik, wanted to set a good example and help with the aim of helping a person who is about to undergo surgery with their blood, and they also wanted to draw attention to the possibility of individual blood donation, which is naturally possible at blood stations. It is worth noting the importance of giving blood. About 1,800 blood donors should be recruited daily by the state and civil society organisations to provide safe blood supply, including surgeries, accident injuries, preparation of blood products or treatment of patients requiring transfusions. A single donation of blood can help three patients. Whoever gives it always goes to the right place. On the occasion of the day of blood donation, with my speech, I wanted to draw the attention of the media and viewers to the importance of giving blood and the need to look for new ways to involve as many people as possible in blood donation. All of this shows that Jobbik not only considers blood donation very important at the word level but also at the level of action, and asks everyone to join, if they have the opportunity and the way, a large and hopefully growing camp of blood donors. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-132	Thank you, Congressman Luke. After the agenda, István Szávay Jobbikos, Member of the European Parliament, has applied for full national freedom for the peoples who live together. The promise of the Romanian National Assembly in Gyulafehérvár on 1 December 1918 is still unrefunded. You have the floor, Congressman Savay.
u2015-12-01-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, - who's still in the room. On 1 December 1918, 97 years ago, Transylvania, the National Assembly of all Romanians of Bánság and Hungary announced the merger of Romanians in Hungary with Romania. Today is a day of mourning for us Hungarians, because in addition to the 4th of June, this day symbolizes it for us. The loss of Transylvania and its Partium and Banishment. December 1 is one of the starting points for the only few wonderful years of oppression, suffering and many times terror that came to Transylvanian Hungarians because they did not want to become Romanians in their homeland. They simply wanted XX because of their nationality and their mother tongue. After the great catastrophes of the century, they are forced to choose the bitter bread of emigration, or to suffer for years or even decades in physical, spiritual or spiritual prisons because of their standing, courage and Hungarians. Thus, Bucharest, building a nation state, could carved only 1.2 million Hungarians in 1910, while Transylvanian Romanians nearly doubled. Dear Parliament, The decision of the Romanian People's Assembly held in Gyulafehérvár on 1 December 1918 promised: full national freedom for all peoples living together. But is there a national holiday in Romania where a patient is only sent home from the emergency department of the hospital in Sepsiszentgyörgy because he could not speak Romanian? In other places, we read that each people will cultivate, govern themselves, and exercise law in their own language, by individuals from their bosoms. However, we all know that this remains only a written emissary, since the actual self-government of indigenous national minorities is unthinkable without broad territorial autonomy. The assembly also promised that by individuals from its own bosom each people would use their own language with public education, public administration and justice. But what do residents who are still forced to do their courses in Romanian at the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Târgu Mureş, do their exercises in Romanian, because the Romanian majority Senate of the University is still in violation of the law to this day sabotage the creation of independent Hungarian branches? In 1918, it was also promised that it would guarantee equal rights and full freedom of the municipality for all the denominations of Romania. However, in the light of the obstruction of the Hungarian-language mass of Csángós, the sabotage of the return of church property and the renationalisation of the Székely Mikó College, we know precisely that the EU Member State now does not even respect this. But the freedom of press, association and assembly remained an empty phrase, as the Romanian authorities banned the day of Szekler freedom in March this year, chased by fire and iron and, in a hair-fearing way, even labeled the Szekler flag for the office of László Tőkés, punishing the singing of the Hungarian anthem and, in many cases, the use of bilingual signposts by law. Ladies and gentlemen, This is why our friends Imre Krisztián Kéki and Csongor Molnár, Erdélyi Jobbikós, and Csongor Molnár, have stretched out a molino in the main square of Oradea, in which the promise of 1 December 1918 was quoted in Hungarian and Romanian. An example of this failure to comply with these promises is the fact that the Romanian police have been harassing the president of the Sixty-four Vármegye Youth Movement, accusing him of terrorism because of the possession of firecrackers and sparklers. The guarantee of the long-term survival of Romanian Hungarians, so as a first step, for example, without the unconditional guarantee of broad territorial autonomy, 1 December should never be able to be the national holiday of Romania. Therefore, today there were black flags all over Transylvania, if not elsewhere because of the Romanian state's abstinence, certainly in the Hungarian hearts of Transylvania. Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember the infamous toast of Péter Medgyessy from MSZP on 1 December 2002 with the Romanian Prime Minister Adrian Năstase, or the time when Robert Alföldi wanted to make our National Theatre available to Romania to celebrate the breakup of Transylvania. I trust we can banish this spirituality to the trash heap of history forever. And although Fidesz diplomacy on the altar of strategic partnership and good neighbourly relations, like the MSZP, unfortunately sacrifices the representation of national affairs in order, Jobbik Hungary Movement continues to expect and demand Romania to keep the promises made in Gyulafehérvár and to grant full national freedom to all peoples living together. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.40]]
u2015-12-01-134	Thank you, Congressman Savay. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Home or home - is that correct, Congressman? You're home, so you're not bound by home or home. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Home or Home.]] But you're about to open it, Congressman, in five minutes. You have the floor.
u2015-12-01-135	Mr President, Dear House, At home or at home, we could send this message to a lot of young people. For those who, while exerting their power, are not able to reach a home of their own in Hungary, they are not able to resist the call-and-teaching words of Western European countries, because they often have to choose the path that ends with some of their lives not being in Hungary. Yes, sobering statistics have come up against us recently. In this sense, if a young person or even an older person wishes to obtain a home of his own, he would have to set aside an average gross salary of some 7.8 years. This is about buying an apartment of about 70 square meters. Knowing the young Hungarians, many would be satisfied with a 50-55-60 square meter. But we also see that while 16 years is not usually enough to put aside almost 8 years of gross salary in Hungary, we find a national economy in Western Europe, which is luckier than we are at the moment, more successful, where by putting away only 3 years of earnings, you can get a single home. So what we see in Hungary is that if we want to slow down the amazing emigration spiral in any way, it is worth looking at the origins of this and the motivations along which the Hungarians start. Obviously, the first is the feeling of unpredictability, the fact that life cannot be organized in a decade's perspective. When asked for specifics, the first reason is the lack of quality jobs, but the second is the sense of inability to obtain a single home. So the amazing feeling is that the Hungarian youth who works with his partner somewhere, who can't find a place to start a family, can't get to a home without straining to get ahead. So you can see that in parallel there is an amazing process. We know of hundreds of thousands of vacant properties in Hungary. Obviously, their background and ownership should therefore be separated. These include state property, local government and private individuals. In addition, research places the number of properties that are in such a bad state that it would be actually cheaper to raise new ones instead of them. However, it can also be seen that only tens of thousands of properties are known at the capital level, which could be made habitable with the help of public workers or by any other external means, and that it would be possible to ensure that rent prices do not go away by reducing the scarcity of the supply side. The same is true of rural cities. If you walk through the countryside in Hungary, even on a road trip, you can see that there are crowds of depopulated villages, streets, street lines. So Hungary would be a place for young Hungarians to become full. Rather, we see that this hundreds of thousands of vacant properties combined with a state-supported home-building and rental-building programme achieves a tremendous lack of availability in Hungary. If we add to this pattern that the number of newly built apartments is so low at present that the total real estate stock can only be replaced every 400 years, then we can see that, say, for a panel house in Békásmegyer, we cannot count on 400 years of existence with a good heart. Jobbik therefore offers a state-supported home-building and rental-building programme not only to the attention of the current Hungarian governments, but also to the current Hungarian governments, which work with qualified Hungarian contractors, providing housing, housing for young Hungarians and older people, with central material procurement and printed prices, which, following compliance with the minimum rules of coexistence, can also be owned after a few years after the low rent has become a voluntary repayment. This will boost many sectors of the Hungarian economy. I would like to note that Hungary has given us the opportunity to choose and to take advantage of this moment of grace. In parallel with this, in Scandinavia, tens of thousands of migrants are being relocated and resettled. And according to press reports, the immigration agency there first makes a binding appeal, later only in the form of a recommendation, to remove the cross from the residences of the movers, where appropriate, from their church institutions, to remove the religious symbols, and to accept anyone who can. Compared to this, Hungarian young people do not have a living space at the moment, while there are hundreds of thousands of flats, houses and real estates empty. This is why the elemental demand is to create these opportunities for young Hungarians before people from outside try to fill the same places. After all, a series of generations of Hungarians fought for us to be here and fill the Carpathian Basin. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-01-136	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority advocate, who applied for a post-scheduled speech, is not in the room. We have therefore reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful good night. [[Meeting ended at 7:45 p.m.]]
