u2015-11-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the draft law on the publication of the contract on mutual assistance in criminal matters will follow. The government referral is T/7352. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the author. Secretary of State, please.
u2015-11-18-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to publish the contract on mutual assistance in criminal matters between Hungary and Kosovo. In the contract, Hungary and Kosovo undertake to provide each other with legal assistance in criminal matters in the event of such a request. The contract sets out the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing legal assistance, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for assistance, the content and the mandatory annexes to the request for assistance, and includes cost-bearing and data protection rules. In addition to the general rules, the contract contains special rules on the following legal aid: tracing and seizure of objects, transfer and return of objects, files and documents, service of subpoenas and procedural documents, appearance of witnesses, experts and defendants, interview or hearing by video conferencing, temporary transfer of prisoners for the purpose of being witnesses, receipt of criminal proceedings, information on criminal record, transmission of judicial information. The publication of the contract must be done by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On matters not covered by the contract, the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, 1996 XXXVIII. The provisions of law shall prevail. The Treaty shall enter into force only if the Contracting Parties publish the provisions of the Treaty in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! Kosovo, with a population of two million before the 1999 conflict, has a total area of 10,887 square kilometres, to date, shares the international community's members with countries which recognise and recognise it. On 19 March 2008, Hungary recognised Kosovo's independence, the physical security of which is guaranteed by NATO-led international peacekeeping forces, perhaps known as KFOR and the EU's rule of law strengthening mission EULEX. 331 Hungarian soldiers serve in the international peacekeeping force under NATO command. The country in a vulnerable band of earthquakes is abundant in mineral resources, in particular the rise in the price of tin and lead on the world market opens up significant opportunities for the exploitation of mineral resources. Recently, EU Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn announced that the EU is expected to close the visa requirement against Kosovo soon. In addition, he said that Brussels will support the country's economic development, increasing its competitiveness and resolving administrative problems by around EUR 650 million by 2020. However, he added that Kosovo has committed itself to settling relations with Belgrade. The proposal before us contains the publication of the Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo. But before I get to that, it is worth giving some thought to how our relations have evolved so far. Data on trade between Hungary and Kosovo have been available in the KSH database since 2009. Hungarian exports have been on a dynamic growth trend since 2009. Most of the exchange of goods is Hungarian exports to Kosovo. This exceeded the previous year by 22 percentage points in 2013. Exports from Hungary to Kosovo are mostly concentrated in trade in dairy products, eggs, chemical products, clothing and footwear, as well as electrical machinery, road vehicles, news media, timber and pharmaceuticals. Imports from Kosovo increased by 90 percentage points in 2013 compared to 2012. Imports from Kosovo represent 31% of food, 48% of processed products and 18% of machinery. The recovery of our economic relations also indicates that the Hungarian and Kosmet relations system is increasing, one of the steps of which is the proposal before us. In June 2015, Hungary and Kosovo signed a bilateral international agreement on mutual assistance in criminal matters, which regulates inter alia the cooperation of prosecutors. The application of the Convention will make criminal cooperation between the two countries simpler and more effective and will help to combat international crime more effectively. In addition, the provisions of the document facilitate proof and regulate the order of transmission of documents in criminal proceedings and of hearings. As the Secretary of State has said, the Convention sets out the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing legal assistance, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for assistance, the content and the mandatory annexes to the request for assistance, and contains cost-bearing and data protection rules. In short, this is what lies before us, and I call for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-18-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/7352. The House is discussing a bill on the publication of the Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo. The conclusion of the mutual assistance agreement in criminal matters between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo in Pristina on 9 June 2015 is justified by the growing Hungarian and Kosovo relations. The objective of the Convention, as Mr Secretary of State said, is to establish a legal framework for judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries. Its application will make criminal cooperation between the two countries simpler and more effective and will also help to combat international crime more effectively. Pursuant to the Convention, the Parties commit themselves to provide each other with legal assistance in criminal proceedings relating to criminal offences which, at the time of the request for assistance, fall under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities of the requesting Party. The Convention sets out the content and the mandatory annexes to the request for assistance, the reasons for its refusal, the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for assistance, and the rules on cost and data protection. In addition to the general rules, the Convention includes special rules on legal aid: the search and seizure of objects, the transfer and return of objects, files and documents, the service of subpoenas and procedural documents, the appearance of witnesses, experts and defendants, the interview or hearing by video conferencing and the temporary transfer of prisoners to the judicial authorities of the requesting Party for the purpose of being witnesses. It also regulates the conditions for taking over criminal proceedings, the content of the application, information on the basis of criminal records and the transmission of judicial information. [[9.10]] The Parties shall conclude the Convention for an indefinite period or at any time terminate the Convention by written notice sent to the other Party by diplomatic means 6 months before the date of termination. The date of entry into force of the Convention shall be determined by the Minister for Foreign Policy by means of a notice published immediately in the Hungarian Gazette. The Minister for Justice shall take the necessary measures to implement the law. Certain articles of the Convention therefore comply with the internationally accepted provisions of modern legal aid agreements in criminal matters and, of course, also with the Hungarian legislation in force. For this reason, the MSZP parliamentary group supports the bill. However, this proposal also provides an opportunity to talk about the experience of the international agreement previously concluded with Kosovo on a similar subject, and to look at the situation of Hungarian-Kosovo relations, the political and economic situation of Kosovo and its international relations. In the previous parliamentary term, the Parliament adopted a bill announcing the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo on cooperation in preventing and combating crime, which was announced by a law of 2013. It might have been useful for Members to have been informed of the experience of implementing that international agreement for at least a few reasons in this bill, but I hope that the representatives of the Ministry of Interior will not miss the opportunity to report on it here during the debate. On the other hand, it is worth taking a look at the situation of Hungarian-Kosovo relations, the political and economic situation and international relations of the independent Republic of Kosovo declared unilaterally on 17 February 2008. Hungary recognised Kosovo's independence on 19 March 2008. It has also consistently supported Kosovo's international recognition, the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law. We took up diplomatic relations on 26 March 2008. The high-level visits between the two countries have been regular in recent years and the establishment of contractual relations has also begun. Kosovo was already involved in the international agreement to establish a European Common Aviation Area in 2009. The readmission agreement was concluded in 2012 with the primary aim of ensuring the smooth return of persons residing illegally in the territory of the two States, nationals of the other Party and, in certain cases, third-country nationals. This was followed by the signing of cooperation agreements between customs, investment incentives agencies and industrial chambers. In 2013, the previously mentioned agreement on cooperation in preventing and combating crime and the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation were signed. The participation of Hungary in the international mission in Kosovo is also an important element of Hungarian-Kosovo relations. Hungary's national interest is the stability of the Western Balkans, so we are taking part in the international peacekeeping mission in Kosovo with significant forces, some half a thousand soldiers. In addition to the developing bilateral relations system for the last nearly 8 years, however, Hungary should also place a particular emphasis on supporting Kosovo's European integration process. In addition to the stability of the region, the success of the Kosovo state-building process, the functioning of a functioning political system and a market economy, which upholds European values, is also very important for our country. At the moment of declaration of independence, many were skeptical in this regard, and we must say that the balance of nearly eight years has been more mixed. With regard to the institutional sphere of state building - constitutionalization, lawmaking, public administration building - the image has done well for the self-employed Kosovo, but it is not so reassuring in terms of the control of corruption and the protection of minorities. As a member of the European Union, Hungary should also be involved in these issues, so that Kosovo can successfully fight corruption that cripples its economy and build a minority-friendly environment. Hungary has a special experience in developing a minority-friendly environment, policy and legislation for the sake of Hungarians across borders, so we can also help the construction of Kosovo as a spokesperson with these experiences. Unfortunately, the state recognition process was also slow, as the international community also showed divisions in this respect, which hindered Kosovo's development. However, it is positive that the EU Member States that refused recognition did not block the EU's engagement, which was also facilitated by membership of international economic organisations, since Kosovo became a member of the IMF and the World Bank in June 2009. In the case of economic relations, it is a recent development that last week the agreement on economic cooperation in Kosmet was finalised by Péter Szijjártó Hungarian and Hashim Thaçi Minister of Foreign Affairs in Kosovo. The bilateral document, which has now been finalised, will be signed at the beginning of December at Hashim Thaçi's visit to Budapest, which will result in the establishment of a Joint Economic Committee. At the same time, Eximbank opened a EUR 61.5 million credit line, allowing for increased cooperation between companies. It is also a positive point that the Visegrád countries have agreed to push for the acceleration of the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union. In addition, the Western Balkans Fund has been established, but unfortunately it has not been shown how much money the Member States have invested in the Fund. However, in the case of possible developments in Hungarian-Kosovo economic relations, it is worth starting from the fact that agriculture is the main source of official livelihoods in Kosovo, as about 53 percent of the country's territory is nearly 5743 square kilometres of agricultural land. It is also noteworthy that Kosovo's mineral wealth is also significant from a European point of view, while manufacturing capacity is still underdeveloped. In the mining sector there are dominant ore products such as nickel, zinc, tin and lead, as well as silver, and also significant lignite assets. Kosovo is therefore a significant economic partner with potential opportunities from a Hungarian point of view. Accordingly, it is also worth continuing to build bilateral relations. We consider that this bill, which includes the publication of an agreement on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the two countries, also contributes to the further development of relations between Hungary and Kosovo, so I must mention again: the adoption of this proposal is supported by the MSZP faction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-6	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana is next, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-18-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, International legal assistance in criminal matters means cooperation between different States in order to carry out criminal proceedings or to carry out the sentence of imprisonment imposed, where the person of the perpetrator or the nature of the offence makes several States involved in a particular case. These procedures concern cooperation between Hungary and third countries, because there are other simplified rules within the European Union. Such a third State is Kosovo, on which the above Treaty is now being published. Dear Parliament, Under the bilateral international agreement concluded between Hungary and Kosovo, the Parties undertake to provide mutual assistance in criminal proceedings relating to criminal offences. The details of this are regulated by the bill before us. On 11 June 2015, Hungary and Kosovo signed the negotiated contract, which will soon be followed by an extradition agreement and an agreement allowing the sentenced persons to be transferred to each other's territories. [[9.20]] These agreements are also necessary, especially before the fence is built, but ever since, illegal border crossings have been arriving in our country from Kosovo. The proposal, agreement and hopefully soon-to-be-followers before us can speed up and facilitate decision-making and enforcement in these matters, which is extremely important. The Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the bill, so of course the publication of the treaty. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-8	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows the T/7353 of the Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of sentenced persons. T/7354 on the publication of the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan. T/7355 on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan. The joint general debate on legislative proposals No 1 until closure. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-11-18-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the legislative proposals before us is to publish the conventions between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer, extradition of sentenced persons and mutual assistance in criminal matters. The purpose of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons is to strengthen criminal cooperation between the two countries and to better regulate the transfer procedure for sentenced persons in order to allow them to serve their sentence in their own country to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. The Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons lays down the conditions and grounds for refusal of transfer of sentenced persons, the documents to be sent for the purpose of carrying out the procedure, the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for transfer, the rules for the transfer, the rules for the execution of the judgment received, the rules for the obligation to inform the parties and the persons convicted. The Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons provides for transit, use of languages, bearing costs, relation to other international treaties, protection of personal data and dispute resolution. The purpose of the extradition agreement is to lay down rules on extradition procedures for Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan, thereby increasing the effectiveness of international law enforcement and criminal liability. The extradition convention shall specify the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and shall settle cases of transfer to a third State or of conflict of extradition requests. The Convention on Extradition provides for the application of the principle of speciality, simplified extradition, prior arrest, surrender or deferral of the person, the institution of temporary extradition and transit. The extradition agreement also contains provisions on confiscation of objects, cost bearing, data protection, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. The purpose of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters is to establish a legal framework for judicial assistance in criminal matters between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan. In the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan undertake to provide each other with legal aid in criminal matters upon such a request. The Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters sets out the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing assistance, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for assistance, the content and the mandatory annexes to the request for assistance, and includes cost-bearing and data protection rules. The publication of individual conventions is required by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. Issues not covered by the Convention shall be governed by the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters. Conventions may enter into force only if the provisions of the Conventions are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, I ask that the honourable Members adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-10	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of Fidesz, is the first in the lead speakerial round. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! It is a great pleasure for me that as a former student of the Mándoky College of the People's College of Lakitelek and as a good friend of the widow and son of the linguist-turcologist István Mándoky Kongur, and as a member of the Hungarian-Kazakh branch of the Interparlamental Union, of which Minister Mihály Varga is the president, I can stand here as the lead speaker of Fidesz. The proposals before us, which we are discussing together, are just a slice of developing, perhaps even advanced, Hungarian-Kazakh relations. We can say that Kazakh relations have been valued in the spirit of the Eastern opening announced after the government change in 2010. However, this was not the beginning of the networking process that is increasingly strengthening the cooperation between the two countries. The meeting of Kurultáj, the nomadic nomadic cavalry gives us the opportunity to meet continuously, our researchers are known and recognized people in Kazakhstan, and the fact that the Kun Association has been a member of the World Federation of Kazakhstan since 2007 all show that it had a embedded foundation in the field of Eastern opening policy in the 9th largest state on Earth, home to 16 million people. The multi-ethnic, multi-ethnic country occupies 6th place in the world in terms of the abundance of raw materials resources. It is among the world's top ten countries in terms of natural gas and oil reserves. The uranium sites in Kazakhstan occupy about the second place in the world's uranium reserves for size. For the porcelain industry and the glass industry, Kazakhstan has the richest reserve of raw materials. The land and mountains of the country contain the rarest gems, the most diverse building and covering materials. It is also worth saying a few words about what characterizes the economic relations between our country and a country rich in its culture and its natural treasures. Kazakhstan was Hungary's third most important economic partner in 2013. Mutual economic relations developed in Soviet times, but continued after the change of regime. Energy delivery machines and means of transport, food products and raw materials are essential elements of bilateral trade in goods. MOL is present on the Kazakh market as a major investor on the Hungarian side. From the point of view of Hungarian exports, the production of agriculture, mechanical engineering, building materials and premium category foods and consumer goods can be considered as perspective sectors. In addition, the expansion of Hungarian oil investments in Kazakhstan is, of course, promising. Practically any industrial production placement in Kazakhstan can be profitable. Hungary's strategic partner Kazakhstan, the range of cooperation opportunities between the two countries is quite wide, including agriculture, modernisation of manufacturing, pharmaceutical and health industries, automotive manufacturing, export of Hungarian technology and tourism. [[9.30]] During 2015, Hungarian food, construction and oil exhibitions were held in Kazakhstan. It is a good news that Hungary's participation in the World Exhibition in the capital of Kazakhstan in 2017 has been confirmed, according to NGM. Our close and constantly evolving relationships are well illustrated by the large number of high-level visits, including presidential, prime minister and ministerial visits. I've already referred to our cultural relations. As a non-completing addition, I note that in 2014 the book of President Nazarbayev Kazakh was presented in Budapest, and that same year one of Kazakhstan's national poets received a statue and promenade in the capital of our country. I thought it was important to say all of this so that it could be seen that the proposals before us do not hang in the air, but form an element of a broad and perspective relationship system. Several extradition assistance and detention contracts are in force between Hungary and Kazakhstan or are planned to be signed. As the Secretary of State said and explained in detail, T/7353. The application of the Convention within the framework of the present proposal will make it easier and more effective to transfer prisoners between the two countries in order to serve their sentence in their own country to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. T/7354. The Convention on Extradition between the two countries makes the extradition procedure simpler and more effective, thus facilitating more effective action against international crime, while T/7355. The Convention, which is the subject of the present proposal, helps to implement procedural assistance in criminal matters. All three conventions and their articles comply with the relevant internationally accepted provisions and the Hungarian legislation in force. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-18-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In today's general debate, we are talking about three conventions on the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, the Convention on Extradition and the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. The conclusion of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Transfer of Convicts signed in Budapest on 3 June 2014 and the Convention on Extradition and the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters concluded in Astana on 1 April 2015 is justified by the growing Hungarian-Kazakh relations. The application of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons will make it easier and more efficient to transfer prisoners between the two countries in order to serve their sentence in their own country in order to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. The Convention sets out the central authorities, the conditions for transit, the reasons for refusal of transit, the content and annexes to the request for transit, the execution of the judgment, and allows the transit through, i.e. the transit of sentenced persons to be transferred by a third State to the other Party for the purpose of the transfer of the sentence. The application of the extradition agreement will make the extradition procedure between the two countries simpler and more effective, i.e. both parties will issue, at the request of the other Party, persons on their territory who are being sought for an extradition offence for the purpose of prosecuting or executing a judgment of the other Party by its courts. The Convention sets out the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, designates the central authorities, the content and annexes of the extradition request, provides for a temporary extradition arrest, in cases of urgency, the applicant party may request the temporary arrest of the person requested to be issued until receipt of the extradition request. It also provides for proceedings in the event of the submission of simultaneous applications, deferred transfers, temporary extradition and so-called transit of the person issued by the third State to the other party. The application of the Third Convention, the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, will also make it easier and more effective to carry out judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries, i.e. the parties commit themselves to provide assistance to each other in criminal proceedings relating to criminal offences which fall under the jurisdiction of the competent judicial authorities of the requesting Party at the time of the application for assistance. The Convention also designates the central authorities in this case, setting out the conditions for the execution, refusal and deferral of the request for assistance, the form and content of the request. In addition, it contains specific rules on the following legal assistance: the search and identification of persons and objects, the service of subpoenas and documents, the taking of evidence in the requested or requesting Party, the hearing by video conferencing, the temporary transfer of prisoners for the purpose of being witnesses, the provision of official or public documents, search, seizure and insurance measures, the identification of bank and financial information. The Parties shall conclude agreements for an indefinite period or at any time terminate them by written notice sent to the other Party by diplomatic means. The termination shall take effect 180 days after the date of receipt. The date of entry into force of the conventions shall be determined by the Minister for Foreign Policy by means of a notice published immediately in the Hungarian Gazette. The Minister for Justice will take the necessary measures to implement the law. Some of the articles of the Convention are considered to comply with the internationally accepted provisions of the modern legal aid agreements in criminal matters, as well as with the Hungarian legislation in force, which is why the MSZP parliamentary group supports the presentation. But, as I mentioned in the previous presentation, this proposal also gives us the opportunity to talk a little bit about value choice and Kazakh-Hungarian relations in relation to the Hungarian government's activities. The Hungarian Socialist Party considered it important and considers the development of the economic, educational and scientific relations of Hungarian-Kazakh relations to be important. But unlike the Prime Minister, we have never felt or felt more at home in Kazakhstan than in the European Union, for example. If the Hungarian Prime Minister feels more at home in Kazakhstan than in the European Union, it is only due to the fact that his hosts there will not take account of the democratic rule of law standards in Hungary. He is obviously also sympathetic to the fact that the Kazakh head of state has always won the elections with a result of around 95 percent, and now it is his legal right to always resume for head of state and even appoint his own successor. In view of these statements, it is feared that the Hungarian Prime Minister, who is obsessed with Brussels but envious of the quarter-century reign of the head of state in Central Asia, has forgotten that Hungary's accession to the European Union and NATO has been confirmed by a referendum on the basis of a conscious choice of value and responsibility. These values are primarily human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights, freedom of enterprise or the protection of cultural, religious and ethnic diversity. Along these lines, Hungary consciously assumed a role and responsibility in the community and federal system of countries with the same values. The Hungarian-Kazakh cooperation and the three proposals before us can be judged on the basis of values and interests, i.e. Hungary can develop its cooperation with other countries in a federal system with the community of countries with the same values and in partnership with other countries, such as Kazakhstan or even Russia, along with the common interests of mutual economic benefits. Accordingly, we agree and support the strengthening and deepening of Hungarian-Kazakh primarily economic, educational, cultural and scientific relations. In the last two decades, the most important country in Central Asia has received a total of 160 billion dollars of working capital. [[9.40]] In addition, it continues to attract foreign investors enthusiastically, the country launched a three-year development and industrialisation investment programme worth USD 24 billion; the second privatisation package, in which the objects to be sold were listed. In addition to these criminal agreements, MOL's cooperation in Kazakhstan is important for the Hungarian economy, the creation of a direct flight between the two countries, the exploitation of engineering services in the field of nuclear cooperation, the launch of a common financial fund for Kazagro Holding and Eximbank, bilateral vocational training cooperation or even a grant for 200 Kazakh students. Currently active joint ventures cover the leading sectors of cooperation in pharmaceutical manufacturing, wholesale of electrical machinery, parts, food, machinery and the chemical industry. At the same time, Kazakhstan started to develop in almost all areas with great momentum, and they welcome Hungarian expertise and professionals to implement them. The participation of Hungarian companies in the modernisation of Kazakhstan's agriculture and manufacturing industry, as well as in the development of pharmaceutical and health industries, can be an important point in the expansion of relations. In addition to the opportunities offered to Hungarian companies, it is worth considering Kazakhstan's regional location, which makes it an ideal starting point for building further connections in the region. The country cooperates closely with Moscow, the founder of the Eurasian Economic Union, and is also in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which is also involved in military and security policies dominated by Russia and China. In terms of bilateral economic relations, however, it is worth noting that, according to KSH data, the figures for the most important relations in the CIS countries - Russia, Ukraine, Belarus or Kazakhstan - for the entire year 2014 still do not reach or barely reach the 2008 level despite the government's success propaganda. That's probably why Mónika Bartos talked about the 2013 data. It is even worse if we compare these numbers with Kazakhstan alone. While Hungarian exports amounted to $ 403 million in 2008, in 2014 they barely exceeded $167 million; for imports, they reached $111 million in 2008 and almost $40 million in 2014. In the light of the figures, the question arises as to how successfully and effectively the Hungarian-Kazakh branch of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry established as an instrument for the development of bilateral economic relations and the Kazakh-Hungarian Business Council performs the tasks entrusted to it. In order to highlight the strategic nature of bilateral relations and cooperation, it has recently been decided to set up a strategic council between the two countries. The question is whether the strategy for economic relations between the two countries will be discussed? It seems that many committees have little results. Tourism can also be a potential cooperation between the two countries. Our country is a popular destination due to its historical and cultural monuments, natural treasures and recreational possibilities. However, it seems that the Hungarian government did not rush to take this opportunity, because according to our information they intend to present Hungary in Kazakhstan at the 2017 Expo. Government circles also consider the development of technical and intellectual cooperation in the fields of nature conservation, green economy, infrastructure development and water management as an opportunity offered by the Expo. It is assumed that Hungary can provide a great deal to the business participants of Kazakhstan in these areas through know-how transfer, the creation of additional joint ventures, professional relations and cooperation. The only question is why we have to wait until 2017. If we have been able to sign the Convention on the Transfer of Convicts and the Convention on Extradition and Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters as quickly as we have been presented here, then why can we not move forward more effectively in these areas of cooperation? The question arises as to why the Hungarian national trading house in Astana, opened in 2013, does not help the world as a third. While we are at the trading house, it is also worth mentioning that there is no information about your contact details - postal or e-mail address, telephone number, website, staff, operating principles, ownership background, results, problems - even on the organization's website. How does a Hungarian company wishing to invest in Kazakhstan or a Kazakh entrepreneur interested in a Hungarian market find the organization that was supposed to be set up in order to facilitate investment in the development of economic relations between the two countries? In the case of bilateral relations, I mentioned the possibility of cooperation in education for a reason, as besides the Hungarian scholarship facility for Kazakh students, it would be worth examining the results of the higher education reform in Kazakhstan, as a result of which several Kazakh universities were included in the world's top five hundred higher education institutions. The state spends 9.5 times more on education than at the end of the 1990s, while there are significant results in higher education: PhD training approximating western standards, higher universities on international rankings, active foreign relations and the rest. Finally, referring to Viktor Orbán's statement that it is rather strange for people to have to go to the East to feel at home, I would like to reiterate that we are EU and NATO members in Hungary and we feel at home in the Carpathian Basin, but in the interests of the Hungarian economy we are happy to support the participation of Hungarian companies in Kazakhstan. In order to enhance economic relations, we support the conclusion of agreements that also facilitate legal cooperation between the two countries. Accordingly, I repeat that the MSZP supports the Convention on the Transfer of Convicts, the Convention on Extradition and the draft laws on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, and even its work in the Fidesz Kun Federation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-14	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-18-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The three legislative proposals before us are intended to facilitate criminal cooperation between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan. These three proposals complement each other. I would not go into the details on criminal law, as I have given the most important information on this in relation to Kosovo on the previous item, and I would briefly like to go through all three legislative proposals. T/7353. Proposal No 1 would make it easier to transport prisoners from both countries to their mother countries. According to this proposal, this would help prisoners to reintegrate later into society. Some of the articles of the Convention comply with the internationally accepted provisions of the modern transit agreements, as well as the Hungarian legislation in force. This is also true for the other two legislative proposals, including T/7354, which aims to simplify and make extradition procedures more effective between the two countries and to help combat international crime, while T/7355. The purpose of the bill is to make the implementation of criminal procedural assistance between the two countries simpler and more effective and to promote more effective action against international crime. Laws are essential, since, even slowly, economic and political relations between Hungary and Kazakhstan are strengthened, which requires a stable legal background. There are many potential opportunities in this, and this is true not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the neighbouring countries. We remember that in 2013, the Hungarian trading house opened in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan. It would be nice to know what results have been achieved since then. I have already indicated in my previous speeches to Parliament and in the Committee on European Affairs that we would like to be informed of this, since it is important to see with figures what progress we have made in terms of the policy of Eastern opening over recent years. I indicated earlier here in Parliament that we could not obtain adequate information on the website. Since then, progress has been made here, which I can welcome, since there is now much more transparent and meaningful information on the website, but I would consider it important to provide detailed information. This is, of course, primarily within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, but here I also considered it important to note this in the debate on these legislative proposals. 16 July 2015 is an important date: there has been a significant change, since we do not even need a visa from Hungary to travel to Kazakhstan if the trip is up to 15 days. [[9.50]] This could offer serious opportunities to increase economic relations. We therefore ask the Government to further develop our relations with the Eastern countries by means of contracts and agreements similar to these agreements. For us better people, the policy of Eastern opening is extremely important, and we hope that we can deliver meaningful results in the next period. We look forward to the information that I have mentioned and, of course, we can support these legislative proposals, and we provide our vote for the adoption of this publication. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one asked for a two-minute speech. He did not predict anyone's intention to speak in writing. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I find that it is not, and therefore the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up, Honourable Parliament, the 1995 LIII on the general rules for the protection of the environment. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/7395. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[For signal:]] But since he is not here, it is Mr Zsolt Németh, Secretary of State, who is speaking as rapporteur. So I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh, please tell me his national text. Here.
u2015-11-18-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Although the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment has been amended several times over its 20-year period, it has not changed its concept. Nor does the amendment proposal submitted to the Honourable Parliament wish to put it on a new footing, extend it only with additional elements, and clarify, rationalise the regulation at certain points. The draft law lays down rules for three main areas, namely noise protection, meteorology and air purity protection. With regard to noise regulation, the draft law covers issues related to local government regulation. The amendment does not make any significant changes in this area, but makes the regulation clearer and clearer. At present, noise protection tasks requiring local government legislation are fragmented and are published in several laws. In order to improve transparency, the new legislation collects these tasks in a law, the environmental law. At the same time, the amendment does not mean any change in the content, local authorities may continue to establish regulations for the designation of quiet areas and areas with increased protection from noise, as well as for the establishment of local noise protection rules. The draft law also makes it clear that in areas directly managed by the Metropolitan Municipality, the General Assembly of the Metropolitan Municipality has the power to establish a local noise protection regulation, thus opening up the possibility for the General Assembly of the Metropolitan Municipality to establish noise protection rules for Margaret Island. The performance of meteorology-related tasks is undoubtedly related to environmental protection due to the impact of weather factors on air quality and ecosystems. The meteorological service is becoming increasingly important as a result of monitoring and forecasting the process of climate change. The social benefits of producing weather data, forecasting and warning are also unquestioned. However, the rules governing the conduct of meteorological activities and the tasks to be performed by the State are not provided for in our legislation. The draft law fills this gap. The precise definition of the content of the meteorological activity and the determination of the related public tasks provide a guarantee that meteorological data and information are available to society as a whole. The amendment also opens the possibility of creating a government decree that provides professional guarantees for the proper level of provision of meteorological activity in both the public and the competition sectors. I wish to stress that, following the amendment of the law, the role of the National Meteorological Service and the Hungarian Defence Geoinformation Service involved in the performance of the flight meteorological tasks remains unchanged. The third main objective of the legislation is to amend the provisions of the law authorising air purification and noise protection. The provisions of the draft law in this area serve to adapt to the division of labour between government bodies. In the future, only those ministerial decrees on the environment require the agreement of the minister responsible for health, which actually affect the minister's role. The regulation of areas with direct health effects, such as air quality, noise load and vibration load limits, or the hazard classification of air pollutants, will continue to be achieved through the health portfolio. Our tasks are also linked to the measurement and assessment of air pollution. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the entry into force of the proposal to amend the environmental law with their professional proposals, contributions and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-18-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Once again, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2015-11-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! As the Secretary of State said in his exposé, the law on the general rules for protecting the environment proposed to be amended in this proposal has been changed several times over the last two decades, but its concept, the direction it represents, has remained stable. As has been said, the proposal before us does not want to put it on a new footing either. The terms simplification, clarification and rationalisation were used in relation to it. These concepts are important and useful if we are to act effectively in the field of environmental protection. This is especially the case when three, in substance, two areas are affected that are completely entangled in the moments of our lives from birth to death. Noise is present every minute of our lives and is almost invisiblely part of our everyday lives. Noise harms are insidiously, often uncontrollable in our hearing organs. It is no wonder that many, and not only in old age, suffer hearing loss. Therefore, it is good and useful to have the tasks of the leaders of a community, the municipalities, in this regard, in a legislation. The proposal complements the environmental legislation by allowing the municipal government to declare areas more protected from noise protection, to designate a quiet zone and to establish local noise protection rules. The above-mentioned options of designation are intended to preserve areas whose environmental status is still favourable. The other large area covered by the amending proposal is the regulation of domestic meteorological activity. Meteorology is an ancient science, its name comes from Aristotle, but over the millennia it has progressed enormously. Perhaps one of the biggest jumps was observed in the 1950s when it was possible to calculate and conduct experiments with computers. However, based on the experience gained in this way only over a few decades, we are trying to learn about the processes of thousands of years, even tens of thousands of years, but not just the past, the present, but also the future. [[10.00]] Therefore, as the Secretary of State pointed out, one of the main instruments of our fight to combat climate change is meteorology, but it is a guide, just to mention a few, in agriculture, medicine and even in the development of our everyday habits. Therefore, it is important and forward-looking, if the meteorological activity and the related public tasks are properly regulated, the proposal serves this purpose. The third area covered by the amending proposal is the scope of the delegation provisions. The Secretary of State also mentioned that these clarify, for example, which ministerial decrees on the environment require the agreement of the Minister for Health, for which he does not. As has been said, areas with a direct health impact include one example: air quality or air pollutants, their hazard classification. How important this is these days, when we are struggling with, for example, PM10 loads, does not need to be stressed specifically. The Secretary of State has discussed several details in his exposé, and I would not like to repeat them, but simply ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-18-20	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-21	Thank you very much. We now have an amendment to the Law on Environmental General Rules. As many people have already said before, the current fragmentation of noise protection tasks is now being resolved, and legislation has so far been in several laws. According to the amendment, municipal noise protection tasks will be included in a law, the environmental law. From the districts, as we can see, these tasks are being taken away, and it is also clear that the Metropolitan Municipality will create local noise regulations for Margaret Island, if it has already acquired them for itself last year. The status, tasks, powers and operation of the OMSZ has been established by the government in a regulation. The regulation lists certain tasks covered by the meteorological activity carried out by the State. In the future, only the Minister of Health will have to agree with the Minister of Health on the actual tasks of the Minister of the Environment, and the Minister of Environment will no longer be authorised to establish rules for measuring, testing, monitoring and evaluating the impact of weather factors on air pollution. We see the regulation of the responsibilities of ministers in this amendment, but we must not forget that there is a desire to solve their responsibilities and the long-term solution to the problem and that their proposals are still not changed. At our last meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, we have heard that the number of asthma patients has increased significantly in recent years. That is why it is important to define precisely which minister is responsible for solving these tasks and these problems, and what proposals are put on our table in the long term so that these problems can be resolved. We could also listen to the fact that in residential use, heating, the population has changed strongly over the past few years, and much more people are heating their homes by burning coal, wood and biomass. I think this has a serious impact on air pollution data, which is a serious responsibility of the government, because people have moved from gas to these heating facilities in recent years. Most people in the countryside, in the villages, no longer use gas because they cannot pay their gas bills, so they moved strongly to the trees, coal and biomass. Unfortunately, in many places, we have heard even from your representatives that people are heating with wet trees in most cases, which is even worse in this respect. Please pay attention to these issues, as we can read in the OECD report that the average age of men in Hungary is 72.2 years, and that is 79.1 for women. Since the number of asthma diseases increases significantly, it has a strong impact on people's quality of life. In the winter months, you can also see that half of the waste disappears from the trash cans. We can see that most of the waste in the countryside today is unfortunately heated by people, so there is no waste in the trash cans. I ask the government to think carefully about both its policy and its waste policy, and to take a little more into account the problems of rural people. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-22	Thank you very much. It's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Lajos Kepli. Here.
u2015-11-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, A proposal of a technical nature is a technical amendment to the environmental law. As the Secretary of State mentioned, and several of the speakers, there is now one amendment to the 1995 LIII amendment adopted in 1995. Law. This is the manyth amendment, but basically in 1995 the Hungarian Parliament adopted a state-of-the-art environmental law, which I think is among the best in Europe. In general, this can be said for the environmental situation and for legislation, since then this situation has only gradually deteriorated and in some areas there has been a slight improvement. The recoding of the environmental law and the creation of a new law may be necessary, but I do not think this is a timely issue. By amending the law, minor problems, technical aspects, a legal settlement and similar legal tasks can be solved. In order to create a new environmental law, a new concept and a new approach would be needed, and Hungary would need a new government. At the moment, this issue is not on the agenda. What is on the agenda is the amendment of the environmental law, the meteorological, noise and other technical clarifications, in respect of which we agree with the proposals for amendments, and we can support it because it is extremely important, especially given the effects of climate change, that that part of meteorological activities should also be regulated in the environmental law, which is linked to the identification, forecasting, estimation of the effects of climate change, and to the acquisition of the data required for this, and the provision of data, including atmospheric mapping or any other data collection. As far as noise protection is concerned, it is also a very important area, and I think that perhaps we are still taking noise pollution least seriously among the types of environmental pollution, although it has the same harmful effect on human health if it has no more harmful effects than any other form of pollution, air pollution or drinking water. All our lives, noise is increasingly present as an environmental hazard, and especially in large cities, it has become so much part of our lives that it doesn't even notice it, but nevertheless, it constantly grinds up our health and nervous system, and without realizing it, it destroys human health, so it should be paid attention in particular, because it is not as spectacular as air pollution or soil pollution, water pollution, but at least as dangerous. I think that even more stringent regulations could be used to help us in this area so that we do not burden or make life difficult for people with unnecessary noise. Today there are a number of sources of noise still in our lives, which, let me say, is not necessarily justified by its existence or at least by the level of noise emissions, and in this respect I think that it could be helped by legislative or legislative tasks. Perhaps one of the most valuable things in people's lives is regeneration, refreshment, rest, which can only be done in a quiet environment to make a person's nervous system regenerate properly; let's say, between two working days or two tiring days, sleep requires silence and rest, and often people don't get it in their everyday lives. These are civilizational harms, you might say, but they certainly justify a more serious approach to the problem. Obviously, it is only a technical clarification here that it is being put under a law, and the body of representatives of the local government has the power to declare areas as noise protection, the designation of quiet zones. [[10.10]] The result of previous legislative processes is that in the case of Margaret Island, the Metropolitan Municipality can create a local noise protection regulation, as it has been transferred from district jurisdiction to the City Council. Overall, I can say once again at the end that we can support this amending proposal, including proposals that are technically and politically eligible. In any event, it is appropriate to establish, with the agreement of the Minister for Health, the tasks assigned to the various ministerial powers at the end, the limit of noise pollution and environmental noise, or to set the limit value for the geological medium with the agreement of the Minister for Water Protection, but these may be referred to as technical amendments or clarifications. In the long term, our proposal in this regard is to strengthen noise standards and to consider environmental legislation and environmental codification for the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next up is LMP lead speaker, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here.
u2015-11-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2013, the Orbán government had already started to become a state monopoly on meteorological activity, but they withdrew because of the fundamental national outrage. They are now trying to do the same, but on a detour, they would be adopting a legislative amendment that would, on the one hand, make it a state task to collect and provide the meteorological data necessary for environmental and climate protection, flood and inland water protection, forest protection and the preservation of life and property security. On the other hand, it empowers the regulation to lay down detailed rules and the powers of the State to perform its tasks. It is convenient that the aim is once again to create a state meteorological monopoly, just now under the radar, by means of a decree, and we have no reason to believe that Fidesz has abandoned this anachronistic but well adapted plan to the current government philosophy. In the previous draft law - and we are afraid that we will soon see in a government decree - only those previously authorised by the State's meteorological monopoly, the National Meteorological Service, can publish weather data and whose data infrastructure has been validated by the public body. Due to bureaucratic and money-intensive procedures, the operation of a nationwide coverage network of thousands of elements, operated by hundreds of thousands of civil society audiences, on which the weather content providers available on the Internet rely can be eliminated. This detection system and the sharing of free data through social media for local weather anomalies such as the snowstorm of 2013 allow significantly faster and more accurate information than any centralised state system. It is typical that when the Prime Minister visited the disaster management during the snow chaos, the monitors of the operational tribe showed a wind map of ideep.hu, i.e. the disaster counters were also informed by the data of the volunteers. If the state itself wanted to create such a coverage system, it would require a one-off investment of tens of billions, not to mention the free work of nonstop private meteorologists, which will allow the public to receive constantly updated, free meteorological and environmental information in real time. The Government referred to the recommendations of the International Meteorological Organisation, WMO, in the reasons for the eventually laid-down amendment, but WMO specifically supported the two-channel, state and Community communication of information. In 2010, the organisation published a study showing that voluntary sensors can multiply the effectiveness of public meteorological services through the web2. CHAPTER XXI In the 20th century, in the world of community applications, drones and the Internet, meteorology cannot be a state monopoly, nor can the LMP accept or support such an amendment. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-18-26	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. No sign of anyone in writing. However, there are Members asking for a normal word here. First, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz, please.
u2015-11-18-27	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. The bill before us is a law on general rules for protecting the environment and an amendment to it, since it is a law of more than 20 years, and it must be amended on a number of points. In fact, these amendments, which are being discussed by the House, are all of a legal nature, so they do not affect the daily lives of citizens, but they do regulate matters that are important for the performance of the tasks of the local authorities and the state. As the Secretary of State said, these amendments are grouped around three main themes: noise protection, meteorology and the protection of air purity. In the field of noise protection, legislation and its environmental tasks are clearly becoming more transparent and clearer in relation to local authorities, as they are currently defined in several laws scattered and scattered, and now it is actually a legislative unification in this respect. As regards meteorology, the tasks to be performed by the state are defined and clarified by this legislation, and this amendment is not at all about what my fellow Member of the LMP has just spoken about, which he has been scaring me about. Of course, meteorological data will be available to society as a whole. As regards the protection of air purity and noise protection, the division of labour between government bodies is defined and clarified by this legislation. I am asking my fellow Members to support these amendments, in particular those of a legal technical nature. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-18-28	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2015-11-18-29	Thank you very much. I would just like to make a brief comment based on what my fellow Members have said and what Anita Heringes referred to. You do not seem to be able to find out which minister should be in charge and what it is, so one of the proposals would be, by the way, to draw the government's attention to the fact that it would be worth creating an independent environmental wallet; if it is a Ministry of Information, a Propagandaministery, then, I think, there is a question that is so important that there should be one. In fact, it might be worth consulting more green organizations, because maybe they have a little more experience and knowledge than you do. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-30	Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask the author, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, if he wishes to respond. [[Zsolt V. Németh nods.]] Here you go.
u2015-11-18-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the current bill, as many have mentioned, contains technical amendments, which help to make the legislation applicable. I would just like to comment on a few different positions, since Mr Lajos Kepli has pointed out that he has an amendment to the government, for example, but we would still consider this issue important to the electorate, to be decided, and we see that the electorate insists on us. So we can't fulfill this request at the moment. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck raised the possibility of the underlying intention for meteorological data in connection with an earlier experience. Let me mention to the congresswoman that, in recent times, the Meteorological Service has made billions of improvements, so that we have created a very high quality radar network covering the country as a whole. These data are public and we do not want to change this system any longer, all data that are important to citizens for their sense of security or other data of general interest can be provided and will continue to be available. By the way, I do not believe that data can be obtained with private meteorology in excess of today's technical conditions. [[10.20]] Those who are currently providing and seeing them on television are all relying on the data of the National Meteorological Service, and I believe that this will continue to be the case. There's no other intention behind the bill than what I mentioned in the exposé. So our aim is to ensure that the legislation related to meteorology is in one place, the role of the National Meteorological Service and the Hungarian Defence Geoinformation Service involved in the provision of meteorological tasks remains unchanged after the environmental law and the entry into force of the law. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for the support of the law.
u2015-11-18-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The amendment proposals, Honourable Parliament, will be available on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/7397. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Minister of State Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-11-18-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The one in front of you, T/7397. The aim of the proposal is to transform the waste management public service into a sustainable, optimised and solidarity system by amending the Waste Act. The objectives pursued by the measures are as follows. Maintaining the benefits of reducing the cost of electricity. Dispose of as little waste as possible by dumping. Achieve the exploitation targets set by the European Union. The construction of thermal recovery as an end-point and the full operation of the home-going selective waste collection system, which ensures the provision of a territorially optimised public service. Providing the public with a nearly uniform standard of service taking into account local specificities, improving security of supply, removing current losses in the system and ensuring the right of municipal disposal. The basic principle of the solution is the establishment of a single, non-profit public service system with zero functioning. The current public service system does not in itself motivate the exploitation of the economic potential of exploitation and therefore needs to be transformed. In order to achieve this goal, the public waste management task should consist of public and municipal tasks. The municipality will continue to retain its powers and tasks in relation to waste management, i.e. in relation to the selection of the public service provider, where appropriate its operation, the regulation of the local public service. The State shall establish a national plan for the waste management public service, according to which each development shall comply with the plan and shall determine the minimum level of waste management public service in each area, determine the public service charge and determine the service charge to be paid to the local public service body and shall carry out the central coordination tasks, the collection of charges and the management of outstanding amounts. The State shall set up a coordinating organisation to carry out the public tasks of the State, which shall be entrusted with the management and ownership tasks by the Minister responsible for setting the public service fee for waste management. On this basis, a four-sided relationship is established between the resident, the coordinating body acting on behalf of the State, the municipality and local public service providers, in which, on the one hand, a public service contract is concluded between the municipality and the local public service provider and, where appropriate, the conditions for the provision of the local public service. The municipality is obliged to provide for content in the public service contract and in its decree corresponding to the minimum quality of service. On the other hand, the public service provider is required to provide data on the supplied service to the State on the basis of legislation. Third, the State pays a service fee to the local public service provider through the coordinating body, which is based on a basic fee determined on a normative basis and is corrected in accordance with the conditions set out in the information provided by the public service provider, with the adjustments laid down in the legislation. Fourthly, the public service provider collects the waste from the residents. The residents pay the public service fee to the State, i.e. the coordinating body. Under the statutory obligation to pay a fee, the State has the right to charge, collect and collect a reduced public service charge as laid down by law. It is also important to point out that the bill gives local authorities a voluntary opportunity to transfer assets to asset management on a public waste management basis. The holding organisation to be set up shall not change the exercise of ownership rights, except in the form of trust rights, and only on a voluntary basis, in a manner of economic interest. The solution thus adequately ensures the right of self-determination under the Fundamental Law and the fulfilment of obligations arising from Community law. Dear Parliament, In order to ensure that the legislative objectives highlighted by the bill in the field of waste management are achieved as quickly as possible, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of Fidesz is first.
u2015-11-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In recent weeks, Parliament has discussed the amendment of the Environmental Product Fee Act. Even then, many times before this debate, there was a need to review the regulation of waste management and to carry out missing tasks in relation to waste management. It is no wonder that this is necessary, since the appearance of waste is the same age as human civilization, from which an average Hungarian citizen produces more than a kilo per day. The amount of waste produced is estimated to continue to increase if we do not do something, but we do it both at home and at EU level. I do not want to go back too much in the history of EU waste legislation, but I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the targets that Member States have set, including for Hungary, in the 2008 Waste Management Directive. Half of municipal waste should be recycled by 2020. By 2020, for household waste, preparation for reuse and recycling should be increased to a minimum of 50 per cent in weight. A separate collection system for household waste should be set up by 2015. Biodegradable organic matter to be disposed of as part of municipal waste should be reduced to 35% by 1 July 2016 compared to the quantity produced at national level in 1995. By 2020, 70% of non-dangerous construction and demolition waste should be recycled or recycled. By 2016, 45% of the dry batteries should be collected. Achieving the targets is not easy and it is not easy to achieve the goals and achievements mentioned in Mr Secretary of State's exposé. In order to achieve the objectives, it is necessary to make the amendments before us. What are they again? The proposal clarifies the separation of municipal and public powers in the field of waste management public services, which helps to fulfil the recovery obligations imposed by the European Union. [[10.30]] Accurate separation of powers and a more precise coordination will help to encourage more intensive waste recovery. Reforming the domestic waste management system requires concrete steps. These include the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. Amendment of Act, incorporating the necessary provisions and authorisations to establish a comprehensive, uniform coordination of waste management public service; national waste management coordination and management company. the establishment of a new state-owned entity; in addition, the exercise of public waste management tasks, in particular the collection of public service charges and the management of related liabilities, as well as the management of municipal property in relation to waste management, if the municipalities voluntarily invite the holding to manage assets. Furthermore, a national waste management public service plan is necessary to optimise the organisational and territorial structure of the public service and to standardise the quality of the public service. All of this can help our country to ensure a healthier environment for the present and future generations with a country-wide coordinated waste management system, reduce waste, increase recycled waste, achieve the target EU and domestic recovery targets, fully operate the selective collection of waste going to the house, make it a standard waste delivery service close to every point of our country, all in such a way as to preserve the results of the reduction of the costs so far. In conclusion, the aim of the proposal is to set up a holding-based organisation of the domestic waste management public service, the basic principle of which, as Mr State Secretary said, is to establish a single non-profit public service system with zero functioning. I would ask my fellow Members to support the ideas with the support of the proposal. In conclusion, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the European waste reduction week starting next week, which will take place in the last week of November of every year, in which volunteers will implement their own ideas to draw attention to the importance of preventing waste generation, reducing the amount generated, re-use of products and recycling of materials. It is also worth following up on this move, the results of the European waste reduction week. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-18-36	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, head speaker of the MSZP is coming. Here.
u2015-11-18-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The next episode of the Fidesz-KDNP government's waste management soap opera. After yesterday's vote on the previous amendment to the Waste Act, we now have another amendment before us again. They continue to push for the wrong direction, which we have repeatedly called your attention to, that this will create an unsustainable system. They continue to push the direction that waste companies, local governments, civil society organisations, users, the public and everyone are now against, only from your stubbornness will the amendment go on instead of, as I said before, throwing this law out in the trash bin and after discussions, consulting with all competent professionals, talking to the public and consulting the local authorities, creating a waste law that can be maintained in the future. We have heard from both the Secretary of State and the lead speaker of Fidesz several times that the preservation of the benefits of the reduction is one of their primary objectives. It is one of the achievements of the reduction of the cost, which you have already admitted that half of the waste in the winter months is being burned by the population. I think that this is a achievement that I can only congratulate you on, fellow Members. One thing you should notice is that people choose between paying checks, what they turn off first, what they take away anyway, even if I can't pay for it, and what it is, for example, water, I get even if I can't pay the check. At the moment, people stand on this issue, unfortunately, that the garbage charge is what they put back in the line, because they know that if the electric bill or the gas bill, if it is still heated with gas, is not paid, it will be turned off. The problem is that you do not see people's problems on this issue, nor do you see the issue of waste. Now we can see that they are trying to re-regulate this law and separate municipal and state powers in order to fulfil the exploitation obligations imposed by the European Union. According to the amendment, a public company will be set up to carry out public tasks, through which the legislator will ensure that the obligations imposed by the European Union are fulfilled. The selective collection systems set up to meet the EU's obligations are still loss-making today. We have repeatedly drawn your attention to the fact that the impossibility of public service providers, the obligation to pay countless new taxes, contributions and charges has now reached the point that these public service providers want to do their job well, since they have environmentally friendly people in these public services, but at the moment they do not process this collected garbage, but are basically laid down because they are in a position where they are no longer able to do their work as they should. But this is your fault, my fellow Members and Secretary of State, it is your regulation's fault, because it used to be a sustainable, well-functioning system for waste management. On an annual basis, companies lose a value of HUF 40 billion by dumping the benefits of the waste instead of obtaining it, as I said. The financing of the public service has a deficit of HUF 13 billion per year. Please don't be stubborn about this, listen to the words of the profession and the people working in it on this issue, because then we could really create a waste law that would, say, work. Our problem is that we really are now slowly changing this law weekly, we have this law dealt with weekly, and when the opposition wishes to draw your attention to actual errors in the resolution proposal, then the resolution proposal is rejected by the absence of errors in the waste management system, there is nothing to talk about. They do not even allow us to discuss this issue within the walls of Parliament, and let us say that we are making the points that we have written in the proposal for a resolution. Our problem really is that we should be starting a debate day, where, let's say, we could also ask people who know about this area because we talk about it every week, but the solutions are not good, what the Fidesz-KDNP government does to this issue. The fact that the state holding company is now being created is, unfortunately, becoming more visible and outlines what we have been afraid of for a very long time, that we are going to get to the point where a large public service company will be created here, which will be run by the state, he will tell us everything, he will collect the money, einstand the assets from non-profit local government-owned companies, and think that the same legislation will create a sustainable system. If the rules remain that way, it will not become more sustainable, my honourable fellow Members, because, as I said, it is important for the mayors whether or not they take the trash away. They will struggle until the last moment to remove the trash from the public, from their house, even when it is a system of payments at the moment, and although the municipalities no longer have anything to add, they will also put their last drop of energy into it, so that the service can survive and remove the trash from the public's house, because the citizens can ring the bell at any time if they do not do and do not do their job. You are increasingly and increasingly trying to make these nonprofit companies look bad, and you are saying that we need nonprofit companies to make the system zero, but at the moment, this is not a zero pay-out system; at the moment, this is a loss-making system. I really ask you, Mr Secretary of State, with great respect, because I know that you are concerned with this issue, that environmental protection and waste management are important for you, that you sit down with those people, that you listen to the people who work in this profession, the leaders in the local government-owned company who struggle with these problems every day, that they tell you what kind of system they would see sustainable and good in the future, because then we could finally have an amendment that would create a sustainable system. [[10.40]] Or let's just really start creating a new law, let's not undress, let's not play this soap opera, because it's really going to be a joke, that we're going to change the law once a week because you've found a flaw in it again so that you can reshape the law so that you can be good and you can be right. Don't be stubborn, please.
u2015-11-18-38	Thank you. It's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Lajos Kepli. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-39	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You think that there is a solution to all kinds of problems in all areas by creating a large public coordinating body that is trying to remedy the problem, even though the root of the problem in the area of selective waste collection and waste management services is much deeper. Before 2010, before I was elected as a representative, I worked as an environmental trustee for companies with an interest in waste management and had some insight into the waste market. I know that in the period 2008-2009, before the crisis started, secondary raw materials, i.e. plastic, paper or metal waste collected selectively, had a price. It has often been artificially pumped up and very high prices, which have made it economical to extract, sell, recycle these secondary raw materials from the waste. However, this changed after 2009. It was very much down to the floor, and they were struggling to survive by the waste management companies formed from the privatization of former PAC sites, which had previously claimed to have taken over these recyclable waste from different companies. They were in a very difficult situation in the years that followed, perhaps even to this day this waste market has not fully recovered, and obviously, as it was before 2008, it will not, because they were partly derived from artificially pumped economic processes and secondary raw materials prices. However, the government has a great responsibility to try to provide public waste management services to the general public, if not profitable, but at least to make it null and void so that these public service providers do not go bankrupt, and to ensure that the public service does not become extra-largely pregnant for tax-paying citizens. Logically speaking, how can we ensure this if there are no secondary raw materials prices that would allow companies to extract plastic, metal, textiles or other fractions, paper, naturally, from residential waste economically, economically, profitablely and profit-orientedly. Then it's still there that most of them are a thermal recovery fraction. So if recycling in material is not an option, the EU waste hierarchy also believes that thermal recovery is still there before dumping. The fault of these regional waste management facilities and the whole Hungarian legislation at the moment is that it does not really count on thermal recovery, and the technical conditions for this are not properly developed. Waste incineration - in everyday language - is not included in this concept at systemic level. In recent times, you can also hear from the government, the secretary of state and other members of the government that this direction should be moved, and this could indeed help to ensure that thermal recovery in these regional waste management systems is properly exploited, so that the reduction of the costs can be achieved in the longer term, perhaps even more than currently. In addition to the fact that the waste transport service could be kept at a permanently lower price, it may not be possible to call it a renewable - although some people also consider it a renewable energy, I would perhaps not include it - in any case, a more favourable price, even a district heating or electricity production system, could be created. Of course, this is a common practice in Western Europe. For environmental and partly political reasons, this has been boycotted continuously in recent decades, and civil society organisations, the population, have been provided with or misinformed with half-information, which has also led to social pressure on the issue, so that the thermal recovery of waste and the incineration of waste can only be achieved to a limited extent. Of course, we do not say that we should build an incineration plant at the borders of every settlement, and it is only about the thermal disposal of highly selected, completely homogeneous, suitable fractions. But at the moment, I think that the economic conditions and the reduction of the rent, if you will, do so in the long term. A national coordinating body may be set up to take over the duties of collection of fees or backlog management, or even asset management tasks, from the bodies carrying out each municipal municipal waste management service. Although the law says it's voluntary, there is a condition that if you don't hand it over, you can make improvements only if you have some kind of statement from the national body. So it's creating some kind of obstacle to the municipal authorities. In Hungarian the municipalities will be interested in handing over property management rights to the national coordinating body. I'm not sure it'll make the system work. We are hearing a lot of news in the press that these waste management organisations are on the verge of collapse and that the waste management of the population, especially in the area of selective waste collection, is still incomplete and still not perfect. This should also be addressed by the fullization of selective waste collection services going to the house and, this is my canyon, as I have always said before, by extending this to hazardous waste generated in households. This would further reduce the risk of these waste being placed in the landfill or, when it comes to thermal recovery, do not add to the factions to be used thermally. At the moment, whether it is used elements, baking fat, chemicals or anything else that is produced in household sizes, it is most often thrown into household waste, either in the absence of information or other possibility, so it gets into the regional waste management system, where it is either filtered out or not, and ends up in the landfill, which is, of course, not an example to follow. Of course, it has been established that in various shopping malls, nodes, and more busy places, there are collecting vessels where used fluorescent lamps, batteries and batteries can be handed off, or, for example, medicinal products with expired warranty can be returned to pharmacies, but unfortunately, people's environmental awareness is not yet here. Unfortunately, many people do not want to take any steps to take them to different places, but to get rid of them in the simplest way, and at that time I did not even say that many people simply fire them in their own boiler. Especially when it comes to used oil or other combustible materials in the household, and then almost this natural road in the countryside is going into the stove or boiler, increasing local air pollution and the release of dangerous substances into the air. However, people are often unable to do much else, since they do not have normal fuel or fuel, because they do not have the money to do so, and they burn waste under duress. This, of course, is very bad for local urban air quality, and it is clearly forbidden under the law. But if you have to choose between freezing or burning waste, you obviously choose the latter, in a rather inconvenient way. But this can, of course, also be avoided by providing conditions for the population to do so. [[10.50]] Overall, I do not see that this amendment in itself will bring it to Canaan, and these waste management systems will become operational or will serve everyone's satisfaction. And I also do not see that the reduction in the costs will be sustainable permanently, in the long term, or that the outstanding amounts, which are high enough at the moment, because people are not very able to pay the waste price, could be recovered. If people don't have money, it doesn't matter if you're in government treatment or government treatment, it's not gonna get in the register anyway. I think that it should primarily help people's financial situation, but, of course, it is not the subject of this bill, and secondly, it should either make the waste management system null or profitable, which can be ensured by the means I have already mentioned, so that these systems can be maintained in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-40	The lead speaker for the LMP is the next speaker, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. Here.
u2015-11-18-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Once again, this law concerns measures aimed at symptomatic management of certain public services that are impossible due to the government's misplaced policy, such as municipal waste management, chimney sweeping or the collection of non-public household waste water. As its cover name, this Act is Regulation (EC) No 1013/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2008/98 of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives III. It lays down the necessary provisions for the implementation of the Commission Regulation replacing Annex II to this Regulation. The question is, however, why now, since we could have harmonised these standards a long time ago. The answer is easy. They serve as an excuse, while the Fidesz government's bad policy consequences can be put on fire in this robe. So let's look at the salad law in detail. Here's the thing. Public and municipal waste management companies accumulated losses of HUF 15 billion in 2013. Nationalised water providers had a deficit of 5.4 billion. Local government-owned district heating companies needed 42 billion forints of compensation, i.e. central loss finance. In 2014, too, losses were of the same magnitude, and deficit production continues at a similar rate this year. And the chimney sweeps in the seven counties of the country have completed the service because they do not want to pay any further losses imposed on them by the state. The reason is similar everywhere: the Orbán government overloaded the service providers with special taxes and other cost-enhancing measures - energy service providers' special tax, utility tax, supervisory fee, official registration fee, deposit fee, tolling fee - and then forced them to reduce their costs. The cost level could have increased by up to 30-40 percent, while the charges even decreased slightly. After the government also decided that only 50 percent of municipal or state-owned companies could operate in the waste sector, the losses encoded in the system are typically borne by the municipalities. At the level of overtaxation, nearly half of the fees collected by the service providers go to unstoppable state withdrawals and go directly into the state register - who knows what? The total loss of HUF 60 billion in water supply, waste management and district heating is only the tip of the iceberg. The companies concerned also save on development and maintenance to reduce their losses, and sooner or later they will also be charged by taxpayers, or directly, if the budget has to compensate for the costs that the companies have to bear, or indirectly, in the form of a failing service standard. This can already be seen on their skin by the customers of the Green Bridge consortium based on Gödöllő, where waste management has been impossible in the system serving some 300 thousand inhabitants, for the above reasons. There is no money to cover not only the costs, but also the mandatory renovation, so soon taxpayers will be able to buy new compression or sorting machines for hundreds of millions, instead of the old one that has been torn down. But the problem isn't just in Gödöllő's district. Siókom Nonprofit Kft. in the area of Siófok has accumulated a deficit of 150 million, which may force local governments to increase local taxes. Szomhull, the Szombathely Waste Management Public Service Provider Nonprofit Kft. Last year it closed with a loss of 105 million 887 thousand forints, which also had to be paid by the municipality. One of the issues of legislative amendment is waste management. In order to do this, it is important to know that the spring amendment to the 2013 Act on the provision of certain public services, while maintaining the obligation of municipal authorities to restore the waste management public service, provides that temporary benefits by the designated public service provider may be provided until the public service is restored, but for a maximum period of time specified in the implementing government decree. In fact, in the spring amendment, it was said that the government's municipal and waste management policy in many places hopelessly renders municipalities impossible, including to fulfil their waste management obligation, and that disaster protection must therefore designate a public service provider. It is a sad reality that, according to practice, even 9 months or an extension of the transitional service is not sufficient to resolve the situation, therefore, instead of removing the basic causes, the duration of temporary care has been flexibly regulated in a government decree. How much does it really cost us to cut our rent? Compared to this, the aim of the current proposal is to see how the public waste management fee for regular collection vessels will be applied after 1 January 2016 but only foam on the cake. The next issue is the chimney sweep, which, however, should not remain within the framework of this amendment in the near future. Here again, the government's unthinkable, but not less calculated policy can be seen. According to the new fashion, this public interest activity is also transferred to disaster management. Prior to the conclusion of a new public service contract for the chimney sweeping industry, the appointment of temporary benefits could take place for a maximum period of 9 months. The designation would then be extended every 3 months for a maximum period of one year. By contrast, according to the amendment of this Act on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments, the designation of temporary benefits is valid until the conclusion of a new public service contract for the chimney sweeping industry, but for a maximum period specified in the Government's decree. This will be what it will be, even if the chimney sweeping profession is quieter or more radically, but clearly protests against this solution. The next issue is once again an example of the particular cat-and-mouse fight between the EU and Hungary. According to Paragraph 60 (1) of the Waste Management Act, waste oil must be collected separately as far as technically, environmentally and economically feasible. The European Commission, on the other hand, challenged this wording in the context of the procedure for transposing the Waste Framework Directive into Hungarian law and asked the Hungarian authority to amend the provision in view of the need to refer only to technical feasibility. In other words, it is not possible to avoid obligations through other, said excuses. The next item of the amendment concerns the fact that according to the law on the local governments of Hungary, the municipal government is obliged to organise the collection of non-public household waste water, but there is no regulation if the public service in the municipality is temporarily interrupted by the illegal activities of any contracting party or because of the failure of the procedure for selecting the public service provider. [[11.00]] This is the regulatory deficiency that the law seeks to address. Once again, this can be seen as a difficult turnaround for the lives of the population. However, the interruption of this public service carries a health risk. It is the duty of the chief of staff to consider and consider the circumstances. It can also be seen from the above that, while the government is trying to subdue all tasks and acquire them for its support companies, they are most of all damaging to all of us. Can you support that? The LMP thinks it's not. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-18-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to speak to an independent Member. I'll ask the independent congressman if he'd like to speak. It says no. We'll have a two-minute speech. Congressman Zsolt Nitrai has the floor in two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-11-18-43	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. In my two-minute speech, I would like to respond to the statements of the lead speaker of the MSZP. In fact, the amendment of the Waste Act is about establishing a public holding company whose main objective is to preserve the benefits of the reduction of costs, the security of supply - this has never been fully achieved in this sector - and the elimination of losses from the municipal system; the long-term objective is to establish a common quality and sustainable waste management public service system; this is, of course, the focus here on public service. We think that this is a good and right direction, and we should have taken these steps sooner. Congresswoman said that there was no consultation before this draft legislation came before Parliament. I clearly deny this, because there have been several discussions with the local government leaders that I personally participated in. So the statements made by the congresswoman do not cover reality. We say that this system works when there is one governance, one coordination and one asset management. This would, of course, be done in the future by keeping their responsibilities, in particular in the area of regulation and selection of public service providers. Coordination will be provided by the Minister for National Development and, as a result of the adoption of this legislation, a national waste management public service plan will also be necessary. Of course, this is a first step, a station, because in order to achieve the goal that we want to achieve, further legislation will be needed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-18-44	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2015-11-18-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague from Nitra, I think I understand what you're talking about. But here's what I'd like to ask you. This concerns the separation of municipal and state powers in the draft law. I do not wish to draw up public tasks from the issue of waste management, from its proportionality objectives to resource optimisation and much more, but rather to ask, in addition to trying to move forward in the separation of these municipal and state powers, I feel that the problems remain essentially the same. The same will remain the struggle with shortage, the same will be the loss of the profit that can be achieved; here we can talk about laying down and many other things. I do not see the content solutions in this respect with regard to the draft law. My other problem and my problem is, in fact, that we are almost not even closing a law on the issue of waste management, and we are already facing another law between Parliament's walls. You know, it raises a question of how to ensure a normal public service, a public service with security, where legal certainty is, where it is when service providers clearly know when, how and what to meet. So what I want to say is, just like in the case of public procurement, that on the day that we discussed public procurement within the framework of one of the draft laws, in the framework of another draft law, there is the same in relation to waste management. This legislative system, a formula, is unacceptable because it creates uncertainty. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-46	Thank you very much. Not for more than two minutes of luck. We now have regular comments, first a pro-government speaker, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2015-11-18-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit, originally I did not plan to comment on this agenda, but the thoughts of Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP, inspired me to speak in any way. A large part of my fellow Member Zsolt Nyitrai has already done so in his response to the thoughts of the MSZP keynote speech, so I would like to mention some of the points I consider important. As we say, it is a discreet charm when a socialist politician tries to tell us about checks and heavy household burdens, the problems of families in the Parliament on a specific agenda. To quote the congresswoman, I wrote it on my little note. He said the problem is that you - I mean, we - do not see the problem. Dear fellow Member, the problem is not that we do not see the problem. I think the real problem is that you socialists are sitting on the horse in such a way that the poor horse is growing its head on the other side, because the result of eight years of socialist governance was, in fact, nothing else - since you mentioned the retail burden of overhead, cheques and families - than that the highest gas prices and second-highest electricity prices in Europe were paid by Hungarian families in terms of overhead. On the other hand, Fidesz, which does not see the problem, is now the second cheapest gas price in Hungary in the European Union as a result of economic policy and a reduction in the cost of gas. You said slowly so that everyone could understand, but you raised your bills fifteen times. After that, talking about checks and household charges, I think, to say the least, it's facial toaster. In addition, since 2012, electricity, gas and district heating prices have decreased by nearly the quarter overall, and while we are already at waste or waste disposal, it is important to note that the price of other public services has also decreased: water prices, sewage charges, sewerage charges, LPG prices, chimney sweep prices and, among other things, the price of waste on the agenda. By the way, the result of these steps is that today an average Hungarian family can save about HUF 100 to 150 thousand per year against the rather failing period of governance that you have completed. I think it's a huge achievement, in any case. What is clearly the difference between Fidesz-KDNP's policy, governance approach and the Left, the attitude of socialist governments or the thinking of governance - and I think we do not have to argue about this very much - is that while you have constantly built your policies on austerity, tightened up, exploited families, on the other hand, Fidesz is always trying to present and implement steps that can leave a little more money for Hungarian families, a little more room for manoeuvre, life and safety of living. Finally, criticism is obviously very important, even if it is not justified, and it is here in Parliament that we should discuss these issues and discuss them. Criticism is very important, because it helps clarity and clarification of information, but in addition to all these aspects, I think it would be good if we could do this on the ground of factuality, because if we do have problems, we have to try to solve it together here. For our joint successes, for Hungary's success, and for the success of Hungarian families, it would be good if we could rejoice together. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-18-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2015-11-18-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to talk about the difficulties of my own settlement and my constituency with regard to the bill. The situation in which we are is not unique, for many settlements and parts of the country in similar situations are struggling with these problems. I myself live on a farm in Pest County in a village called Csemő, where two thirds of the population live on a farm, and only one third of the village center is a man. There was a great poverty in the area, and at the time of the change of regime, there was a small railway in this area, and people carried the vegetables and fruits they produced into the Cegléd, which was the regional centre. [[11.10]] The railway has lost its meaning, production has ceased, people have become poor, and now we are in a position for these poor people to practically bury household waste in the area. That's the general model. Why is this happening? Because no one comes to the house, no one takes the garbage away from people. I have just looked at it, Mr Secretary, with Google's route planner: the local regional landfill is 13,8 kilometers away from my farm. A poor man won't carry his garbage out there on foot or on a bicycle for 14 kilometers, that's for sure. He's trying to find a solution to the problem. They won't come for your garbage. Sadly, many times, the solution is to bury this waste or fire what can still be fired in the winter months. None of these solutions are forward-looking, XXI. It's a 100th-century solution. What my colleague Lajos Kepli talked about is also a problem which is not solved not only in our country, but also across the country, so that, for example, the public collects baking fat, batteries, objects that are considered to be dangerous waste, and that separate collection of waste goes to the house. This is why the government is reluctant to do so, although EU directives push Hungary in this direction, but the government obviously wants to make the waste supply, waste transport costs cheap, push down these costs, and this is the way that if they went to farms and brought the waste from people through selective waste collection, it would obviously increase the system's operation, and this would not be good for the policy of reducing the costs, and it would, if necessary, push prices up. However, I think it is important to face the fact that the practice that takes place in the countryside simply cannot be maintained. Because the government looks the other way and doesn't deal with this problem, it's still a daily exercise. Several times in our neighborhood, we had to call a police officer from the stolen cable to the gypsies burning down the plastic section because there was heavy black smoke in the area. People who, where appropriate, fired in a similar way and, where appropriate, used plastic parts of the cable and the stolen cable to heat their homes, had to be subject to regulatory action. Selective waste collection is needed everywhere to prevent such cases from occurring. I would also consider it very important to change the practice that we see in our own settlements and that waste is treated in a similar way in other settlements. What's happening? Domestic waste goes into the so-called regional landfill, gets into very large quantities of mixed waste, indiscriminately, and then the landfill staff carries land for this, covering the buried waste with land. Technically, nothing happens here, like burying our own trash, not on farms, if any, but centrally burying the waste. Western European examples already show that sorting waste can create jobs on the ground, where waste can produce energy; waste sorting not only creates jobs, but also protects the environment, as this way it is possible to recycle recyclable waste in a larger proportion. So I am asking the government to change this practice at last, because the European Union is also in favour of these developments. I think that, with due care, a huge step could be taken forward in this area. I'm waiting for the government. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State can take part in Parliament's debate and press a button. I ask you not to say in the closing words why what the opposition thinks is wrong, because this is how it happens regularly, that there is no possibility for us to react at that time, but for Mr State Secretary himself to take part in the debate and discuss this issue, because Parliament is the ground for debate. That's what this is for. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-50	Thank you. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-18-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I was just as my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, did not wish to comment during today's debate, but it is precisely his speech that encourages me to share some points with you. My fellow Member said that clarity is important and it is important to highlight a philosophical difference between the opposition, the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Fidesz government. Yes, my fellow Member, it is important to have clarity, because we need to look at what you have done before 2012 in terms of energy prices, since you have abolished the price compensation system, which, in the previous period, represented an amount of 80 billion dollars, which would have helped small consumers. This was the period when the public utility companies' outstanding accounts doubled, and despite how much they have fallen, they are still higher than in the period before 2012 or 2010, so simply Hungarian consumers could not pay the price that they had to pay because of the loss of price compensation because of you. It is indeed worth pointing out the difference you have mentioned, because there is now a great deal of research to show that, for example, the family tax relief scheme only helps families with a better way, the upper third has taken the success and results of the family tax relief for the whole family. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the three-quarters of this reduction could have been enjoyed by the one-quarter in a better way, for example, while for a small consumer it is a few thousand forints savings, for a larger consumer group this could mean up to tens of thousands of monthly savings. That is why we have been saying that the social philosophy in which you think and implement these programs is unfair, because only the superiors in the better way benefit from it. Obviously, this is important for you as a voting base, but in the meantime, two thirds of families and three quarters of consumers do not really benefit from this. In fact, if you look at the burden that you have imposed on the Hungarian families in addition to the so-called reduction of the rent, I think of the thirty new taxes that have been introduced, the increased VAT - 27 percent VAT - which is extra expenditure in food for them, I think of the transaction tax - we know well that both employees and families receive their payments in bank accounts - what increase there was, but I could also mention the telecommunications tax where they had extra expenses. I would like to finally hear a comparison that, by the way, what you mention is that, in addition to saving 100-150 thousand forints a year, these expenses, which you have introduced over the past period, have been an extra burden for Hungarian families. You may be surprised, too, and life would cost more to the Hungarian families, but I can assure you that, for example, with personal income tax, most families were worse off with tax credits and these extra taxes. That is the real difference between us, my fellow Member, that while you and your party, your government, are helping families and citizens in a better way and better, you have let go of your hand to hundreds of thousands or even millions of Hungarian compatriots, and we find this extremely unfair. Let's take a look at the current situation, as well, as far as the overhead costs are concerned. When this process began, a couple of good friends were formed, whose pockets could be filled with 100-150 billion in profit. I am thinking of the MET case, where you benefit from cheap gas, taking advantage of this situation, not to the Hungarian population, to the families, but to an offshore economic company, such as Viktor Orbán's cable friend, István Garancsi. I could also mention that while the oil price on the world market has halved and gas prices have decreased significantly in both the western and eastern markets, you will not give this benefit to the Hungarian families. In our proposal, prices should be reduced fairly to average consumption, and at last, as you have said, ordinary people, the average families, could be helped to do so. [[11.20]] But this is not such an old news that one of the most important elements of the reduction of the rent, which can be sustainable, is that families save up to 30-40 percent of their properties, apartments, buildings in which they live, could be isolated, the windows could be replaced, the heating system could be upgraded, but this EU money that could be spent on this could not be given to the Hungarian families, but I would like to highlight and give them this amount of money. So, for example, there are three cases where there are hundreds of billions, if we add them up quickly now, we can talk about a thousand billion-dollar item, which they do not want to give to Hungarian families to receive a fair and sustainable reduction in energy prices, but they want to use this amount within their own companies. This is the philosophical difference, because according to our proposals it should be with Hungarian families and Hungarian consumers. I'm asking you to think about it, in case it's not such a bad idea to help people who need it or who need it, and not to help those who are already doing well in the world and in life. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-52	Thank you very much. We will continue the work with a two-minute speech. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik!
u2015-11-18-53	Thank you very much. I was also inspired by Congressman Witzmann. I would like to ask you about the matter, honourable Member, what is going on in Siófok. If the Member has already spoken and has spoken on a waste management matter, he should also inform us whether the serious corruption charges that have now been raised and raised in connection with the former management of Cape Verde are true. This means, inter alia, that he has carried out unauthorized waste management activities [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] the Balaton coast kft., which operated the beaches of the city, among other things, thereby carrying out or suspecting the crime of the order of waste management and other crimes. Of course, the complaint has been made in this case, the current mayor has reviewed the previous documents, and we would very much like to know without prejudicing or condemning anyone in advance what the Member knows, as an individual Member of Parliament in the area, to make these accusations. And the violation of the waste management system is, in particular, a serious crime in the light of the fact that someone here wants to lecture us, opposition representatives, as pro-government representatives, on the legality of waste management. I would very much like the Member to tell us about this in a response. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-18-54	We will continue the work with speeches from the Members who have asked for a normal word. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, Fidesz!
u2015-11-18-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Anika Heringes, is very popular today, because I, too, would like to respond to his speech in connection with several of my fellow Members. I think that's okay, because we're in a debate, and it's good to be able to exchange thoughts. My fellow Member questioned the results of the reduction in the costs, and he justified this by the fact that in winter people are burning half of the waste generated. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Committee on Sustainable Development met last week. This meeting included PM10 and air pollution as one of our topics. The congresswoman was also involved. And there it was said, not by representatives of the government, but by experts, by civilians, that what people burn and why people burn is primarily related to ignorance, not to the size of the prizes, but to 70 percent. And then on our table we had an unrevealed campaign, a functioning campaign launched by the government, this. Heating cleverly! A campaign, and that is exactly what this lack of knowledge is trying to address. So I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to this and ask that this campaign be promoted among the residents. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-56	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2015-11-18-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I was inspired by this issue of overhead, especially since the Commissioner-General is also in the room. So what Member Bertalan Tóth talked about should be taken seriously at some point, because he has some measures for the government that show that they are moving in the direction that we proposed at the time of the reduction of the rent. We fully agree that one of the biggest problems for families in Hungary is that there is not enough income, and if there is not enough income or income for the family, then, as a matter of fact, the expenditure side is very painful for everyone. Therefore, there is a need to reduce the overhead expenditure in some way. Now these expenditures can be reduced in many ways. The government has chosen a path. We have never criticized the goal, and I think that everyone has agreed - there is no politician who disagrees with it - we just said that this could be achieved in a fair way and in a sustainable way, which also takes into account environmental aspects, since we are already dealing with waste management issues here and we have just dealt with environmental protection issues at the previous item on the agenda. We have suggested or said that it is unfair that the more I consume - now simplifying - from energy, the more state aid I receive. That's what Bertalan Tóth was referring to. We said that the rich should not give anything of this reduction, so whoever is heating his swimming pool, for example, should not receive more support than, say, a panel house on 42 square meters in Budapest. That was one of our statements. The second is that there should be a sustainable reduction of the overhead. In the long run, it is already causing problems as to where the government will set the administrative price where appropriate. So it simply seems that these companies, which have dealt with this, are collapsing, or that the municipality must supplement their budgets. How can they do that, of course? In the form of taxes taken from people. So if such a parallel could be drawn, then the reduction of the rent might otherwise be financed by people. So that is why we have said that, on the one hand, if the price of oil is so low, which Bertalan Tóth has talked about many times, it might be worth going on your path, indeed, and giving people more of economic growth. However, in the long term, the environmentally sound solution would be to support the modernisation of heating systems, the closing switch and, where appropriate, the different insulation methods, because, based on estimates from various civil society organisations, savings of between 20 and 40 per cent of costs could be achieved, in the long term, with a one-off investment. So in Hungarian, if the government were able to insulate, replace the convectors, upgrade the heating systems or use renewable energy sources in their own apartments - and whether the family house, bunk house or condominium - would be able to insulate, replace the convectors, upgrade the heating systems or use renewable energy sources in the long term. On the one hand, the release of Hungarian families would be reduced, and I think that is a very important goal. The second is that we can achieve this goal in an environmentally sound way, in such a way that emissions and many things are better developed for Hungary, because we would use energy-saving solutions, and, as they say, in this area, the most prepared colleagues and experts in my field, the energy that has not been consumed, is the greenest energy. So I think that this is important in any way. And the third, which is not closely linked to this, but there is also an economic reason why it is worth starting on this path. If we are going to do this type of reduction, it will also give the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector a serious opportunity, since the use of renewable energy sources in both the openings and heating system modernisation and the green economy can also help to develop and develop specific industries, and it can or could provide a huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary in the long term, in such a way that they can expand capacity, thus increasing the quality of service and the volume of sales. And this is in line with the idea of the current government, the current government, that the small and medium-sized enterprise sector should be helped to access the market and to make the most of traffic, in the best possible capacity and, where appropriate, to become suppliers. [[11.30]] So we think that this is the way in which both waste management and other areas reduce the cost of electricity would move the country forward on the modernisation road, which would be environmentally sound, and this would bring with it that families would also have less money on their current bills. If such a renovation is actually carried out on a given property, it has one last positive result, and this is that the value of the property itself will increase. In English: I think it is difficult to imagine a better solution than this, so we would encourage the government to expand the programme that appears in some places, to add more significant resources, and then we will really take a big step towards making it cheaper in Hungary and to achieve it in a much greener way, thus more environmentally friendly way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-58	Thank you very much. It's time for Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2015-11-18-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I've had him approached several times, I was very popular, thank you very much. I'd respond. I would like to start with my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, as regards family support, although that is not the item on the agenda, but let us also talk about this. Now, if there really is something that the MSZP should be silent about, dear fellow Members, then that is the support of families, because you were the ones who took away the family tax relief at the time, and you stopped it with a pen stroke. In the last four years - he asked me for numbers, I am fortunately looking at them, and I can answer them for you - only in the last four years there have been some HUF 800 billion left in the pockets of Hungarian families through family tax relief. Last year, 900,000 parents validated this discount. If this is as bad as you thought it was - and most certainly you thought it was not only because you were criticizing it now, but it was certainly thought wrong because it had been removed for some reason, so it must have been removed because you thought it was not necessary - then why did 900,000 parents use this option only in Hungary last year? My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, also mentioned that low-income people are excluded because this is the new system. You are not right about that, my honourable fellow Member. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should try to stay on the ground of fact, because this option is also available to low-income people, and there has been a legislative amendment that it can be used from contributions and that it can be deducted from contributions. By the way, he asked for numbers to give me numbers: this leaves some 240 billion forints a year in Hungarian families by using the possibility of using them for low incomes. If it's family support, then let's not keep the baby quiet about what you didn't really talk about. Again, for three years, you have eliminated it, or reduced it by a year, and you have taken away the possibility of children up to the age of three from parents, families, and reduced it to two years. At the moment, 160,000 people are using this - to stay with the numbers here. Innovations - which we did not hear at the time of your administration, rather than even at the level of an idea - like ged extra, further help families; I would not go into the details. I think that was not done by the MSZP government, but by the Fidesz-KDNP government. I could also mention the new baby bond, which was also abolished earlier, and it is once again serving or trying to support the situation of families, but I could also say that in the area of family support, there is an increase in the number of cradle seats. If, by the way, this family policy is so bad, then it is only worth considering why there is an increasing number of marriages in recent years and why more and more children have been born in Hungary in recent years. The best indicator is not what we are saying here in Parliament, but what is otherwise supported by statistics on the part of society. EU funds have also been mentioned, my fellow Member. I remember, in 2010, when we took over the possibility of governance, Fidesz-KDNP took over the possibility of governance, and in terms of drawing EU funds - which amounted to 8000 billion in the previous 2007-2013 cycle - they could not boast much. As I recall, the actual amount of payments was 6-7 percent in April 2010. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: You remember wrong.]] How much was it? [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth and Nándor Gúr intervene.]] Here, my statement is not accurate, I remember it not reaching 10 percent, but by the end of the 2007-2013 cycle it will be possible to secure 100 percent of the resources. I'd like to switch to the Jobbik. I am pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, is also following closely the events on the other side of Lake Balaton in Siófok and on the south coast. Although I didn't address Jobbik, I'm happy to talk to you about it. Jobbik's paper tiger jumps again and tries to bite, but unfortunately, it usually breaks his teeth, I see. In this regard, I would just like to ask Mr Lajos Kepli what the boots are doing on the table, because in recent days the Balaton-parti Kft, owned by the municipality of Siófok, has seen the light of day. I'd like to share some of my thoughts with you. Obviously, for all parliamentary representatives from individual constituencys - obviously this is not true for those on the list - it is an important aspect that they work every day to do their best and conscientiously, and that I myself, who happen to be in the Somogy 4th constituency, can meet and help more than 80,000 voters in their daily problems. I would just like to say quietly that this more than 80 thousand constituency consists of 71 settlements, and obviously the central role of Siófok, registered as the seat of the district, is also evident from this role of seat. However, everyone must admit that the parliamentary representative of the region must pay attention to all settlements as well. Nevertheless, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Member of Parliament does not have the right or the right to influence or interfere with the day-to-day operations of a local government company, a local government or a local government institution. If you know such powers, my honourable fellow Member Kepli, you are a Member of Parliament, I would ask you to show me this law. Since Siófok is neither a mayor nor a municipal representative, and I have never performed any tasks, I do not assume or assume any position in the management of municipal companies, so Balaton-parti Kft. As to how my person works, I think that, given the assumptions that I have made in any way, I may rightly ask the question that I have just referred to you about what the boots are doing on the table. Why are you calling me on a case that I don't have any competence in? Of course, I am also well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that politics is not, in principle, a peaceful genre, especially in Hungary, but I think it is a pathetic and desperate attempt that, in terms of social acceptance, the left at a historic low point and Béla Kovács, who is aware of the most serious corruption scandal in Europe and the service of foreign powers, is now very brightly smiling. And the right-wing MEPs who put their heads on the table and, in many cases, in Siófok, the so-called independent who have been trying to put on the mask of political independence recently, who, by the way, have been able to set up a winning mayor in Siófok with the assembly of Jobbik and MSZP - let's say very quickly that the opposition's great coalition worked very well on Siófok, what was the experimental model of this when MSZP, DK and Jobbik joined together in a very big love, arm and punching each other in the back behind an independent candidate. I see that you are trying to do everything you can to ensure that the various matters of the management of the Government of Siófok are also shared with the elected Member of Parliament, but the fact is that I can ask you once again: on what basis do you try to do this? Recently, the Balaton-parti Kft. has been completed and can be read in front of me. I cannot deal with these findings in substance, because this is not my competence, as I have just said, but fortunately, to carry out such investigations and to draw professional conclusions from them, in Hungary there are competent bodies, the task of these authorities, my honourable fellow Member, the investigation, the detection of such matters, and, as you have said, fortunately, they are taking place in the process of doing so. And I also believe that the Siófok rightly expect - this is my personal opinion if you ask my personal position on this - that they receive a clear, objective and transparent picture of the use of municipal funds from their paid tax forints. [[11.40]] As a private person and as a Member of Parliament in the region, I can only say that this is what I am interested in, that Siófoks will be given a more accurate, objective and truly clear picture of what has happened in the city. With all due respect, I would ask my fellow Member to accept my thoughts and resolutions. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-60	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I have to report to you that you are currently having a general debate on the bill amending the Waste Act. I ask you, not limited to your rights as representatives, respectfully, on the basis of house rules, to express, as far as possible, more exciting views on the amendment of the Waste Act. So now it's a two-minute lap. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik!
u2015-11-18-61	Thank you very much, Mr President, I also understood the warning. The beating of my head into the table just now was a rather modest reaction to what the Member said in his previous speech, and I believe that so many fools have been assembled in a speech here, among the walls of the Parliament, which is why there has been a good example of this in a faction sitting to my left and to the right. First of all, Member, the law governing the status of the Fundamental Law and Members of Parliament does not distinguish between individual and listed representatives in terms of mandate, and I have not seen anywhere that the conscientious representation of the affairs of voters is solely the responsibility of individual Members of Parliament. [[Mihály Witzmann: Is this the Hulks again? Anita Beringes: You talked about it! Mihály Witzmann: I didn't start it! The premier's bell.]] After you told me that you represented 71 settlements and that you should represent 71 settlements in the same way, you asked yourself that I asked you for information about one of the major corruption scandals in Siófok, the largest of the 71 settlements, and I asked you for your position, which, by the way, seems to affect your party very strongly, or at least, as charged. All I asked for was an explanation, and I wanted to know your point of view, but instead, you started a heated explanation, and you kept apologizing. [[Michael Witzmann: You misunderstand me!]] I don't think it's up to you to enlighten him about this. This is a case of misdemeanor treatment, multiple counts of fraud and a violation of the order of waste management and a number of criminal offences, an investigation is under way, and I am not at liberty to take a position on this. Once again, I told you before that I did not want to prejudicate, I just wanted to get information from an individual Member of Parliament. [[Mihály Witzmann: Just suggest!]] because we are talking about the amendment of the Waste Management Act [[Mihály Witzmann: Is this it?]] And I think, since it's also a waste-management crime, maybe it was up to me to ask you about it. I wouldn't answer to the other vegetables you've been talking about. It's just that if you're behind an independent candidate, like Siófok, like Pakson, there's a lot of opposition parties. [[Mihály Witzmann: In Veszprém!]] Who wants to deal with the corruption system [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That doesn't mean coalition, that means your grave defeat, just like, say, 80:20 Pakson did...
u2015-11-18-62	Congressman, two minutes!
u2015-11-18-63	... so it happened in Siofok. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-64	Congressman Nándor Gúr in two minutes, MSZP!
u2015-11-18-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand the president's warnings, which is why I pushed two minutes and not normal. In this two-minute period, I'm gonna try to sort out something that doesn't belong here, and then we'll get back to the waste management stuff. Well, I would like to help my fellow Member, Michael Witzmann. For example, he did not talk about the Homecoming programme, which brought home 11 people from the 600 thousand who fled this country to live their lives. That's just how they did it, how they helped people's lives. I don't even want to agree to how people were deprived of their own money, the order of 3000 billion forints. I could talk about a lot of other things that my fellow Member Witzmann forgot to talk about. But most importantly, if you have waste management, if there is a reduction in the amount of money, then I would like to tell you that you know that if you do not have an adequate amount of money in your pocket - you can talk about a reduction in the amount of money or anything else - you cannot pay even the rate of service that you have reduced, because your salary has decreased even more in terms and in terms of value than, let us say, you have reduced the amount of money - then there is a problem. You know, you don't have to lie about this country on posters. As regards the increase in the minimum wage, everyone already knows, thank God in this country, that, in the current situation, the minimum wage is worth 5 thousand HUF less in people's pockets than in 2010, while you put 32,000 HUF more on the minimum wage, and you are the beneficiaries, not the employees. Anyway, we need to move forward in the things that are in the best interest of the people and not lie to the world. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-18-66	Thank you very much. We will return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-11-18-67	Thank you very much for the floor. I, too, would like to respond to Mihály Witzmann and continue his suggestions, because if you punch in the words of the waste yard, Siófok, and the scandal, then a recording of a recording will be filled with articles. Several articles, a number of articles on this recording have been published, where more people believe, for example, the voice of my fellow Member, and the press are also supposed to find the voice of you and the then Fidesz mayor on this recording of the construction of the Somis selective waste yard. I'm sure it must be very unpleasant for the Fidesz majority to have this audio recording, because here the mayor of the time is supposed to be talking about how your campaign is supposed to be financed by the Public Machine in two weeks' time. Obviously, it is unpleasant when a company that is now not liked appears on such an issue, and it must be unpleasant to look for how campaign funding will be resolved in the future. A Member of Parliament has one task [[Dr. Vas Imre: There are more!]] : if he detects a crime, he'll have to file a complaint. Let's hope this case is closed slowly, and we can see if you've detected a crime, and if there's been a crime and you've detected it, then why didn't you report it yourself? It can also be seen that their popularity in this city has disappeared, that after this recording was released, they lost the elections in Siófok, but quite forcefully, because people have decided that they no longer want to live and work together with you, and that the Siófok did not ask you to lead the city and you represent their interests. And it was my fellow Member who told us to stay on the ground of fact. Well, let's stay on the ground of fact and look at the numbers before and after gas price compensation is taken. Between January 2010 and January 2012, gas prices increased by 20.3 percent for those who did not receive any compensation and gas prices increased by 56 percent for those making the largest compensation. According to the EU average of 27, it was only 2010 and 2011 when Hungary exceeded this average price. My fellow Member! At a time when the global gas prices are down by 50 percent, you are not moving this gas price reduction towards the population, but you are just moving on to your own little puppies and trying to make your own small companies richer and bigger. I think there should be more humility in this regard in my fellow Members, and I think it would have been better if you had not spoken about Siofok on this point. Thank you.
u2015-11-18-68	Thank you very much. Mr. Szilárd Németh, Fidesz, here you go.
u2015-11-18-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In keeping with the waste management law and the reduction of costs, on the ground of reality, and following Nándor Gúr's sentence that people should be helped, not to lie to the world, I would like to state that I continue to think that they are lying, uncredited and cynical, which the representatives of the MSZP are doing in connection with both the reduction of rent and the management of waste here in Parliament for the third hour. [[Anita Beringes: Does it hurt to work?]] I believe that between 2002 and 2010, when they were on the government, they did exactly the exact opposite, as we have now heard from them, for example, about strengthening waste management and reducing the costs. If we can go back to the reduction of the overhead for a moment, the price of gas increased by 206 percent, the electricity price increased by 98 percent between 2002 and 2010 when, in these eight years, cumulative inflation was 58 percent - 58 percent - and the companies that paid this incredible huge profit from the increase in household gas prices and electricity prices - virtually HUF 1060 billion that could easily be taken out of the country - paid the Hungarian people. [[11.50]] And the reason why Hungarian people had to pay for it was because in the universal service market where the government and parliament can make decisions, they can make and enforce laws that can determine the price of electricity, which we have done several times since 1 January 2012, in several steps, they could have applied this, the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-governments, but they did not. In fact, we got to the point where they were forced to kneel before the IMF and beg for a little credit so that the country wouldn't fall for it. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How much is the government debt now?]] Then Prime Minister Bajnai even agreed to repeat the date from 1 April 2010, with effect from 1 April 2010 to terminate the gas price compensation. The elections were on 6 April. So he practically concluded an international treaty that couldn't have been reversed even by a referendum. So about that much about the truth of the socialists. In the eight years 2002-2010, electricity prices and gas prices were increased 15 times in the retail market. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when prices on the electricity market or on the gas market fell sharply from February 2008, nine times the companies were given the opportunity to charge everything, even the fines imposed on the retail gas price, which were sometimes imposed by the comrades because the service companies did not do their job properly. Well, it would also be better to be quiet about waste management. Between 2006 and 2010, as a representative of the Metropolitan Municipality, I have seen several times a year that the powerful Main Brush and the powerful CEO of the Main Brush, who, we know very well, spent 46 years in the office of CEO, from 64 to 2010, kept coming to the General Assembly in order to raise the fee. Look what happened. So that's what the tree was all about. After 2010, the fee for this decreased. After 2010, among other things, the fee for green litter waste bags decreased. After 2010, the program that the Demszkys had for a good party - the Mayors Demszky - the selective waste collection islands - remember how much they had in the city? This was nothing more than a big business, because there was no benefit to the deployment of the selective waste collection islands, than that someone had to manufacture these selective waste collection vessels and create places, I think, and this must have been a very big deal at the time. They've all set out the path that we're dealing with here for a long time, and what this bill would like to answer. But we are the same way by spending EU money. From the European Union, opportunities have come to build landfills by various companies, and the benefits of operating them will then be taken away. And then somebody had to pay for it, and these people were. One of the most complex reduction actions is waste and chimney sweepers, which have already been referred to here. These two were extremely complicated, because at national level, not only could you not see unity, but there were as many places, as many customs, either in price, in trash, or at the time of collection, so everything else. I think that order must be made in this area, and one of the objectives of this law is to ensure that there is consistency, a sustainable reduction of the costs and a real public service, and that this public service can be sprung even with some innovation. Among other things, I think it was a very wrong picture, which was shown to us by the congressman of the farmhouses: if the selective collection of waste on the farmhouses, will they not burn the plastic coating of the stolen cable? I don't get it. I'm completely out of the picture of the connection here. But what we heard from Congresswoman is pretty clear. All research shows that the University of Technology has various researches on this, that the burning of waste, whether in the farmland world or in the countryside in Hungary or in the outer districts of larger cities, is a matter of habit. [[Anita Heringes: Of course, as a child's hunger, isn't it? It's also a matter of habit.]] So they don't burn it because they can't maintain the heat of the apartment, and they need to heat it with a plastic glass or I don't know what. So much people fall off that the heat value of the plastic cup won't be enough to replace any kind of fuel. So this is a matter of consciousness, and I do not think it is worth confusing them with the main issues of waste management, and it is not worth confusing them with the main issues of reducing costs. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we could say that we have other investments... - one more for the waste problem, for example, the waste water treatment plant in Csepel. The waste water treatment plant in Csepel was a large investment, the largest environmental investment in Central Europe, cost HUF 130 billion. This investment took place during the comrades' time, and it was built in such a way that, for example, no one provided for the incineration of sewage sludge, so it was simply left out of the tender. The story could have been applied. Today, sewage sludge must be removed from this area. So, so much for these investments. This is where the Green Bridge was heard. At the Green Bridge, there were practically prestigious investments - building constructions, buying various powerful cars, sorting machines - that were not needed, the price of which was included in the garbage charge, and people had to pay for it, and that is why we had to intervene in this section. We want this policy to be sustainable - and as long as there is a Fidesz government - as long as there is a Fidesz government. And public services can also be sustainable. The bill serves this purpose, by the way. So I'd like to ask you to support me rather than lie the rest of the day. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-18-70	The next speaker was Mr János Volner, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-18-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to respond to Mr Mihály Witzmann myself. Congressman, there is one thing I would like to suggest to you when you talk about Europe's biggest corruption scandal: it is an amount which, by the way, has been legally donated by a certain Béla Kovács, who you are naming here, which currently earns more every month under the laws of different state companies that you support. Once again, you make more money a month, Congressman. I hope the difference falls off, because it was you who were talking about impeccably high wages not so long ago, around 2010. I also think it is important to say that when my fellow Member, Mr Bartos, talks about the fact that the heating is smart! With the implementation of the programme, what progress could be made, and he blames only the ignorance of the people for burning the waste: my fellow Members, Mr Szilárd Németh, I have made it clear that the landfill is 13,8 kilometers away from our farm, as poor people live in our neighborhood as the mice of the church. These people don't even have money for bikes, because if they steal their bike, they walk because there's no other way. We'd have to move his garbage 13,8 kilometers because they don't come out to pick him up. And the wrong way to do that is to burn the waste or feed the waste. Ignorance - a mixture of poverty and incredible vulnerability - does not give birth to these extremely bad solutions, I believe. The solution to this, Congressman, would be to carry out a door-to-door selective collection of waste and to collect waste from these people. Because, again, they don't burn out of ignorance, they're suffering from an incredible poverty. It is also important to say that when we talk about public awareness, Jobbik representatives spend one day a month volunteering, and I myself do volunteer work. For example, we took complete waste, along with all the members of the Jobbik faction, after migrants on the southern border, and I also took garbage from my own locality in the context of social work. [[12.00]] This waste collection would basically be avoided if waste was collected from these people, as would otherwise be desirable in a European way. It is also important to see how the various waste management companies have managed their opportunities and what they have done within the framework. It is worth looking at the fact that two out of nine waste management companies did not have a policy to calculate their cost, and another four companies' regulations contained unsubstantiated items for calculating the cost of waste management. In Hungarian, fellow Members, we are at the point that in the system adapted by Fidesz, the municipalities managed to manage ownership irresponsible companies in such a way that four of the nine companies were not properly calculated, and two of them had no estimate of the cost. In English, it seems that six out of nine companies have practically performed their activities badly. It is amazing that in this way it is possible to own Community-owned companies. When we talk, fellow Members, about how good the state is or how bad it is not, then those who oppose state- or municipal-owned enterprises think just how Fidesz practices take place. In part, these companies are being stolen, and partly the most basic documents and regulations are not being drawn up, and on their part the possession of these companies is taking place with an amazing irresponsible nature. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is also important to say that when Fidesz adopts the Waste Management Act without any legal requirement for companies to draw up business plans at all, fellow Members, it is up to the question of how responsible wealth is managed with the assets of these companies. It is worth looking at the examination of the State Audit Office of Hungary with the title "public service" in focus. They also describe these shortcomings, including the fact that they did not meet virtually the most basic requirements, the ownership of the ownership of the local governments, and the amazing shame that is due to the clear responsibility of the government coalition, since they have transformed the system and they have to bear the consequences. Once again, my fellow Members, if six out of nine companies are found to be flawed by the SAO, it is an incredibly sad certificate. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-18-72	I salute my fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-11-18-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I was inspired by those who spoke before me that in a two-minute comment some of the issues that Mr Witzmann spoke about should be resolved. It is a discreet charm that those who have lost an election in Siófok are teaching us how to win an election, and in Csepel, too, but now put it in parentheses. Perhaps there are better examples within Fidesen who have successfully carried out these campaigns than those who have just spoken. But now, aside from this in the debate, I would like to put the one question in order in these two minutes that Mr Witzmann, you know, is the difference between what you and your attitude on social policy issues, that the MSZP wants to help those in need as a left-wing social democratic party. So you want to give those people more opportunities and help with social policy, whether it's in terms of overhead or waste management, or in terms of any issue, such as family support. The reason we are criticizing the current system is that we may not have been able to put it right, or you didn't want to understand it, because we say that it only helps richer, more prosperous families who have a salary that they can benefit from, where appropriate, various tax credits and tax incentives. We did not say that this should be abolished, but said that this should be complemented by the fact that families who do not have such a high salary can certainly benefit from this assistance, since a smaller salary can be a major problem in the social situation of a family. Therefore, we say that the needy, the fallen, should be supported by those whose lobbying power or voice may not be heard as far as many other social groups. The other is that in the period 2008-2010, I cannot be sure that you will use the argument once. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'll continue with another comment. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-18-74	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2015-11-18-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise you, this is the last time I've asked you to speak in this debate. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, tried to talk about these things in such a calm tone and indeed on the ground of constructive debate. That's what I was trying to do when I said in the context of the family tax reduction that it was extended precisely to those in need, that they could actually use this option from their contributions. I don't think there's any discussion between us. Debate can only be between us, my honourable fellow Member, on why this was not given more emphasis before 2010. But I do not want to abuse anyone's patience, to deal with this issue, only to clarify the results of the election in Siófok because I have addressed it. So, in terms of popularity, I would like to answer Anita Heringes: in Siófok, in the parliamentary elections, the candidate of Fidesz received 6300 votes, the candidate of the left, if I remember correctly, received a vote of around 3500. [[Anita Beringes: That's when the recording came out, isn't it?]] I think it's pretty clear. Fidesz's candidate won seven out of eight single electoral districts in the municipal elections [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: With the help of the amended electoral law.]] , and in the EP elections - sorry, I can't give you urban data here, here I can describe the constituency data - 11 101 was awarded to Fidesz, 1989 by MSZP. I think it's quite significant. And with regard to recordings, if I may, I would also like to answer that, because I know that this is always, always a recurring subject, and perhaps we can take the beginning of this. Well, the Central Detective Attorney General's office [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Péter Polt!]] There was no evidence of a crime, so the case was closed. By the way, three days or two after the recording came out, I filed a charge of defamation and defamation. I have a judicial expert opinion which does not, by the way, exclude or even suggest that this could have happened to the recordings. The third thing. At the District Court in Szombathely, the editor-in-chief of the media service provider publishing it apologized to me for the content of the article they published in a lawsuit against defamation and defamation. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that if, in the future, in the light of the facts mentioned above on this subject, anyone comes forward with such false communications or suggestion, in this case I will take all legal steps against him. Thank you very much. [[Anita Herring: Cheers!]]
u2015-11-18-76	Thank you very much. As Vice-President Hiller, President-in-Office of the Council, has indicated, I would ask my fellow Members to deal first and second of all with the law. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-18-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, continuing the previous line of thought, because I really slipped out of two minutes there, and thank you for your patience. So I wanted to finish the idea that, once again, we do not dispute that this tax credit is important for Hungarian families. We just continue to say that the extension, together with everything that my Fidesz fellow Member has talked about, still fails to properly hit the social groups with the greatest need for state aid or solidarity. That is why we say that this must be changed, that more support should be given to the poor, less support to the rich. There is a significant difference between the position of Fidesz and the MSZP, that is for sure. The other thing that Congressman Németh was talking about. It should be decided in Fidesz that when they used the argument about what happened between 2008 and 2010, because sometimes they talk about the crisis, it was so bad that they had to fix it afterwards, and other times they say that what was a measure to improve the budget balance was unnecessary and why we didn't change it. I wanted to say that we were criticized because gas subsidies were abolished by the government. [[12.10]] This is true, but it is also true that, before 2010, gas was cheaper for those in need because of gas price compensation than is now available to people after the reduction of the costs. Once again, the Hungarian budget had to be balanced in some form in the middle of a very serious financial crisis. It is also a very important sentence, and I think that we can agree with the Fidesz MEPs, at least I want to look at these points, that we need to make the reduction sustainable, that there is only a division of opinions in the way that I see how this reduction will be sustainable. We see it, and we talk to many municipalities and mayors, and they feel that with one hand, the state gives voters, but then, through the municipality, it actually takes back these resources from the people. So in Hungarian, people are being paid the price of this reduction, which we do not think is right or right in any way. This is the case even if it does not please the Fidesz MEPs. The other thing is that I also wanted to refer to what my better fellow Member said that Hungary is not equal to Budapest. So there may be results, and I am willing to accept that the capital has achieved fantastic results - even though there are those who criticize it - but there are many settlements in Hungary where this type of waste management, this kind of selective waste collection you have been talking about, does not work. Not only is garbage not collected, but it is not even possible to reach certain settlements and walk by bus. I think that there really is no reason for people to think about how consciously they can collect waste, and therefore the MSZP faction also welcomes that there will be a awareness-forming campaign on selective waste collection, because there is a need to raise people so to say why this is important and how this can be done. One more thing for this campaign is absolutely certain: the logistical background should be accessible as easily as possible, since such an attitude tends to fail, how it causes extra effort for a person, a family, to participate in such a selective collection of waste, or not to participate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's it.
u2015-11-18-78	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, One more person has now entered the ranks of those who ask for the normal word and those who ask for two minutes. I'll give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes.
u2015-11-18-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm trying to take your intelligence into account when I comment. Therefore, I will only partially deviate from what concerns the Waste Management Act. But I am partly obliged to avoid it, because my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann, when he speaks in line with the issue of tax incentives, forgets to add that he has been governed for the sixth year. They've been steering for the sixth year, and when? - it's a time when it's even possible to talk about it. You know, it is like this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we are meeting with tax-type draft laws these days, and we see what will happen from 1 January 2018. People are not primarily interested in what is today and what will be, say, in 2016. So what I would rather say to my fellow members of the Government is that they should not be doing visions in such a far-reaching future, but that they should address the problems of everyday life and the issue of the near future. Don't worry about things after 18:00, don't bother, don't push. The other part of the story, which represents a return to the waste management law, is actually about my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, pressing on the issues of the real public service. I would like to point out that in many cases today, the designation by disaster management is a public service, if I may say so. Is this the real public service that more than a hundred settlements have hundreds of thousands of people carrying out the public service in connection with the designation of disaster control and authority? If this is the real public service [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think we're in trouble. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-80	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr again, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-11-18-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then you are no longer looking at it in this sense and not in the name of my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann's words, about the waste law itself, about waste management. It has now been said in the House that this story is basically about nothing more than the separation of state and municipal powers. I think I feel that I am right, that this story carries in itself how a - quote - business in which there is still a source available, to put in hands again, to centralize again in the interests of someone else. We have seen this in the past, I do not have to say many examples, more has been said in the House today. I think that the process that, in fact, involves regional coordination, together with the optimization of resources in quotes, in addition to the target area, focus, national targets of waste management, is non-questionable, so that it serves to re-establish the kind of centralization that will satisfy the interests of narrow bersers in the coming period. I think this is not the real public service. The real public service is when, in the interests of the people, actions of their interests are represented, not, as I have just said, the interests of the few, but very much. I do not see the efforts to solve or resolve the problems that exist. Everyone knows there's a huge shortage of public services. Everyone knows that this item, which I am talking about, is worth HUF 10 billion in waste management as well. I think it's 13 billion forints. Everyone also knows that this is a loss of existing profits. You know, those who do this, and perhaps those who can only be considered part of the story from the outside. The non-processing, sorting of waste as much and in quantity as possible, instead of placing it in landfills, is an obvious loss, loss of profits. It is not estimates, but well-founded calculations show that it covers an order of HUF 40 billion. In the previous weeks, Mr State Secretary and I spoke within the framework of another law on the issue of irrecoverable claims. The pro-government politicians say that there is a decrease, a decrease, and I say that the irrecoverable demand is HUF 4 and a half billion according to 2014 data. We'll see what it looks like by the end of the year. There is another major item at the level of existing problems and problems, which has been mentioned again in the previous negotiation, this is revenue from product fees and its redistribution in terms of service providers and distribution to public service providers. The Secretary of State tried to reassure us that this amount, which is roughly close to HUF 70 billion, is all used in the interests of waste management, while I understand that HUF 3 and a half billion is the order of magnitude combined with direct return to public services. I know that the answer to the summary will be - not as you go along, but when you reflect at the end - that, however, they use these money as a domestic source supplement for improvements, along with many others. [[12.20]] I think that if the revenue from the product fee is to be made in this order, it should be reversed in a greater proportion to the public service providers in order to create and strengthen normal operation. And I think that the government and its economic policy should create the resources that would otherwise be available as a complementary domestic part of the funds available to European funds by achieving a quality improvement. And, as I said, I also find it a problem and a problem that, with regard to the real public service mentioned by Szilárd Németh, it is disaster protection that practically carries out the appointments in many cases. According to my memoirs, there have been 108 cases in the past year involving about 200,000 people. I do not think that this is actually a good, genuine public service course to be brought to life or operated, because these forced appointments, where appropriate, have an impact on the quality of the service. The other part of the matter, which I think is important, is the issue of selective collection. I see that, on the basis of consultation with the mayors and many others, I dare say that the background conditions are not as well established as would be necessary for this to work on a good level. It is not random that we are still faced with waste mountains, when over the past decade, a great many illegal landfill sites have been eradicated. I can't bypass and I don't want to bypass the thoughts of Mónika Bartos, which were actually about people being stupid, and so they're basically firing garbage on the basis of their ignorance, if any, with a lot of other things. No. No, unfortunately, I must say, my fellow Member, with a calm spirit, my life experience tells me that, unfortunately, this is not ignorance in the vast majority of cases. There may be some, but far, far, far, far, far, far from the most. It is simply that these people are in such a vulnerable position that if they want to feel warm around them, they will take such action even at their own expense. The price of wood and coal is the priceless category for them. And if there is, as you say, an ignorance problem and a problem, I say, I think that this is not the primary, even in the priority line, it may not be secondary, but if there is one, then, you know, in the education system, you should not start thinking about the mysteries of the education of football sciences, but about precisely the types of things that can produce socially useful returns. Because you could take the initiative towards the Prime Minister in this regard, see if you could get to the finish line and find solutions for what you think you can. Following the change of government in 2010, I observed the development of service charges in terms of public services, as well as in the provision of waste. Do you know what I've been up against? And it's not just me, it's a lot of people who did it. After 2010 the waste service charges thus [[He's showing it to me.]] They rose steeply and steeply in 2011, and from 2012 with such tiny steps, they gave people lollipops in their mouths with a reduction in their overhead, small steps. Then I try to compare, say, these service charges at the height of 2015, compared to 2010, and I don't see how, wow, how good the situation is, how much less this service fee was today, in 2015 than it was in 2010. The kind of overhead cuts that end up bringing out more than they were today, let's say, in 2010, that's not a reduction in my overhead. That's people's deception. The intermediate, large-scale increase in service fees, and then, in small details, the constant return of something is not a result, is a sham. I do not want to use other examples of what they have done with regard to the minimum wage and many others. One more time. You may be able to fool people periodically, but you don't have to lie in their eyes. No! But if there is a way and opportunity, then, yes, in the interests of the people, you must be able to build a better, more effective, more favourable world. This is the responsibility of all current governments. Now it's yours, then after 2018 it'll be someone else's. The point is that if we are talking about cuts in bills or equity or gas and oil prices, we also need to add that if they talk about these matters, they are going to say that today the oil price, the gas price, was less than half of it, than six years ago. Oh, that they only get a fraction of that to those who are supposed to be beneficiaries and still skimming off and bragging about lower costs? Well, world market prices determine the evolution of these processes. However, over 70 percent of consumers are not benefiting from these processes. The beneficiaries are basically the better way, and I don't repeat the words of Attila Mesterházy and others on account of the way, but the better way, you and your friends obviously. I have to say that if waste management, if anything else is a public service, it is really the principle of justice that needs to be helped by those who are more heavily in need. This is not the course you choose. You don't care about dealing with the need, you don't care about helping. You've turned to better people. Everyone who lives their lives in a miserable fate has turned away. In terms of sustainability, I am not detailing what Attila Mesterházy said, I am not detailing it. I must say, however, that all processes which, whether renewable energy sources or anything else, would have to be carried out in connection with insulation, convector exchanges and many others, and that the use of moderate resources should be installed in this context, are not only intended to strengthen businesses. And we should not be faced with the destruction of tens of thousands of businesses in Hungary and the reduction in the number of businesses, but with real employment growth producing tax forints. Not by increasing public employment, not by adding statistical lies to the statistics of Hungarian citizens working abroad, but by real employment expansions producing tax forints. They should move in a direction that strengthens these processes. Then they'd be in the best interest of the people. Last sentence, I have one request. Think of all aspects when it comes to waste management, anything else, public services, to act in the interests of a far-reaching majority of people, especially those in need, and to move towards their basic promises, which is about 1 million new jobs in the economy at the level of taxforint producers. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[12.30]]
u2015-11-18-82	Thank you, Congressman, notary. For two minutes, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély will have the floor.
u2015-11-18-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we can agree that it is very important to raise awareness and introduce environmental awareness. But let me tell you a little bit about my own experience of how selective waste collection works in the countryside at home, proving that everything that works in Budapest cannot work in the countryside. I live in a town of 6,000 people in Kaban, next to us is one of the district centers of Bishop's Lady. Each month we get a plastic bag, where we can selectively collect boxes, plastic dishes. Once a month - I say once a month - and this is very interesting in the summer when milk cans are collected by a family, milk bags or plastic dishes, and since they are transported only once a month, they have to be washed out in front of it. Of course, it's perfectly good to wash it, only then we give it with one hand, and then we take it with the other, because what we saved by trying to collect it selectively, by washing these dishes every day, we basically pour the money into the sink. It doesn't work when it's shipped once a month! They allow for selective collection, but only once a month this garbage is transported. The other: my fellow Member also pointed out that Szilárd Németh said how much the calorific value of plastic cups was. I'm sorry, but people don't fire plastic and all kinds of garbage because they wouldn't know that they have less calorific value than gas or wood, but because they're forced to fire everything they find as waste at home. I think it would be good if a number of the government came to the country in the middle of winter and looked at what made it smog in rural settlements, because it wasn't cars. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-18-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. Minister of State Zsolt V. Németh asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what has been said so far in this debate. In recent hours, in a large-scale debate ranging from child hunger to minimum wage to thermal insulation, if we are looking for a common idea and denominator, it is a philosophical question, namely where the optimal limits of public and municipal tasks are. I, who was also a municipal person, believe that, in any case, because of local knowledge, creativity, local advocacy, peculiarity, optimal plant size, the location of the decision in the case of a very large number of services is indeed the place of the local government. At the same time, we can list a number of examples where this does not work. Mr Lajos Kepli is not only familiar with municipal waste management systems, but I was also a member of the organizer and operational management body of a large, hundreds of settlement systems and associations for years, which was able to present the parody of municipal operation. There are areas where the municipal community is not entrusted with the provision of public services today either. For example, local authorities do not define the optimal area for emergency services. Would their settlement deals create an economic and professional optimism? Definitely not. And that is the case in the field of waste management. I believe that there is a reserve for coordination both in the field of operation and in the area of development. Let's look at the development of the past few years. There are many examples that a waste yard on the outskirts of a regional system is adjacent to another waste yard, because this was the case in the course of their municipal deals, and in some cases prestige investments were made. It is now timely to negotiate this legislation because a new period is beginning, and I am sure that there is a different need for development among municipalities, a system of associations, which covers only a few districts or one and a half counties, and another one that is coordinated nationally. We need to create a system in which we can look beyond local interests. Once again, it is not good or bad, but it is necessary for the municipalities to have such an advocacy. There are also reserves in the field of operation, as the optimal organisation of supply zones is now possible. Although the number of service providers has decreased significantly in recent years, there is an amazing dispersion today, there is a four-town system and there are hundreds of them. They need to be exploited. And I must admit that during this period, these could be particularly unpleasant for service providers. It is not good to be a service manager in these companies today, but it is not our job to focus only on their sensitivity, but on the resident who is using the service itself. Here, however, it must be stated that the list that Anita Heringes made is that everyone protests against today's waste management system, that companies, municipalities, civilians... - but the inhabitants were said a little lower because the residents were not dissatisfied. Today there is no abandoned settlement in Hungary, there is no need for care, so the residents do not notice anything of the inconvenience caused by this transitional period. I am confident that this legislation will end this transitional period. Mónika Bartos spoke about the waste reduction week, a very important element that we may talk little about in relation to the waste hierarchy. It is in our best interest not to increase the amount of waste. We will be unsuccessful if the amount of waste increases in Hungary in proportion to economic growth; otherwise, we are reduced, so we have results in this. I don't believe that because we're not predicting that the amount of waste will increase. And let me protect you, Congresswoman, as regards the fact that a significant part of the incineration of waste is due to a lack of knowledge. People are more sensitive to air pollution caused by transport, for example, than to what they themselves do. The neighbor's avar burning is still classified as equivalent to the nuisance caused by lawn mowing at 1 p.m. on Sunday, although this not only poisons us but also poisons us. Indeed, sometimes the aunts who fire their knitted cardigans in the Sparhelt believe that they are heated with a piece of clothing made of natural material 40 years ago, even though this product was made of PET bottles. Or they burn PVC, it's nice to warm up with him, and in the process, the phosgene that was used as a fighting gas in World War I comes out into the air. And it's not necessarily just the characteristics of the poor. They're counseling each other on the Internet. No one tells me it's everyday Internet users who are reaching out for the solution to burn PET bottles and boxes because of their poverty. It's not like that. There is an incredible lack of knowledge in this area, so we have a job to do. It is now 24 o'clock that opposition representatives are talking about the public service. Well, you should see when the untenable position of the public services has been discussed for the first time, that the end is here, and then it will collapse. This is one of the longest 24 hours of world history! These companies, for which they have spoken, have not kneeled down today. [[12.40]] They don't process public services, they dump waste. No, it's not like that. The deposit contribution makes them want to put down as little as possible, the indicator improves year after year, month after month. In Hungary, less and less are being laid down, more and more use is being made in its material, and the selective collection which I agree with has to be improved, but it has already brought unexpected results. The amount of waste that can be used in the material has not increased by 10-20 percent, much more. "Let us listen to the public services," suggested Congresswoman Anita Heringes. Well, I'm one of those who listens to civil society organisations and public services, we have a regular relationship, and where possible, their proposals will be accepted. I thank Mr Lajos Kepli for his professional contribution and for the fact that Jobbik's faction does not consider thermal recovery to be evil. We see that this represents 9 percent in Hungary, 36 in Austria, and over 50 in Scandinavian countries. We need to have the debate on what to burn. The opinion of the wallet - I stress, the opinion of the wallet - is that after a very strong selectivity, it is doubtful whether it is still possible to extract material from mixed waste, because its use in the material is a problem. Thermal recovery, however, makes the thermal recovery of the residue impossible, so by separate RDF combustion, the mixed waste goes below the burnable limit. This debate must be held and decisions will be taken accordingly by the government. But certainly a significant thermal recovery will appear in the next period. In every country where they were able to produce results in reducing dumping, this element cannot be missed. Many people call it an evolutionary dead end, that waste is selected to the extreme, because it can be technically done, and that we create materials that have no market on the one hand, and that cost much more than thermal recovery on the other. Erzsébet Schmuck's advisor has played the Member's vigilance because she has put an opinion on the previous waste management law in front of her; there is no chimney sweep in this case. Congressman Attila Mesterházy told me about the possibilities of reducing the rent that there are more. Yeah, that's what we do. This is what we do, for example, with the proposal adopted yesterday by the Parliament, which concerns the introduction of 60 and 80 litres of collecting vessels. So not only are we trying to force the public to collect the garbage separately, but we also reward the person who does it, because there will be less mixed waste if someone chooses paper, metal, glass and plastic. Consequently, there is no need for a container as large as was required before the selection. This means an additional reduction in the cost of electricity, however, a cleaner and larger amount of profit will be generated for industry. Congressman Nándor Gúr has made it up, so it gives me the opportunity to say again that the sum collected from the product fee in Hungary serves environmental and nature protection for the last penny. In addition to what we devote to waste recovery, other than what we use to maintain the environmental institutional system, it is also a self-serving force to co-finance EU and domestic investments for the protection of the environment and nature at the level of 2800 billion. Congressman János Volner drew attention to an interesting problem. In recent years, one of the most successful domestic-funded programmes has been the farm programme, whose further possibilities the government is exploring. There are a number of elements that are included in the rural development programme and can be removed from the farm because of parallel funding. But it is worth examining what the Member has pointed out, because we have dealt with the safety of life and wealth of people living on the farm, social care, the road, and there is one element that we believe to be unresolved. As a proposal, we will examine whether this option could provide greater comfort in the field of waste management. The Member also said that the rules on the training of costs were missing from the service providers. For one reason more is the need for greater public attention and coordination. Finally, let me refer to the problems of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who said that it is not a good quality of care that they take the selective once a month. We don't think so. This must therefore be further developed. We believe that the service provider should also approach residential habits and needs. I trust that we can reach the level that the service provider takes all the factions at the same time. There are suggestions for this. Technically, it's possible. So, for example, there is a Hungarian-developed vehicle that is able to transport the various fractions in a car. I'm sure it will take years to wait for this, but the most effective will be if the service providers also meet the expectations of the public. Finally, I thank my fellow Members for their attention and will ask for their support. My colleague, Mr Róbert Zsigó State Secretary, will continue to represent the portfolio. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2015-11-18-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened with great interest to the Secretary of State's words and I am pleased that he responded at this stage of the debate. If you'll allow me and allow me, after a lot of people have told me what's in the countryside, and the former mayor of Csepel has told me how good it is in Budapest, I'd share my own experience on this, because maybe it's just about what's going on in Csepel III. We're in a district with such a miserable fate, and everything else is better. I would like to join in what the Secretary of State said about how many times these bastards are taken away, how many times the waste is collected. Self-critically, I have not experienced this transition, which is due to the legislation in this case. I've seen a steady decline in the public service. I didn't see any increase or relapse in this. I see that selective waste collection needs a lot of improvements. Since 2010, the FKF, a utility company that also collects waste in the capital, has consumed its manyth management. It is certainly interesting to note that Béla Horváth, a former right-wing politician, had to go from the head of the FKF, for example, because even Antal Rogán could envy the organization's uplifting efforts, working with so many consultants. This system is obviously not working and it is not a good system, it is a waterhead, it cannot function effectively. That is why the complaints of the public are ongoing in relation to selective collection. Selective collection was possible in panel apartments before 2013, and before 2010. The number of so-called sacks for this purpose, which have been relocated, has been thinned after 2010 and their emptying has been reduced. [[12.50]] Even in the family - married area, you can see that illegal - apologies, a major problem - is not illegal, but selective bastards, taken away about once every two weeks. This basically means that in the family-married zone and in the panel dwellings, it has practically developed that everyone is stationing their selective waste in such bags, and just when the specific selective collector is full, they are waiting for the next delivery. This is a very good XXI. It's a hundredth-century solution, by the way. My wife can coordinate this system better, frankly, I'm less, but we're also avoiding these bags. At times, this situation is starting to get a little awkward by the end of the week. Of course, this seems funny right now, but what you can actually say is that if that's the case in the capital, let's just say the truth is far away that everything is fine. It's a very big problem to collect oil. This was possible before 2013, and now there are fewer and fewer opportunities. Anyone who runs a household knows precisely that a significant amount of contaminated oil is produced during cooking. To collect this, virtually organized capital opportunities now come little, although there is undoubtedly a company that is doing this anyway. Me too, when I go for gas, I always bring food oil with me, which is a very interesting combination, by the way, creates a bit of surreal situation. Let's hope I don't confuse where to pour. At the same time, however, the question arises - and this has been somewhat affected by the former mayor of Csepel - about how evil it was to set up selective islands in the capital with various EU funds. It would obviously be a long way from talking about dissecting the subject of local government corruption on EU money and the particular love relations between Fidesz mayors. However, it is worth noting now that if we go up to the Main Brush website, we can see that on 25 March 2013 the collection tanks were shipped to Budapest for a selective collection of waste, which is otherwise financed from the KEOP-1.1.1/B/10/11-2011-0002 EU tendering system. In fact, there is nothing else, not what the former mayor of Csepel was talking about, that I do not know who used the EU money here before, and, by the way, most of them were Fidesz mayors, unfortunately, and I do not know what is going on, but it is actually about the fact that this system is being built in the capital with the help of EU funds. I do not want the issue to be over-dimensioned, but we can only admit that it is actually about the EU providing significant resources for the system of selective waste collection, which is spent in a different way before 2013, in one way after 2013. I would support it in an extraordinary way, by the way, if the programme was indeed successful, which would be about the selective collection of waste going to the house. I'm not seeing this right now. When Annex III is amended as follows: in the district, it is necessary to wait several weeks for selective waste to be removed from the family-married zone when everyone in their own apartment or house is circling the bags when they no longer know where to store the various selective waste collected by them, when they have to wait for a month to take the grass, for example, I have to say that there is still room for improvement in this area. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-18-88	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-11-18-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Szilárd Németh State Secretary...
u2015-11-18-90	Németh, but not Szilárd...
u2015-11-18-91	Yes, yes, I apologize, that's right, Szilárd Németh is another fellow Member. So the secretary of state mentioned the whereabouts of the common boundaries of the task of the state and the municipality. He said most of the options were in place. And I'm telling you, there's a lot of barriers in place. I'll give you an example. Look at the question of funding in all matters. With regard to financing, for example, mandatory tasks at the level of municipalities and tasks. In a good sense, the tasks that must be carried out are not financed, so in terms of task financing, whether in terms of personal or real costs, the municipalities are practically struggling. On the other hand, you say that you give discounts to the municipalities. I'll give you some examples. Let us say, in terms of taxation... - and not for the municipalities, but for the citizens concerned. As regards taxation last week, we discussed this week that, as an example, the 7.5 percent of foreign tolls could be deducted from the liabilities to be paid to the municipality. That's a municipal waste of resources. All right, it's good for the carriers, but it's a municipal waste of resources. The state acts as if it were the benevolent one, passing the burden on to the municipalities, and he speaks only in words about how it helps people. He doesn't help it, but the decline in municipal revenues brings it to life. One word, like a hundred, in the end: you don't have to say it, but do it. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-11-18-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to respond to the words of Secretary V Németh with a few thoughts. He strongly confirmed in his speech that the whole problem was the ignorance of the population, the problem of selective waste collection. Let me tell you some data. Unfortunately, I can only read the 2013 table here. One study looked at the most disadvantaged small regions. One table summarises the proportion of unmet needs among households living in income poverty in the most disadvantaged small regions. It states that according to the study, about 1 million people live in these areas, including 200,000 children, of whom 120,000 live in poverty. If we are talking about a reduction in overhead costs, here are the 2009 data, 11 and 13 data on what families do not get in these areas: 38,5 percent were unable to spend properly for food in 2009, 54 percent in 2011 and 48,6 percent in 2013. Rezsire - and I would like to highlight this - could not spend 42.5 percent in 2009, 61.6 percent in 2011 and 65.3 percent in 2013. Do you understand? ! The percentage of those who could not pay the rent normally compared to 2009 rose by 21 percent. 33,6 percent of drug use in 2009, 40.2 percent in 2011 and 46.4 percent in 2013. 21.2 percent in 2009 for transport, 32.7 percent in 2011 and 30.8 percent in 2013. When the Secretary of State says it comes from ignorance that if people fire everything, say PVC, then I think we're not talking about today's reality. In the country, even in my own settlement, the heating is turned off in the winter, because people don't use it, because they use all the other tools today, because they can't pay their gas bills, despite the reduction in the costs. Returning to selective waste collection, I think that the elimination of waste islands has caused quite a lot of damage, especially in rural areas. In central places, these waste islands were formed, and again, I'm just showing off with Kaba, in one part, next to the spa. People got used to knowing at certain times when they were taking the containers, going there by car, bicycle, or on foot, and putting waste in the selective waste bin. [[13.00]] Now it's been terminated. That's why I'm just saying that we're talking about a bath, and right now, in front of the bath in Kaba, there's no way that the local population or even the tourists who created the trash could throw it in. Now they're coming out of the area and throwing it where they can see it. This is not good, because it is the responsibility of both the public and tourists not to litter, it is a fundamental issue, but it is not yet a solution when it comes to eliminating waste islands. Back to my fellow Member, Mr László Kiss, yes, it is not the solution to the selective collection of waste, let us say once a month. We need to build a system where if waste is shipped weekly in the countryside, it should be possible and not involve paying more, because we are always talking about the fact that if waste is transported more often, we will definitely end up paying more for it, but I think we need to develop a construction that can really raise the public's awareness, but we also give him the opportunity to do it every day. You see, it doesn't work to have selective waste shipped once a month, and I'm telling you, it mainly causes this problem in the summer, because we use a lot more water if we wash these boxes, and it's gonna make it harder for you to pay for the water, and I think it's a waste to waste our drinking water to this extent to wash out the waste, and that's pretty much a waste. The other is that in a temperature of 40 degrees, you can't keep these bottles and these bottles in your apartment or in your garden for a month; it's quite satirical, especially in the summer. So, I think that these services need to be improved, and especially in the light of these figures, which I have read - and here I have only read the most disadvantaged regions, and I have not talked about the other regions - so that this does not mean extra burden for the population. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-18-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-11-18-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to comment again if I receive positive confirmations on these issues, which are mentioned, on the go; if not, I will have to talk about a few more things. I left my two-minute comment on the fact that the possibilities were in place, the Secretary of State said, and I went on to say that the limits were even more locally, and I gave an example: this example was the financing of tasks in terms of financing, the compulsory provision of tasks, the size of municipal funding and items related to the cost of personal property, and the specific example was related to the tax law, which we had just discussed in the past week. The fact that the government acts in such a way as to bathe, bathe in the sun, and like to do good, but his actions are about transferring burdens to municipalities, placing commitment constraints on them, and thus - quote - it is good for those carriers, for example, that 7.5 percent of the charges on foreign motorways can be charged to municipal payments. This isn't a game. This isn't a good one. The government, if it wishes to do good for the people through its laws, to create its own financing background, or if it wishes to resolve this through other means, to ensure that the losses in funding are covered by the municipalities, this is the minimum level of correctness. That's not what you do with your laws. But I'll give you another example, so that we don't get caught up in an example like this. For example, again in the days, perhaps yesterday, or the day before yesterday, we discussed the remuneration of local governments, for example, for small-town mayors, but not just for small-town mayors. You have come up with those who have reduced the mayor's salary in a moderate manner to give you the opportunity, which is to give Parliament the opportunity to increase these salaries by 30 percent, but with the municipality's own revenue. Once again, I return to the words of the Secretary of State that they are in place in most of the options. Where? How? The limits you're setting are on the ground, not the possibilities. And if we think about this draft Faramuc law, then their actions, which I think are considered dishonest by themselves, with which the mayors' salaries have been reduced in a proportionate manner, are now being compensated by passing the burden on to the municipality and trying to create tension at the level of the mayor and the municipality it manages. Because if there is no source for the municipalities to carry out other tasks, and even for those that must be dealt with in a compulsory manner, how would the mayor, on the one hand, have the courage, but not this, but, on the other hand, how, on the basis of fair thinking, would the concerned mayor reach for a measure to make his own remuneration the primary issue? So a law will be passed again, and obviously, a far, far, far-reaching majority of mayors would not do so, because it is more important for them to solve the many small problems of their settlement than to increase their wage development by 30% to the expense of the local government's revenue. That's not fair. And then you're talking about the possibilities at the level of the municipalities. I think once again, if it is fair, fair, whether we are talking about public services, waste management, any kind of story that concerns regulations between the state and the municipality in terms of sharing tasks, then this must be done by providing additional financing for the additional task, and if we are to impose obligations on anyone, the means and conditions needed to solve it must also be provided. The other thing I want to talk about is that, according to Secretary of State Zsolt Németh, you are no longer alone, Mrs Mónika Bartos, but there are two of you with Mr. State Secretary who say that, indeed, ignorance is. I do not claim that the lack of knowledge in some sense does not play a role in the fact that in the countryside, in the farm worlds, in many other places, garbage is actually not collected and used professionally, but, indeed, they also burn things that are not allowed, even toxic substances. I'm not saying it, but what I'm saying is that compulsiveness, access to a difficult line, is that it determines the evolution of these processes to a greater extent. But if it is true that ignorance, as you claim, is there, and people are thought to be stupid, then I would suggest once again that on issues of this type, environmental protection, economic issues, money management, in many other aspects of the education system and other information that should be done, rather than teaching football science in the focus. [[13.10]] It's important; it's important to play football, but I think they're well overwritten by these questions. So, if there are two of you, Congresswoman and Secretary of State, then, not alone, but by collecting two and other partners for themselves - let us say, Szilárd Németh, who is the leader of the Resistance struggle - go to convince Viktor Orbán in bouquets and caries and enforce this awareness view. I'm sure it'll be easier now if you can move forward in a positive way. The other thing that may still be important is the question of dumping contributions. The deposit contributions - so that more money is collected by the State - can, in some sense, also trigger coercive, enforcement effects, but I think that it is always important where revenue increases as a result of these enforcement effects go. Are you going back to where you need to go back? In English, does it result in an improvement in the quality of the real public service, or does these money flow elsewhere? I think that it must go back and be used in the direction that Szilárd Németh remembered in his speech that it should serve to improve the real public service, the quality of the real public service. I would like to have a clear confirmation of this in the government's response. And two more thoughts to conclude. I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State has said and confirmed, in line with what Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said, that increasing the quality of service is an important issue, and that this should be done to ensure that, let us say, not once a month, the bags assembled as a result of selective collection, which can mainly create interesting situations during the summer months, are taken away. But again, you've been ruling for the sixth year. After six years of governance, or at that time, they should not have been discussed, but should have been resolved a long time ago. And if there is a reduction in overhead costs, I must also add and confirm the need to look at the increase in the proportion of those who are unable to pay service charges, as well as the reduction in overhead costs, in time. What does that mean? Or it means that the events that you are talking about in terms of the reduction in costs are not true, because before that, prices have been increased and only partial reductions have been made, and as a result today's service charges are higher than they were five or six years ago. Or there's another area where you can talk about reducing the rent, and in the meantime, let's say, with regard to salaries, people get less money. Of course, I'll say it again: on the multitude of lying posters, you can advertise that the minimum wage is rising and the minimum wage is going to rise again, when people take less money into their hands. This is both a barrier and a barrier, a barrier and a limit to the increase in the number and proportion of those who cannot pay the costs that they pay as a service fee, where appropriate, in terms of falling overhead costs. We should change that. We should move in the direction of making sure that the vast majority of people have more than enough money in their hands, so that they can pay the fees resulting from the services they necessarily have to provide without any problems or problems. This is not the way you choose to go. You choose the way that for few, and for many less; for few, much more, and for many less. I'm not going any further. I don't want to talk about what they did years ago, what they called faceless salaries, 2 million forints, what they taxed with a 98 per cent tax burden, and now they scatter salaries of 5 million forints, whether through the financial institutions sector or through other strategic platforms. What I'm trying to say is that you have to give people a salary, a decent living, a salary that they've worked for, not take it away from them. It is not necessary to build a minimum wage system where the government spends HUF 32 000 more on the minimum wage in five years, and he is the beneficiary and not the employee, but one where these extra burdens are forinted to the citizens as income and passed on to people to have the resources to cover the basics of minimum living in their hands, and then they will be able to pay the service fees, and then there will be no problem with the increasing number and proportion of those who suffer from latency. And the last thought is that in terms of waste and waste management, prevention is always better than after-shooting. Think about the extra and ex post costs involved in doing something. For this reason, I think that, both in terms of selective collection, it is necessary to ensure timely and normal delivery. Where normal waste management and shipments are carried out, conditions should be established where this is not done through disaster management. And the end of the story is not to be fished, exploited, or centralized. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in which they see something else, but in the interests of the people, and businesses must not be destroyed. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-96	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-18-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We have had several hours of debate, on the one hand, at the end of a few minutes, and I would like to talk about the multifaceted debate in which many kinds of topics have emerged, and I would like to respond to that, if I may, because I think that the opposition representatives, most of all the socialist Members, have said so many times because they are asking for a reaction to this. On the other hand, I would, of course, also like to talk about the bill, which, in our view, was the least mentioned in this debate. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Several oppositions, to be quite fair, have listed figures for the past period, statistical figures for various topics from 2009 to 2013, and several Members have said that they have spoken about the governance of the last six years and more opposition representatives have spoken about the reduction of the rent. Then I think it is worth putting this issue to the fore here, at the end of the debate, on the governance of the last six years and on the conditions of 2010, because this has often been discussed. [[13.20]] Mr President, Allow me to tell the socialist representatives that they governed the country until 2010, and in 2010 we took over the steering column by mentioning Hungary everywhere with Greece, and the country was on the verge of bankruptcy. We were groaning the burden of a huge IMF loan, making the state, local governments and families vulnerable, as the state and the municipalities, for whom they were now concerned, were indebted, and the families were burdened with foreign exchange loans, and the Hungarian economy was under excessive deficit procedure. This is the situation, very briefly, which is really about the state of the country six years ago. Compared to this, honourable opposition representatives, in the last nearly six years, we have created a situation in which the IMF loan has been repaid prematurely. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: The $3,000 billion private pension fund.]] , Hungary has been exempted from the excessive deficit procedure, the state's debt has decreased, the government's debt has been settled, and foreign exchange loans have ceased in Hungary, compared to what was done by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments between 2002 and 2010, we have introduced the family tax system and we are dealing with job creation - because we think that people should have jobs - we are spending a great deal more on eating children than you do. Since you've talked so much about the reduction of the overhead, yes, unlike your promises, you have raised the price of the gas fifteen times, double your electricity and triple your gas. On the other hand, you have mentioned Mr Szilárd Németh many times - the government, together with the enormous work of Mr Szilárd Németh, has reduced the burden on families and reduced the cost of household rent. Today, according to statistics, a family with an average salary is less than 100,000 forints. Since so much has been said over the last five years, I thought, Mr President, that at the end of the debate a few words should also be said. By the way, on the way back to the debate, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, responded to the speeches made at that stage of the debate, and I would just like to mention two things in this regard. Mr László Kiss spoke about the importance of selective waste collection and the need to move forward in this matter. Yes, Minister of State Zsolt V. Németh said in his reply that we agree with this and that we are doing the same, and that the current bill is also taking steps here to really strengthen the selective collection of waste. Mr Nándor Gúr talked about a lot of things - I do not want to go into this - about the financing of municipalities, about waste management. As former city manager, mayor, I have practical experience in this, but I think that I do not want to waste time on this subject right now. Nándor Gúr literally said not to say, but to do. Honourable Congressman, The bill before us is just about doing what Parliamentary Secretary Zsolt V. Németh said at the beginning of the debate that we will keep the benefits of the reduction of the costs, which this proposal is about to dispose of as little waste as possible, so that the recovery targets set by the European Union are met and that we can ensure a predictable security of supply in this area. Dear House, Mr President, At the end of the general debate on the Waste Act, I am also asking you to support the fact that these objectives, which we talked about at the beginning of the debate and during the debate, can be put into effect as soon as possible. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-18-98	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain energy laws until closure. The government referral is T/7398. a serial number and the information provided by the State Court of Auditors is available on the parliamentary IT network. The briefing material has been received by the faction leaders and may also be taken over by my fellow Members at the Office of Security. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-18-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendments to this bill can primarily be grouped around four main laws. These are the four main laws: the law on nuclear energy, electricity, gas supply and energy efficiency. Since the listed laws are all the subject of energy, it was justified to include the laws in a bill. The objectives and the need to amend the bill before you in each energy field are as follows: the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Amendment of Act VII of 2015 on investment in the maintenance of Paks Nuclear Power Plant capacity and on the amendment of certain related laws The Act contains a proposal for amendment at the legislative level to take over powers, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. From 1 January next year, the administrative procedures and tasks related to radiation protection, currently under the authority of the National Chief Medical Office of the ÁNTSZ and the Ministry of Health, will be transferred to the National Atomic Energy Office, and a single radiation protection authority will be established instead of the former split system. The bill contains additional amendments to the change of powers, such as rules on national personal dosimetric records, provisions on radiation protection experts, rules on radiation protection training and registration, and amendments to missing, found and seized nuclear and other radioactive material. The addition of official tasks related to radiation protection to the National Atomic Energy Office does not entail any transfer of numbers, assets and related resources, and the necessary resources are previously provided by the Government Resolution 1850/2014 on the measures necessary to ensure the availability of material and human resources for the official task of the National Atomic Energy Office. I note that the budget of the metropolitan and county government offices continued to increase, despite the transfer of radiation protection functions, as defined in Act C of 2015 on Hungary's 2016 budget, so the budget of these institutions will increase as of 1 January. The next group of changes is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. can be summarised in the context of a law. Among the proposed amendments, I consider it necessary to highlight, in particular, the establishment of the legislative provisions necessary for the implementation of the Commission Regulation establishing a guideline on capacity allocation and congestion management, with which Hungary fulfils its legal harmonisation obligation. The Commission Regulation regulates market functioning by setting requirements for the day-to-day and intraday markets, the market organisation and short-term capacity calculation, thereby increasing the efficiency of interconnection of European electricity markets, and by defining the tasks of the organised electricity market more clearly and effectively. [[13.30]] In accordance with the Commission's regulation, the responsibilities of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office are extended. The Office will continue to carry out official tasks and obligations related to the EU Regulation, including the adoption of related methodologies, regulations or the suspension or withdrawal of the designation of a market participant carrying out the day-to-day and intraday trade. The powers of the Office to impose sanctions on so-called guaranteed services containing the minimum requirements for certain services will be clarified in both the Electricity and Gas Supply Act. The Office shall, in the event of non-compliance with the guaranteed services, impose a penalty payment obligation on individual users in its administrative decisions. Under the amendment, strengthening the powers has become a goal, which means that the application of the sanction will be enhanced by the amendment in such a way that the service providers are obliged to pay the penalties imposed on them without requiring the users to do so. The amendment therefore ensures that users' interests are protected and that licensees are encouraged to provide high-quality services. I would also like to mention that, in line with the practice of previous years, the pre-price authority, i.e. the Office, intends to regulate the volume of so-called funds managed separately in 2016 as well. These funds include coal restructuring aid, support for the supply of electricity to electricity workers at reduced prices and support for the conversion of related product structures. As a result of the change in the level of funds, the burden on non-resident consumers will be slightly reduced in 2016. I note that these burdens have not affected and will not affect retail consumers in the future since the reduction of the cost. In addition, proposals amending the Electricity Act include a system of accounting for the mandatory take-over of electricity from renewable sources and waste, an amendment to the so-called KÁT system, which also reduces the bureaucratic burden on operators and the operating costs of the system as a whole. From 1 April 2016, the total amount of KÁT energy will be sold in the organised energy market - this is the HUPX energy market - and preparations will be made for the introduction of the HUPX intraday section. In the KÁT system, Mávir currently receives from producers the electricity from renewable energy and waste and sells its timely uniform part - line - to balance sheet managers, usually traders a month in advance, and the time-changing part of it via HUPX every day. The costs of operating the KÁT system not covered by revenue are paid by balance sheet managers and traders in the price of the electricity received, which is approximately HUF 50 per kilowatt. Traders are currently only one month ahead of the price and amount of electricity they need to receive from renewable energy and waste, but they are typically linked to annual contracts with consumers. Traders apply this uncertainty as a risk premium to their consumers, which is not regulated to the extent of this risk premium, otherwise. Following the adoption of the amendment, Mavir will sell all the electricity from renewable energy and waste, both line and variable current, via HUPX, and will only distribute the costs not covered by the sale to traders. In this way, costs can be accurately determined, which traders can clearly indicate to consumers on invoices. This will remove the commercial risk premium and the situation will be transparent for the consumer as well. Therefore, we can talk about simplifying administration and increasing transparency in the context of the amendment. In addition, the amendment proposal also prepares for the introduction of intra-day sales on HUPX. This will also create financial savings in the operation of the system. The reason for the savings is that the sale of HUPX and the time closer to real time - instead of talking about hours - lead to a more accurate estimation of KÁT production, sales can be adjusted to this estimated amount and balancing energy demand can also be reduced. According to preliminary professional estimates, savings of up to HUF 1.5 billion per year can be achieved in the application of the KÁT system. We should also look at the practice in Germany on this issue. The relevant system in Germany has changed in that direction under the Commission's guidance. The mandatory electricity is sold on a stock exchange by the system operator, but the Germans are increasingly switching to premium-type support when the producer sells electricity himself and receives a price supplement called a premium. So the Germans also have a kind of financial allocation. Another main direction of the German legislation is the introduction of tenders to determine the aid for renewable producers, also in line with the Commission's guidelines. On the basis of the guidelines and taking into account this practice, tendering and premium type aid will also have to be introduced in Hungary in the future, at least for new entrants. According to the amendment, the introduction of purely financial allocations is therefore also a step towards the new premium type aid scheme. The third main pillar of the bill is the 2008 XL. amendments affecting the law, based on practical experience in the application of everyday law. The amendments will, on the one hand, manage and clarify the cooperation related to the operation of the trading platform, hopefully better support and strengthen the cooperation obligation between the operator of the trading platform, the transmission system operator and the organised market licensee. Another part of the amendments concerns the procedure related to the withdrawal of universal service providers. This relates specifically to collective direct debit orders, since the collective direct debit orders concluded or established by the former service provider are automatically transferred to the interests of the new service provider, so that, in the case of succession in the beneficiary's person, the performance can also take place in the context of the old direct debit orders even in the case of the new order. On the one hand, this system will reduce bureaucracy, ensure legal certainty for consumers and reduce the administrative burden for users as well as for new entrants. The additional amendment proposal concerning the replacement of the outgoing service provider is the draft additional rule that, for certain reasons, the Office may withdraw the authorisation of the new service provider in relation to the decision of the new service provider. This can be done in the event of a substantial change in circumstances, but it can be adequately ensured that consumers are adequately supplied even in the event of unforeseen changes. The fourth and final pillar of the bill is the 2015 LVII on energy efficiency. Amendment of the Act, which interprets the rules on energy auditing in a uniform manner. As a result of the amendment, companies owned by local governments and government are excluded from large companies subject to energy audits, which would not be considered as large companies by themselves according to their number of employees and revenue. I stress that large companies here continue to be subject to the obligation to carry out energy audits, regardless of whether they are government-owned or local government-owned. [[13.40]] This exemption applies only to companies and entities owned by local governments and governments, which are not large companies, at least 25%. The obligation to carry out energy audits is, in principle, financially burdensome and professionally unjustified for low-level, low-income municipal companies. Finally, in addition to the amendments to these four main laws, the Act on district heating is amended, which contains again consumer protection provisions according to which the fines imposed by the Office against concessions cannot be imposed as a cost-enhancing factor for pricing, thus stating that the licensee cannot pass on the additional costs resulting from its unlawful operation, i.e. the penalty imposed on the consumer, i.e. the customer. In addition to the above, the legislative package contains very absolute legal clarification provisions for the Mining Act, and hopefully these technical clarification provisions will be able to better serve mining activities. Dear Parliament, On this basis, on the basis of what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill amending certain energy laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-18-100	Thank you, Secretary of State Aradski. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The Secretary of State has presented very broad and profoundly the objectives and instruments of this package of laws, the package of laws amending certain energy laws. I would just like to confirm the substance in a few sentences and why the Fidesz Group supports it and why it calls on you to support this legislative package. As the Secretary of State has already said, this aims to amend six laws on this subject in total. XLVIII of 1993 on mining Law No 1 contains minor technical amendments, and I do not think that we need to deal with this in particular. However, the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The purpose of the amendment of Act VII of 2015 on investment in the maintenance of the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and on the amendment of certain laws in this regard is primarily that of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Law No. 28 Under Paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, the establishment of the necessary rules for the application of nuclear energy in order to enforce radiation protection. The aim of the bill is also to review and update the rules on missing, found and seized nuclear and other radioactive materials. With regard to radiation protection competence, it is also necessary to regulate, at legal level, the provisions on the national Dosimetric Register, the rules on radiation protection expert activities, as well as the laws on radiation protection training and registration. The amendment includes the definition of missing, found and seized nuclear and other radioactive materials and makes it clear that the measures following notification of these substances and the illegal possession of these substances will be laid down in a government decree. 18th of 2005 on district heating It is necessary to amend law in order to exclude the inclusion of fines as a penalty in pricing and to ensure that the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities is informed. We have also mentioned a few sentences on this in the previous agenda: the practice between 2002 and 2010, let us say, at the energy office, that practically the fines which the foreign-owned service companies had accumulated could be imposed on Hungarian people. So if they have committed illegal acts or were fined for anti-market behaviour, then this fine could also be charged as a cost, and it was paid to the Hungarian people, which is why, for example, there was more gas, which is why the gas price increase and the electricity price increase had to be granted 15 times in those eight years. The fourth such law, which we are amending, is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Law. The aim of this is to harmonise the Commission Regulation of 24 July 2015 establishing a first electricity operating and trading code and a guideline on capacity allocation and congestion management. The Secretary of State reported this in full, so I wouldn't go into detail. The 2008 XL on gas supply. Laws handle cooperation related to the operation of the trading platform on the basis of practical experience and facilitate the procedure for the withdrawal of the universal service provider's authorisation. In addition, it includes proposals for practical changes to the application of the law. Finally, the 2015 LVII on energy efficiency. The purpose of the amendment of the Act is to facilitate the uniform interpretation of the rules on energy audit: on the basis of the enforcement issues raised in the four months following its entry into force, it will remove undertakings that are considered large companies only because of the influence of the state and the local government, and facilitate the verification of compliance with the energy audit obligation by requiring the compulsory registration of large companies. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said at the beginning, Fidesz clearly supports the amendment of certain energy laws, and it will vote in favour of that, and I would ask you to support the provisions of the legislative package. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-18-102	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For many times now, we are negotiating energy laws and their amendments. In the present case, as has been said, six pieces of legislation will be amended in a so-called salad law. We have also heard what these laws are: the amendment of the laws on mining, nuclear power, district heating, electricity, gas supply and energy efficiency are what we are talking about. The content of the laws on mining and nuclear power has been described in detail by both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, Mr Németh, as well as by the other laws, and I would therefore like to highlight the provisions that may not have been mentioned or that the MSZP fraction has another opinion. In the course of the amendment of the district heating Act, it was mentioned here only to the extent that, in addition to the Minister for Energy Policy, the Minister for Energy should also be informed by the Energy Office, who is the head of the Prime Minister's Office. Here I have repeatedly suggested in the debates that it would be good for the government to decide who is really responsible for the Hungarian energy policy. Here behind the scenes we see the struggles of Miklós Seszták and János Lázár, but the biggest problem is that this is a barrier to the direction of energy policy rather than to its benefit, so this amendment of legislation is actually such a prestigious face that we now have to notify the Prime Minister of various data. It would be good for a ministry to be responsible for this very important national strategy policy. It was also mentioned to amend the Electricity Act. [[13.50]] Among other things, this is the implementation of the Commission regulation establishing a guideline on capacity allocation and congestion management, and it is therefore necessary to amend the Hungarian law. It has been mentioned that the requirements for the day-ahead and intraday markets, the market organisation and the short-term capacity calculation have been made simpler and more transparent, and that intraday trade in the acquired electricity market is expected to take place in the near future. It has been very relevant that certain amounts and pricing items that are now included in electricity bills are changing. Here we talked about the carbon penny, which is growing, from 0.21 HUF/kilowatt hours to 0.25 HUF/kilowatt hours. However, the preferential electricity price support for former electricity workers, called C-tariff, is reduced from 0.13 HUF/kilowattor to 0.07 HUF/kilowattor, i.e. perhaps by half. But there is also a reduction in the so-called teleheat penny, which is reduced from 2.08 forints/kilowattóra to 1.75 forints/kilowattóra. Here, however, there is a question, at least about the teleheat penny, whether it will appear in the accounts, whether it will appear in the pricing. In fact, as a question, what is the reason for this is that this amount can now be reduced. Is it not by chance that district heating service providers have cheaper access to gas as a source of energy because of price reductions in international markets, and now it is no longer necessary to keep this amount so high? Thus, there is a way and opportunity to reduce this, i.e. there is no loss for district heating providers that needs to be compensated for, for example, the reduction in gas prices on the international market. We have also heard about the amendment of the Gas Supply Act, Mr Secretary of State said what provisions it contains. The purpose of the amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act is to facilitate a uniform interpretation of the law's rules on energy audit. In fact, it relieves certain actors of this obligation. We are looking forward to the end of this audit process. Many of the market players were so unhappy about this because the Hungarian government and the state have data, which are important data for each company in the market operation, while the Hungarian state became the owner of a national utility company. I trust that you will not use this data or information as the owner of the State to abuse it against its competitors. Well, on the basis of all these amendments to the law, I would like to put questions to the Secretary of State. I very much hope that at least at the end of the debate, I will have an answer for them. It has been mentioned that the nuclear legislation is intended to amend the law on the maintenance of Paks nuclear power plant capacity, and we have heard the news, as János Lázár acknowledged the fact that the European Commission objects to the selection process of the Paks Nuclear power plant contractor and has, so to speak, halted its procurement of all power plant capacity. I would ask Mr Secretary of State about this, what is the truth and what the Hungarian government is preparing to do, so to speak, to remove this obstacle from the investment. After all, at the time of the negotiation of the proposal for a law on capacity maintenance, our faction also indicated that it would be a problem if the contractor was not selected in open competition, but I also remembered the association of a 1966 - already Németh Szilárd - on the basis of a contract concluded with the Soviet Union in 1966. The other question I have already mentioned is whether a total reduction of 35 cents in the electricity tariff will appear in the accounts and in the prices. I would like to ask you here why, if the reason for this is that due to a decreasing gas price on the international market, district heating providers no longer need such State aid, then why does this reduction in gas prices and the reduction in energy prices on the international market not appear in Hungarian retail prices. Why does the government reserve these funds? Why don't you get it to the Hungarian consumers? My next question is where the new support scheme for renewable energy sources is and when we will be able to discuss it. Boosting the current system does not provide an incentive for new investments. The government has been promising the new KÁT system, the so-called MEDAR system, ever since 2011, but there is no evidence of this. Since 2010, with the exception of the biomass power plant in Pécs, there has been virtually no major renewable power plant, and since 2010, the government has consciously or unintentionally prevented the increased penetration of renewable energy sources in Hungary, has created an uncertain, unpredictable regulatory environment and has also stopped the previous wind-power tenders. The question is, while we are talking about energy and nuclear power, whether the news published in the newspaper is true, although it was referred to here by Secretary of State Lászlóné Németh, and Minister János Lázár referred to one question, but I would still like to ask Mr Secretary of State here whether the government actually wants to stop payments to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, which would be aimed at securing the decommissioning costs of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Although the 2015 Autumn Legislative Programme should have been submitted to the EU III. The necessary changes to the rules in order to eliminate the infringement procedure resulting from the failure of its regulatory package are not seen in this bill. I would like to ask why, and what I have already mentioned here, is that a prime ministerial debate paper has been published in the press, that the government recognises in practice on a number of points that there has been a deliberate violation of EU law, but obviously something needs to be done about it. I would like to ask you, since you are already here, I trust you will also answer whether it is true that you want to spend nearly a thousand billion forints on purchasing state energy companies. This was also apparent from the Prime Minister's debate paper, and the Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office here in Parliament and repeated it at a conference. In fact, my question is whether it would be more appropriate to spend a thousand billion forints on energy and energy efficiency investments. Wouldn't it be more appropriate, for example, to launch a long-term renovation program from this thousand billion forints, which we talked about a lot about in the previous agenda, insulation, window replacement, renovation of building engineering, which could ensure a sustainable price reduction for Hungarian families? And I'm not just thinking about a panel, I'm thinking about family houses, condos. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences had a conference that I had the pleasure of attending. There, scientists and university professors outlined a long-term 40-year project, a program, including state aid, self-reliance, or even some kind of credit facility, which showed that energy consumption could decrease by 30-40 percent for each household if it passed such a renovation program. [[14.00]] However, from a thousand billion forints, whether from public participation, or if the national utility provider fully started its work, some of the savings would be very high, and this would appear directly in the population as savings. It was also said here in the previous debate, and my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, said that the cheapest energy, after all, is the energy that is not consumed. I would like you to answer these questions, Mr State Secretary, whether you share the view of János Lázár that EU support cannot be used to finance a domestic retail energy efficiency programme. I hope that I will get answers to my questions, despite everything, I would like to announce that the Socialist Group does not support the proposal, as the bill does not fully discuss the obligations of harmonisation, does not include incentives for the use of renewable energy sources in Hungary, does not ensure that split prices of oil and gas are enforced in public energy prices. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-104	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-18-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The substance of the bill, the policy measures contained in it, has also been mentioned by all my fellow Members and State Secretary who have spoken before me. Allow me to talk about these partly technical, partly professional, policy changes in substance. We are now amending several laws in a single package of laws. Perhaps what is the smallest or least significant amendment is an amendment to the Mining Act, which contains only one amendment of a legal nature. Perhaps it is one degree more important than that as regards the amendment of the Nuclear Energy Act. Here, in part, the law on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant made it necessary to amend and resolve issues related to radiation protection powers, which direct these powers to the National Atomic Energy Office. There was a need to clarify the provisions on the national Dosimetric Register at the statutory level, and in this context, and in part independently of the provisions on radiation protection expert activity and radiation protection training, its statutory records. These are also administrative and regulatory measures, which, of course, can be supported by us, which help to make these databases more transparent and obvious, and also to address the situation of the national Dosimetric Register. Of course, we have no objection to modernising the regulations on nuclear and other radioactive materials found and seized. I think that the current government and wallet have tasks that concern modernisation and updates that do not substantially alter the government's policy stance. I believe that this is one of these measures. It has already been mentioned that my colleague Bertalan Tóth mentioned - speaking of the Nuclear Power Act - that an interesting question has been raised in the press recently about the fate of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. I, too, look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply on this. Although I know it does not belong closely to this bill, we are talking about energy laws, and the fate of the largest domestic vil-lamosenergy plant, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, may be related to energy laws in this respect. (The chair is occupied by István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament. Loyal Dezso takes over the notary seat.) If the government does indeed waive the payment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, it will obviously freeze the amount of the current amount into the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, as most of it has been transferred from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to this fund, although I know there are other sources. And obviously nuclear safety issues are also mentioned here, how this affects our country's assessment of nuclear safety on the part of international atomic energy organisations. On the other hand, there is a question of how far to go in the fight to reduce the cost of electricity, which obviously has to do with the reduction of costs or the deterioration of the cost of electricity by Brussels, as there must be some way to maintain the electricity price level and a significant part of the cost price in the case of Paks was paid to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. They can carve on this with a few minor modifications, but this is perhaps the most significant one that has now been found, and what the government has come up with, and according to information leaked, Lászlón Németh confirmed it in a press release. We would certainly like an answer to that. With regard to the amendment of the 2005 Teleheat Act: it would perhaps be evident to the public without being incorporated into the law, but this must obviously also be legally settled so that the service provider cannot pass on the penalty imposed on it as a burden on the consumer. I think it's a pretty obvious thing, but it doesn't seem to be that at the moment in our country, so it's also necessary to record it at the legal level. It is one thing that a fine imposed by the Energy Authority cannot be indicated as a factor of price formation when calculating the consumer price, but another question is whether it is able to enforce it in another way, using loopholes, or whether it should pay it entirely from its own profits and benefits. In any case, this is a positive step to ensure that consumers do not have to take the fine they might impose or pay at the cost of district heating. Speaking of district heating, we received the State Audit Office's report on the audit experience of district heating companies. It has been stated here in relation to district heat prices that there have been quite large differences in the calculation of charges, obviously partly due to the fact that a fine or other factor has been included in the current law as a price-setting factor. In the period 2008-14, the largest difference was still 100 percent, which dropped to 63 percent between district heating companies by the end of the period. There were errors in pricing, and the legislator is also trying to remedy this. Although this is now the case with only one error in this bill, namely that the fine cannot be included as a price-setting factor, there are obviously other types of errors which have been mentioned in this Court's investigation. But to do so, a detailed study, which is also available on the Internet, needs to be studied. As regards the outstanding amounts, I would like to add one sentence to the Court's report. It is certainly revealing that the debt stock increased between 2008 and 2014, and there has also been an increase in outstanding amounts, including an increase in long-term non-recoverable claims and back-payments. According to the investigation, this is due to insufficient management of backlogs, i.e. inadequate treatment of overdue claims. [[14.10]] If the government does indeed waive the payment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, it will obviously freeze the amount transferred to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund at the current amount, as most of the funds were transferred from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to this fund, although I know there are other sources. And obviously nuclear safety issues are also mentioned here, how this affects our country's assessment of nuclear safety on the part of international atomic energy organisations. On the other hand, there is a question of how far to go in the fight to reduce the cost of electricity, which obviously has to do with the reduction of costs or the deterioration of the cost of electricity by Brussels, as there must be some way to maintain the electricity price level and a significant part of the cost price in the case of Paks was paid to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. They can carve on this with a few minor modifications, but this is perhaps the most significant one that has now been found, and what the government has come up with, and according to information leaked, Lászlón Németh confirmed it in a press release. We would certainly like an answer to that. With regard to the amendment of the 2005 Teleheat Act: it would perhaps be evident to the public without being incorporated into the law, but this must obviously also be legally settled so that the service provider cannot pass on the penalty imposed on it as a burden on the consumer. I think it's a pretty obvious thing, but it doesn't seem to be that at the moment in our country, so it's also necessary to record it at the legal level. It is one thing that a fine imposed by the Energy Authority cannot be indicated as a factor of price formation when calculating the consumer price, but another question is whether it is able to enforce it in another way, using loopholes, or whether it should pay it entirely from its own profits and benefits. In any case, this is a positive step to ensure that consumers do not have to take the fine they might impose or pay at the cost of district heating. Speaking of district heating, we received the State Audit Office's report on the audit experience of district heating companies. It has been stated here in relation to district heat prices that there have been quite large differences in the calculation of charges, obviously partly due to the fact that a fine or other factor has been included in the current law as a price-setting factor. In the period 2008-14, the largest difference was still 100 percent, which dropped to 63 percent between district heating companies by the end of the period. There were errors in pricing, and the legislator is also trying to remedy this. Although this is now the case with only one error in this bill, namely that the fine cannot be included as a price-setting factor, there are obviously other types of errors which have been mentioned in this Court's investigation. But to do so, a detailed study, which is also available on the Internet, needs to be studied. As regards the outstanding amounts, I would like to add one sentence to the Court's report. It is certainly revealing that the debt stock increased between 2008 and 2014, and there has also been an increase in outstanding amounts, including an increase in long-term non-recoverable claims and back-payments. According to the investigation, this is due to insufficient management of backlogs, i.e. inadequate treatment of overdue claims. (14.10) But the fact that the stock of these people has increased suggests that fewer and fewer people in Hungary can pay their district heating and overhead in time, taking into account the period between 2008 and 14. It would be interesting to see how this has changed in the period after the reduction of the rent. This report does not specifically state whether it has improved or stagnated, or, perhaps, don't give it to me, God, it is rotten. In any case, the problem still exists, so whether in terms of district heating or other charges, people cannot meet these obligations in time. I would like to move on to the amendment of the Electricity Act, which is a technical amendment facilitating harmonisation within the European Union. This is because of the transposition of the regulation governing the functioning of the market, and it is also likely to be refined, re-tunings and updates. In this case, it now contains requirements for markets, market organisation and short-term capacity calculation the following day and within the day. Moreover, the purpose of the Electricity Act is to simplify and clarify the accounting system related to KÁT, the compulsory reception aid and to prepare for the opportunities for intraday trade expected to be introduced in the organised electricity market in the near future. As the Secretary of State said, the physical allocation will cease, so the total amount of KÁT energy will be sold via HUPX. We hope that, as stated in the explanatory statement, we hope that in reality it will, in fact, increase the leeway of traders and consumers in the compilation of their portfolio, as this measure allows for ex post accounting. The KÁT premium calculated and published by Mavir should be directly passed on to consumers and thus, in relation to the above, there will be no need to include the risk premium in the prices, which may make the supply cheaper. We very much hope that this will indeed be the case compared to expectations. It also includes a detail concerning the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office, confirming its powers to impose an automatic penalty payment obligation on service providers or distributors in the event of non-compliance with guaranteed services. In the context of the Gas Supply Act, there has already been practically all the arguments that we can make here. It is also mainly technical amendments. I would rather say a few words about the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act, as energy efficiency investments also have a topicality: a press report recently revealed that energy efficiency investments will be possible in the near future, and in the future only in public buildings in Hungary will be eligible for non-refundable funding. Here, it is estimated that the owners of the domestic housing stock will lose hundreds of billion-dollar resources, as well as the Hungarian people who wanted to use this non-refundable support to modernise their homes energyally and make them more efficient. We have said many times here, in Parliament's walls, that the condition for a really long-term, long-term reduction would be that these energy modernisations, energy efficiency investments could be made as much as possible, and that money would remain in people's pockets... - so it would remain in people's pockets without the need to generate that energy as a result of these energy investments. Unproduced energy is the cheapest energy - this cliché has been said here perhaps several times. If the homes, especially the family married, former built, not so modern, so-called Kádár cubes, which might be the largest energy eaters in Hungary, were upgraded, then significant energy savings would also be achieved. At the moment, it seems that this will at least not be possible in the form of grants. We hope that the government's position on this will change in the future, as this option exists in the case of EU funds, which has been redirected to the public buildings on the basis of a domestic government decision, which is, of course, also a necessary thing, but - once again - the reduction of the rent in Hungarian people's pockets can keep money in the long term if combined with energy efficiency investments that provide them with this in the long term. The amendments must also be fundamentally supported by the Group of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, although we do not consider this to be a complete solution, but obviously the purpose of this bill is not, but to introduce technical amendments and updates to the legislative proposals currently in force. So in the final vote, we can ensure our support for the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, there will be no opposition by an independent Member. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, who has made a written statement of her intention to speak. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-11-18-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Since we have not yet had an answer, I would like to talk to you a little more about my concern, this is the question of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. There was news of the freezing of this fund because there was a study that Mrs. Lászlón Németh, your former minister, asked to be prepared. In this discussion paper, which has been prepared according to press reports, and which landed on the Prime Minister's table, it is that the Central Nuclear Financial Fund would be frozen, by paying every year since 98, both the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the budget for this fund, precisely to make our future sound, and precisely because of the main purpose of the fund's creation, so that the financing of the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuels and the decommissioning of nuclear installations will not be for future generations. This discussion was about the fact that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant would no longer pay the money into the Nuclear Fund, and this money would no longer come together here. There were 324 million forints in this fund, wasn't there? In 17 years, the money was collected, and so far it was only you who stopped the payments for two years when you were on the government. We really have one request that this thing has worked so well so far, the money has come together so well in this fund, just so that we do not live our future ahead, put the discussion paper in place, in which this idea came up, this discussion paper is thrown into the trash, because in our opinion, we cannot live up to our future if responsible decision makers decided in 98 to raise the money for this. Calm me down, Secretary of State, this idea was rejected a long time ago. Thank you.
u2015-11-18-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-18-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a critical comment on two issues, since Bertalan Tóth spoke in detail about the whole law and the political position on it. There are two issues that I would recommend to the government for consideration if the government were to make progress in this area, which is important and can be good for energy or environmental laws, and even related to the above mentioned reduction. [[14.20]] What is the first important issue for me is the government's intentions regarding the new support system for renewable energy sources, when a new strategy, a new action plan, a new regulatory environment will be adopted. After all, what we see is that what is happening now is actually a solution to the current system, but in no way is an incentive for new investments; it does not inspire companies to invest in this area, and practically no more renewable power plant has been built since 2010, with the exception of the biomass power plant in Pécs. There are experts who say that since 2010 the government has hindered greater expansion of the use of renewable energy sources in Hungary, precisely by creating such an unpredictable regulatory environment, and has previously stopped the wind plant tender. I consider this to be important, not only from an environmental point of view, that renewable energies and green energies are getting more and more space in this so-called energy mix, and that is why we have previously criticised the lack of impact assessments in relation to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, because we said that we should look at the energy mix that best serves Hungary's economic and consumer security interests in the next 50 to 100 years. After all, if we have spent so much money, thousands of billions, this will, of course, crowd out the support and development of green energy or green energy investments. On the one hand, it is important from an energy point of view to what is happening in this area, but on the other hand, by looking at the issue from the green economy side, we believe that it has an economic policy and employment policy aspect, because there are numerous studies, both domestic and foreign, that the employment policy potential of the green economy is still untapped in Hungary. We would therefore be inspired to ask the government to consider that investment in the green economy, investment from both the financial and the support side, and the more stimulating wording of the legislative environment, can be of particular importance not only for the environment, but also for the Hungarian economy's perspective and employment policy, new jobs and the creation of new jobs, whether in agriculture or in other areas. The other point, which I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State, was also published in the press that the Prime Minister's Office has prepared a discussion paper, which was also available in the media, and it is said, if I remember correctly, that it intends to spend about HUF 1000 billion on the state's so-called energy company purchases, and if I understood Bertalan Tóth's words correctly, this was broadly confirmed by a secretary of state on an oral question. I would also like to ask you that this HUF 1000 billion is an extremely large sum, even if it is financed from an MFB source, but this is a large number, which could be used to launch a four to six year energy development programme for Hungarian families. And this would also have an economic stimulating aspect, because if Hungarian families could spend this amount on insulation, heating system modernisation, window renovation and replacement for the development of their own apartments, designed annually, the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector could build concrete industries on this. And if this means a predictable cycle of 4-6 years for small and medium-sized enterprises, then they could invest in this from the bank lending required to do so on the logic of capacity expansion or development. Not to mention that they could also create a lot of new jobs by typically doing such modernisation work not by large multinational companies, but from insulation to the replacement of heating systems to the replacement of windows and windows, this can be a typically defined activity for small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, for Hungarian entrepreneurs, it is unlikely that there would be much interest in this from abroad, from the point of view of foreign-owned companies. And precisely because, as Bertalan Tóth said, the best energy, the greenest energy from the point of view of unused energy and energy efficiency, could be a priority objective, since it would be a good way to reduce the use of the quantity of energy for the various energy sources, and that would be a major environmental saving for Hungarian families, but also from the cost side. For this reason, this would indeed allow a sustainable, long-term sustainable reduction of the rent; adding that not only the costs of these families would be reduced, but also the value of the properties and houses that will be renovated in this respect would indeed be increased. This is also important because it will not only be sustainable to reduce costs, but it will also divide opportunities among people a little bit more fairly, because, according to our proposal, this should be a very small-scale tender, which should be paid to owners, homeowners, and should not limit this renovation work only to panel apartments, but should also open up this possibility for all homes in Hungary. What would also make it possible for those who do not heat gas to be in a more disadvantaged position in the reduction of the costs, but this option would give everyone an equally fair opportunity to reduce their different types of costs. So these two comments would be linked both to green energy, renewable energy sources within energy. So if the government were to invest in the green economy, it would also bring employment policy benefits, economic growth benefits, or if such a 4-6 year programme of the order of 1000 billion, would also have the same effects, spin economic growth, create new jobs and strengthen new industries in Hungary. In addition, they could achieve this in the entire Hungarian entrepreneurial spectrum. Thank you very much, Mr President, that is all I wanted to say.
u2015-11-18-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, who wishes to respond on behalf of the rapporteurs to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-18-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the participation of the Members and the Member State in the debate. I must say that the ringing of this debate was positive for my wallet, because there was no debate on the substance of the proposal. Other reasons led to the fact that the MSZP faction did not grant its support. I thank the Jobbik faction for supporting the proposed bill, just like Fidesz. During the debate, there were numerous branches of this bill, the main thing to say is that, in itself, what we have put forward is technically justified, there are no legal, substantive and strategic objections to it, but, of course, energy is a very sensitive and very diverse area, which has many branches in which certain processes have started. Certain processes do not go in the direction the opposition thinks, because they think that there are the directions they think are the right direction, and we think that what we practice in energy policy is the right direction, and we think it is the right direction, but that is the right way. It is important that the Hungarian energy strategy and the Hungarian energy policy comply with the principles of sustainability, security of supply and affordability. [[14.30]] I see that, in view of the reduction in overhead costs and the changes that follow from the proposal, this direction is also ensured on the basis of the energy policy that is in force today. As I mentioned in my exposem, there are measures that, for example, make the applicability of renewable energies more and more competitive, and all of this in such a way that there is no need to apply a system of State aid to people's wallets that would, say, take away the benefits, results of the reduction of the costs and stop the process that has taken place, for example, in the number of outstanding and in the number of late consumers over the last three years. I'll just give you a few figures: on 31 May 2012, in the period before the reduction of the rent, the total amount of HUF 1.4 billion was outstanding, which in May 2015 didn't reach HUF 1 billion. However, the same could apply to the consumers concerned, with over 3 million consumers affected by the backlog at the end of May 2012, today it affects 1.8 million people, so much less. This also shows that the debate on whether there really is more money left in people through the reduction of the rent has, in any case, been clearly demonstrated on the basis of data. In answer to the questions, I must be honest with you that I am making some clarification to Mr Bertalan Tóth. This bill does not amend the project law on the maintenance of Paks Nuclear Power Plant capacity, but the Nuclear Power Act by setting up uniform radiation protection tasks. And what I have just said is that there is a great debate - and Mr Mesterházy also mentioned this, Mr Bertalan Tóth - about what is going on with energy production from renewable sources. I see the future as very encouraging, and I also see the current situation as encouraging, because if we look at our 2020 EU target, which means that 14.65 percent of the energy produced in Hungary must come from renewable sources, we are in good shape with time-related delivery in this part. I am sure that the investments, the operations that we are making for the aforementioned conversion of the KÁT and the competitiveness of energy from renewable sources will ensure this share, and we will fulfil our commitment in 2020. Secondly, how is the increase in energy efficiency in Hungary? With all due respect, I can also say that we are doing well on a pro rata basis, although it is natural that we cannot be content, we cannot sit back. However, it has to be said that the demand for energy in Hungary in recent years, i.e. the amount of energy used in the country, has decreased significantly, for example by nearly 30 percent compared to 2010. This also shows that energy efficiency investments, which not only affect the population, but also play a very big role in this Hungarian industry, have performed well, so energy efficiency investments have led to a significant reduction in our energy dependency from the point of view of the energy demand. I believe that this shows that the direction that the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, follows in energy policy, brings such results, we can be proud of such results, and if we are not proud, but we can be encouraged to ensure that the aim is to reduce energy consumption in Hungary, the lower energy consumption in Hungary, this can be achieved, so that people will actually be able to use the energy savings income for consumption. There has been a question about what is the situation with the support of investments in energy efficiency towards the population. I note only in parentheses that during the socialist governments, this was not such a central issue as to ensure the support of family homes, they only excelled in panel programs, and there was much debate, and many friendly companies were enriched by it. However, I have to add that it is undoubtedly not possible to provide direct support to individuals in the current EU support system, but regardless of all this, the Hungarian government is determined to provide some HUF 100 billion in reimbursable support for this purpose and will also provide an appropriate zero percentage of interest, i.e. interest-free credit facility, according to which private buildings, i.e. privately owned houses, are also guaranteed. But I also have to mention that about 80 percent of the home heat program was used by private individuals for heating and building energy upgrades. So this program, which is warm at home, and the previous similar projects, is involved in the noticeable reduction of energy consumption on the residential side in Hungary as well. As far as KNPA is concerned, I can say that this is a discussion paper, a non-governmental position; then we will argue when this discussion material is qualified, and perhaps there will be a government decision. I am ready for this debate at a later stage, but I think that the negotiation of this is very premature at the moment. I believe that these issues, which have been raised at the moment during the debate, I have endeavoured, if not in so much detail, as can otherwise be discussed openly and honestly in other professional forums, but I have tried to respond in a comprehensive manner. One more thing: I forgot to mention or did not take into account Mr Tóth, on the development of these justified costs, is that it has not affected the price to be paid by universal service users, i.e. retail consumers. Therefore, the main reason for the reduction is, for example, the development of the justified costs examined by the Office for district heating producers, i.e. the reduction of justified costs, but this does not constitute State aid, because this is only a price control element. I believe, and I hope, that the Socialist Members will also consider this proposal on a professional basis, and they too will be able to support the adoption of the bill as a law. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your improved amendments, if any. Thank you.
u2015-11-18-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to road and rail transport and consumer protection will follow until closure. The government referral is T/7401. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-18-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you sets out a number of rules that make life easier for citizens in everyday conditions. The proposal contains simplification rules for certain official procedures related to the operation of road transport. These are partly linked to changes in certain EU regulations, to tighten the conditions for notification of infringements to clients and to simplify the acquisition of certain professional qualifications requirements. [[14.40]] By amending the rules of the toll system, our aim is to achieve effective and effective sanctions, which encourage road users to follow the law, while at the same time providing customer-friendly and equal treatment for both domestic and foreign users. The proposal also sets out amendments to address consumer complaints related to growing online purchases in trade. Out of the proposals for amendments, the main points are: The bill amends the calculation of the time limit for payment of the surcharge in the event of irregular parking. It shall count the beginning of the deadline from the date of delivery of the official postal notification. The amendment creates a more predictable situation for citizens, helping to demonstrate compliance with the law, and making the enforcement of remedies easier and easier. The proposal establishes basic rules for the market surveillance system for the technical conformity of road vehicles. The system's procedural basis is the compulsory application of vehicle, vehicle component certificate or approval issued by an expert institution. The amendment based on EU standards aims to reduce counterfeiting of two or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles and parts marketed to them. A more effective action against unauthorised road freight is made possible by the modification whereby the operator of the road is entitled to control the use of transport licences by foreign carriers at the same time as mass and axle weight checks. The amending proposal also concerns the charging system for trucks over 3.5 tonnes in proportion to the journey taken. The aim is to provide for a clearer framework for prohibited behaviour in the case of heavy-duty vehicles without toll payments or in the case of irregular vehicles, to simplify the tasks of organisations involved in fee checks, while at the same time establishing a legal basis for user-friendly practices that prevent the imposition of unfair fines. Ladies and gentlemen, All these amendments aim to ensure that carriers can use the country's road network under the same conditions, protect the interests of compliant carriers and reduce competitive disadvantages caused by non-paying carriers. A more effective response to those violating the e-vignette rules of the toll system is made possible by the rule that the request for payment of the surcharge is only possible after the detection of the data of the non-compliance operator. Under the rules currently in force, the request for payment of the surcharge should be sent to the post within a period of 60 days from the date of the unauthorised use of the road. The data of foreign unauthorised road users are not included in the Hungarian vehicle register, so their identification may sometimes exceed the 60-day deadline. The amendment also provides a solution to the accountability of the more difficult to identify domestics and foreigners that can be found through cross-border cooperation. The amendment and the rules on surcharges currently applied in the vignette toll system will continue to apply from 2016. Due to the change in regulation at the level of the European Parliament and Council regulations, the proposal requires the competent authority to authorise the provision of recording equipment, in Hungarian for installation, testing, repair and production activities related to the use of tachographs. The amendment also proposes a change in the rules of competence for periodic official inspections of passenger cars and vans. It refers the testing of these vehicles to the competence of designated testing centres designed for this purpose, thereby releasing the previously committed capacity of technical examination bases operated by government offices. The amendment will create a clearer, more transparent, more cost-effective situation in the field of technical tests and, not least, reduce waiting lines. The proposed amendments to the legal provisions relating to railway assets aim to ensure that the ownership and asset management situation of the railway undertaking is maintained in the long term, facilitating the early closure of investment projects and the settlement of operating conditions. The proposal also provides for a uniform management of communications networks along state-owned motorways, making the use of the road communications network faster, simpler and more efficient. The share of online purchases in trade is constantly increasing, while consumer complaints are increasing. The amendment of the consumer protection law is a solution to the problems that arise. The advantage of ODR procedures included in ADR procedures lies in their cheapness, simplicity and speed. They benefit both the consumer and the company, as they avoid legal proceedings and costs. The EU ODR regulation will allow consumers and traders to settle their online shopping disputes electronically through a single EU ODR platform through an interactive and user-friendly website free of charge. Dear Parliament, I would ask you to discuss the legislative amendments that have been detailed so far, to make improvements and to support the government's objectives by adopting the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-18-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us seeks to change the regulation of two issues: transport and consumer protection. Of these, I express our position on the rules in the field of transport, and my colleague, Szilárd Németh, will state our position on consumer protection. The European Union's transport policy aims to ensure the smooth, efficient, safe and free movement of persons and goods throughout the European Union through integrated networks using all modes of land, rail, water and air transport. In Hungary, high-capacity motorways and motorways have already strongly influenced the country's spatial structure, regional relations, restructuring the interior of cities, and affecting land structures. The amendment of the Road Transport Act contains a number of legislative proposals that are necessary for technical and EU harmonisation reasons. Changes in the charging of vehicles and buses below 3.5 tonnes on motorways and motorways without e-vignettes or with incorrectly redeemed stickers aim to ensure that domestic and foreign illegal road users are treated in the same way when imposing sanctions. [[14.50]] In addition, the current surcharge on motorways and motorways, without e-vignettes or with incorrectly redeemed stickers, should be maintained from 1 January 2016. In the course of the studies carried out in 2015 following the conversion of the toll system, it was found that it is not necessary to take official action against users of e-vignettes without an e-vignette or a mis-chosen sticker. The efficiency of the levying of surcharges and the sufficient deterrent effect of the sanctioning can be ensured in the context of a service-based service-based administration, which is currently applied in a customer-friendly manner, containing equity elements. The government has decided to introduce a new road category for the motorway network. With a view to achieving the objectives of the Roads, they provide high service-level links for county-righted cities and industrial-technology centres in regional contexts and ensure the creation of certain minor transit links. With regard to their main technical characteristics, the motorways generally have a design speed of 110 km/h, a two-track split track, a reduced cross-section, without a disguised service band, which has a physical separation capable of withholding motor vehicles, and a separate level or regulated level nodes. The primary objective of the bill is to introduce legislation on the new road category described above and to establish legislation on highways. The rules of competence for periodic technical tests are also amended. In the future, testing bases and technical test bases in the operation of the Budapest and county government offices will cease to be eligible for technical testing in respect of passenger cars and vans - vehicles with a maximum authorised mass of less than 3,5 tonnes. In this context, I think it is necessary to mention that the change should not entail an increase in fees for vehicle owners, i.e. the designated test stations should not charge higher than the 16 290 HUF test fee currently prescribed for the car, so they should not suffer any disadvantage. In addition, the authority should pay particular attention to the control of the designated test stations. The transport of vehicles overloaded with regard to axle or total weight constitutes a risk and risk to national road assets and to the safety of transport. Therefore, the establishment of a network to support national axle overweight and associated checks aims at establishing a complex national axle under-weight monitoring system for national traffic impacts, which ensures that road transport systems with rights related to the use of the existing State-owned road network can work together to reduce the unauthorised or non-licensed transport of overloaded vehicles, sanctioning operators of irregular vehicles. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill.
u2015-11-18-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It is almost possible to agree with Mr State Secretary that the amendments to the law before us contain elements that remove a lot of burden for the population, but they also hid good things in this salad law. With the introduction of the concept of a highway - Imre Vas, my fellow Member, said - quality roads will be created. I will explain this further, which I think will be completely contrary to what my fellow Member has just said. But some things about the law change itself. The aim of the bill is to introduce a new road category of the expressway network class, together with 13 traffic-related laws. I'll tell you about this later. Optimising the free capacity of the electronic communications network along state-owned motorways, which I think can be fully agreed with. The establishment of a national axle weighing monitoring system (TS), hereinafter referred to as "TS'), which ensures that existing state-owned road transport systems with access rights to the road network can work together to reduce the unauthorised or non-licensed transport of overloaded vehicles, and to penalise vehicles in irregular traffic. The amendment of Act I of 1988 on Road Transport establishes, on the one hand, the legal framework for the development of the national axle weighing system, the rules for data processing. The bill designates NÚSZ Zrt., acting as a builder in the implementation process. In the light of practical experience, the rules on road traffic control are also set out in the bill in order to make controls more effective. Continue to maintain the current surcharge for non-e-vignette or incorrectly redeemed stickers from 1 January 2016 and establish rules for the online dispute resolution forum for consumer disputes. It is planned that the online platform will link all national ADR entities - a conciliation body - with us. This only entry point will be an interactive, user-friendly website, which will be available free of charge in all official EU languages. In addition, a link to the ODR platform will provide consumers with additional information on the trader's website. Consumers and businesses can also use the ODR platform to settle their disputes online, where they can submit their complaints in any official EU language. The platform will help to resolve cross-border disputes, in particular where the parties live in different Member States and do not have a common language. The amendment lays down the provisions necessary for the implementation of the ODR Regulation. Citizens should not be obliged to exchange their vehicle registrations in the event of a change of address. I would now like to make some comments on the most important amendment, the introduction of highways. The question has to be asked, how safe will the miracle roads and high-quality roads announced by Viktor Orbán and his government be? The government has taken a decision on the introduction of the speedway category, the government's decision on this was added in the Hungarian Gazette. The decision states that the Government agrees with the need to introduce the new motorway category in order to achieve the road development targets set. On this basis, the National Development Minister should ensure the establishment of a legislative and technical environment for the new motorway category with the involvement of the relevant ministers. However, the decision considers it necessary, for example, to build a protective fence along the highway, while the minimum distance between the level crossings can be 15 km, and traffic control at level crossings is the primary priority. When designing the Highway, the plans shall be designed in such a way that the Highway can be developed into a higher motorway category, a motorway, a motorway. It invites the Minister for National Development to examine in which cases the new type of road may be used for the development of motorways and, where possible, to begin preparation without delay. Once the legislative and technical environment has changed, existing road network elements corresponding to the new motorway category will be transferred to this category. [[15.00]] Although not a single meter has been built in Hungary from this new section of the road, we can see that the idea of the Prime Minister's promises has already sparked a heated debate because of the new type of road, the quick way, which did not yet exist at the time. Preparatory documents have shown that the number of accidents can increase significantly, at least in those stages where the new road type would be built as a continuation of motorways, and thus unexpected level crossings would appear, and the plans project that; since the highways recently announced by State Secretary László Tasó would mostly link county-righted cities and borders with motorways. In view of the risk of traffic safety and high traffic, it was not proposed to take a shortcut, for example, in the section between the Csorna-Sopron border, the Bóly border or M0-Abony, but rather a safer highway or motorway. For example, the section between M4 and Kaposvár and M1 and Pope does not escape the construction of the highway. There will also be a shortcut where, according to the authors, there is a risk, but the traffic forecast is low, so Vásárosnamény and Záhony, as well as Vásárosnamény and Beregdaróc, because they do not plan to continue the construction on the Ukrainian side. Originally, the professional proposal was to call the new creature a key road, but it was rejected very quickly, because the Prime Minister's promises... - Mr.Orbán went through the roadshow of Hungary, building the road for billions of forints everywhere, and that was not what the promises were about. On Viktor Orbán's rural tour, he repeatedly said that cities with county rights should be connected to the motorway network. They are now achieving this risky compromise with this amendment of the law. According to government plans, we can split by 110 kilometers per hour on highways not very long on the so-called highways. The two types of roads would be similar to each other in so far as they are both two lanes and physically separate the two traffic directions, but that is the end of the likeness. Based on the other characteristics of the new invention, it prefers to drive to the main roads, on which the maximum speed is only 90 km/h, because intersections can tear it up, up to 10 km/h by crossing national roads, providing connections between settlements at nodes, outside of populated areas, and on their border it is also permitted to create circular traffic. A separate level crossing can only be built on a missing basis, in particular in justified cases, for example, an open section for the transit of pedestrian and cycling traffic, but, if possible, a limited number of wildlife can only be built on the basis of an individual test. At the rail crossings, they would first decide on the basis of traffic whether it is worth maintaining the line and the transfer of agricultural roads with small-cost, reduced-size artifacts. The profession said that the introduction of this type of road was insane, but it doesn't seem to bother the government, Viktor Orbán went around the country, he promised. I would quote from your statement on Zalaegerszeg: Zalaegerszeg cannot solve his problems of isolation alone, can not build a motorway on its own, can only be done by government means. Orbán also added that a significant part of the problems of the county seat in Zalai stem from the lack of adequate accessibility, as there are some other county-righted cities in the country that are not a full part of the country's economic flow, because it is difficult to reach. Viktor Orbán, on his rural tour, has actually given way to the fact that county-righted cities are being connected to the motorway network, which is now being achieved with a risky compromise. The problem is that there is insufficient resources for the grandiose plan, such as 460 billion from the EU for road construction in this seven-year cycle, which is roughly half of the previous cycle compared to the previous period. The promise is thus being met by a marked reduction in investment costs; this is what has been said in many cases that roads will be built with reduced technical content. The solution is to eliminate separate level crossings, which are one of the most expensive elements of road construction, while motorways and motorways are the main criteria of motorways under collective names, multi-level nodes designed to prevent dangerous level crossings. However, despite the poorer construction, the highways would be called the expressway, simply by broadening the category, by amending more than a dozen pieces of legislation, and even by exempting them from the general technical requirements. The highway would be cheaper than the motorways based on the current technical specifications. The development portfolio estimates that at least one kilometer of motorways is based on HUF 2.5-4 billion, the unit cost of the highway is HUF 2-2.7 billion, compared to 1.5-2.5 billion. For such a difference, the government would be willing to build more dangerous hybrids. I'd like to give you some more details, just about the accidents. On motorways, the incidence of fatal accidents, a third to a quarter of the number of fatal accidents per billion kilometres of vehicles, is the same as for other types of roads. Roads are 10-20 percent worse than highways, but they're still much safer than other types of roads. It seems to be an emergency constellation that the parameters of the new road hybrid, the highway, fit the main roads, and the speed allowed will be the same as that of the highways. Some other ideas are that the introduction of this type of road has not only been amended because Viktor Orbán has been travelling across the country, but, I'm sure, the parliament still remembers, that in 2014, the M4 was not going to be built. A lot of lies have also been told between the walls of Parliament, a lot of press statements have been published that they have been cartelling, the European Union will investigate this matter, not want to support it, and everything has turned out to be a net lie. From the outset, the European Union has not supported the construction of this part of the road, and in 2014 Viktor Orbán himself and his government knew that the European Union would not support it, it was not included in the budget, yet the budget of this section was modified by HUF 60 billion at the end of 2014 and János Lázár announced in May 2015 that the contract would be terminated. It has come to the public from this point on, when we have called for the government within the walls of Parliament, the introduction of this type of road, the construction of the road at some point, we now have absolutely no idea when this will be completed, or when they will start something there for the Abony-Argument section on the road with reduced technical content. And now there's the amendment of the law. You won't mind that from the start of the business, everyone has described that this is going to be much more dangerous. In the last five years, in 165 accidents, 311 were injured and 26 were killed. The government is not disturbed by this, and even the government wants to take a road that will increase the construction and continuation of this road called the Way of Death. I believe that at some point this responsibility will have to be taken on by the current government. Therefore, for this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this package, we will submit amendments to it; if they are supported by the government, we will only be able to support it, so that we cannot accept this package in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-18-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps it is not without a lesson that different parties find different emphasis within a bill and represent different interests. I do not want to talk about the interests of different road construction companies, which has been referred to by the socialist fellow Members as regards the bill, but I would like to talk about what concerns and concerns people most. One of the most important issues covered by this bill is the question of parking and parking fines. [[15.10]] What's this about? In 2010, the newly formed Parliament transformed the rules of parking in such a way that the parking companies that operated throughout the capital city, for example, had become public property, and then began a completely absurd practice: if a motorist did not come forward with the payment of the surcharge over a long period of time, or because he missed the delivery of the Santa Claus package calling for the payment of the fee - the Pest common language calls the check hidden in the bag, which was issued generously to the motorists - then he paid 40 times the waiting fee. This case was followed several times later by court proceedings. In all of this, it was an absurd practice to know that there was a higher income from fines for parking companies, at least here in the capital, than could otherwise be realised from parking fees. In English: motorists were fined to death. Mr Secretary of State, you are carrying out and dealing with a lot of transport and energy laws here in Parliament for your minister. If I tell you that you, the Fidesz government, look at motorists as milk cows, then, I believe, the Secretary of State - at least in himself - agrees with me. What am I thinking now when I say that Fidesz sees motorists as milk cows? Highly high, 27 percent VAT, EU record level VAT are paid by car drivers in Hungary. The registration tax for a very simple, mid-to-middle-class car is virtually amazing, because in many countries they simply do not pay registration tax, and at present, I note that a 125-ccc auxiliary motor cycle - at least this is what this category of vehicle is considered in several places - is registered as a motorcycle in Hungary - an appropriate amount of registration tax for a passenger car. I would add that in this case the existence of a registration tax alone is problematic, so the fact is that this otherwise supported vehicle category is being scraped off in Hungary and does not allow it to spread. It is also important to note, for example, that the government has not done anything to deal with the issue of congestion charges, because it is now apparent that the Metropolitan Government, in a vulnerable financial situation, will impose the congestion charge on Budapest drivers. In this connection, an amazing lie tsunami was launched by pro-government politicians - they claimed that it was mandatory to ban it and pull it on the Hungária Boulevard, that this certain congestion charge should apply to the area within the Hungária ring, but the reality is that the European Union did not say what area the congestion charge should cover. In our view, it would be enough to impose this certain congestion charge on the internal territory alone. I also think it is very important, Mr Secretary of State, which you have not stressed, but let us be honest with you that the facts speak for themselves: why should you introduce this certain congestion charge to the City Council, and why does the government do nothing about it? It was a very important lesson that metro 4 development was practically pointless. Currently, an amazing public money is being used to implement an unprofessional, unprofessional, flawed concept in the transport development of Budapest, because all South Buda flights are being diverted to Metro 4 and in Metro 4 they will try to produce an appropriate number of passengers in this way so that the European Union does not ask for development resources back. In many cases, access times in public transport will increase rather than be reduced by the renewal of subway 4. I don't know if you know this, Mr. Secretary of State, some of us know about this issue, because we have dealt with Budapest: there is a bus service on a track with Metro 4 and when Metro 4 ran its test operation in Hungary, i.e. it stopped in the stops without passengers, opened the door, shut the door and went further, took a slower route than the bus running parallel to it, the public bus running on the surface, which had to be counted for the time of loading and filling the passengers in the stops. In English: Budapest carried out a development that didn't make any sense at all, as even a bus on the surface on the same track and carrying passengers could be faster than the metro line 4 was running the doors only open and closed during passenger traffic-free transport. So it's simply amazing what's going on here, and I very much ask you, Mr. Secretary, that the government should have the power to make sure that if the Demszkys have ruined it, it is not important for you, I think, to further enhance the madness by simply re-tuning the traffic of the Budapest City Council in southern Budapest. Here, I think the government would have something to do to help this current situation, not to a metropolitan government with a lack of resources that you deliberately have dependent on. I also think it is important to tell you how Jobbik would handle the issue of paying parking. We said, Mr Secretary of State, that, unlike Fidesz politicians, we would not view motorists as milk cows, we would not constantly punish them, but we would make sure that those who have a BKV pass can use P+R parking lots for free. At the moment - I can tell you this from the first hand because I also regularly park in a P+R parking lot - it is not possible to use it this way, as car drivers have to pay for it, they are virtually scratched by the price of a BKV ticket, and they cannot use these parking spaces in a similar way. We would also consider it important to build more P+R parking spaces; I know that there is some progress in this as compared to the former Demszky era, but we also consider it important to build multi-storey parking lots as far as possible and not to occupy new public spaces for cars. It is worth checking, Mr Secretary of State, that when the government refers to whether there is a source or not, what exactly and how much municipalities with Fidesz leadership have been able to spend. For example, I don't know if the Secretary of State knew that during the migration crisis, the City Council was able to create an amount of money for dealing with the migration problem only, of which a thousand seats of P+R parking space could have been built. So there is money there if the municipality does not spend it on someone else, and it would be important for the motorists in Budapest to create the possibility not to face fines, not to pay the amazing amount of parking charges, but to think about the possibility of having fixed parking places for people living in the area, besides those who are Budapest motorists, who can park in very cheap or even free zones because, for example, they have BKV tickets and basically use BKV flights to public transport in the capital. It was also interesting that when Marcell Tokody, the representative of Jobbik in the capital behind me raised the question of the reform of paying parking, István Tarlós flipped back on our representative and said that everything was okay in the matter of the surcharge, as is the case, the practice of the Budapest General Assembly is legal, which he was able to implement with fidesz votes, and that it is also perfectly okay that car drivers are regularly subject to a virtually amazing amount of surcharge payments. On the other hand, the Curia's position was completely different. The Curia gave practically the truth to our Budapest representative, Marcell Tokody, when he found that the Budapest Parking Regulation, which my fellow Member contested, was a violation of two points and called on the municipality to terminate this illegal practice. By the way, Secretary of State, in this case Jobbik was on the party of the rule of law, Jobbik was on the party of common sense, and Jobbik represented the interests of vulnerable Budapest motorists to the self-indulgent of the City Council; we were the only ones. Two independent ombudsman inquiries by Albert Takács and Máté Szabó have also identified these violations, but the arrogant Fidesz city administration has not done anything. [[15.20]] In this case, we had to go all the way to the Mansion in order to make a difference in this case. I would also like to thank Marcell Tokody for his work, because it was thanks to him that we could get to this point, and this amazing situation in Budapest could change. I note that when I said at the beginning that various parties put the emphasis on different places, I am very sorry that no Member of the LMP is currently available at the hearing of the bill, even though I would have liked to have asked them why Antal Csárdi, the representative of the LMP in the capital, agreed with the introduction of the Budapest congestion fee and even increased its amount. He would pay 700 HUF a day to the Budapest motorists, practically as a collection fee to the city. I know that the LMP, as well as Jobbik, has an important public transport situation, but I don't think it's right for car drivers to be sabotaged on a fidest pattern, to continue punishing them with new burdens. It was an important change, which this bill also deals with, that the fine is not justified if the period between the date of the check and the starting date of the parking ticket or the period of validity of the mobile parking fee is not longer than 5 minutes. What happened many times was that while motorists went to the parking garage to change money or to walk to the car park, they were punished by parking attendants. Because of this practice, which has been pursued undisturbed for years, especially in the major cities of the country, there may have been higher fines revenues than the amount of parking revenues generated. Not because the motorists were wicked, irresponsible, and careless, but because the Fidesz city administration, not least under the pressure of Dávid Vitézy transport professionals, punished the motorists. I think it is important to tell the changes here very briefly, Mr Secretary of State, which we have tabled to the Government in the form of a number of amendments. I'd just like to give you a little extract of that in the absence of time. Here we considered it important to complement the priorities of the National Development Plan with the underpasses and overpasses. It is important that Community funds available should also cover this area. I think it would be important to make these improvements only in terms of shortening access times, and also in terms of accident safety. So I call on the government to include these types of the national development plan. I also think it is very important that when a person is being punished for failing to pay tolls, the government should move towards e-administration by e-mailing this person if, for example, it is a truck driver or a car owned by a company. After all, these data are also recorded by the State itself, and are managed by the State through the customer gate, through the electronic customer gate, because each entity should have an e-mail address and contact details, and it would be important to create the possibility for companies to receive automatic notification in this case. I note, however, that, in most cases, the measure takes place virtually faster, and the recovery of the State's debts is done more quickly and more effectively. Please, Mr Secretary, look at these proposals, we have clarified a number of detailed rules, we have modified the intention of improving them. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now, as independent Members do not take part in the debate, two-minute speeches will follow. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-18-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Vas Imre also had one in mind that was related to the certification of the high-speed road, which was basically the basis for the existence of a high-quality standard. Now, all I would like to say in addition to this is that it is a dangerous game that you are playing in this regard. Although several press organisations call this a hungaricum, the government legitimizes this story, because it has already been published through the Hungarian Gazette. The profession, who are involved in road development, is a multitude of engineers, the engineering industry itself, the Car Club and everyone else involved in this project, classified this story as dangerous, the story of highway construction. Some people make it a lot worse than that. I don't even want to refer to a variety of entries anymore, but it's really professional. They call everything you do a mind-freak, a technical nonsense. Basically, a mule solution, which is only about one thing, is that the road development goals, of course, which were defined in terms of motorways and highways, are almost as if they were being fulfilled, are as if they were being achieved. Brain, technical nonsense, and more importantly, there are a lot of human lives at stake. Looks like it. A lot of accidents could be avoided if they didn't take this path. How do you think it is possible to travel safely without the lack of a stop-off or a cover-up? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will continue our work with further speeches. I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-18-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill, as my fellow Member Imre Vas said, has another purpose, and this is the consumer protection legislation, which, overall, aims to facilitate a simple, rapid and effective solution to consumer protection problems related to online transactions by laying down the provisions necessary for the implementation of the European Parliament and Council regulation on online dispute resolution, the so-called ODR regulation, and the essence of this is, of course, out of court. Well-functioning alternative procedures encourage consumers to seek solutions to the problems encountered when purchasing products and using services. High-quality ADR entities should be available to consumers. In this case, in the case of out-of-court solutions, the so-called online dispute resolution tasks will be carried out by conciliation bodies operating alongside commercial and industrial chambers in Hungary. This dispute resolution procedure has several winners and several beneficiaries, obviously primarily consumers, but of course it is also good for businesses. I think that the system of public institutions, and even the judicial system itself, will benefit from the possibility of these solutions in connection with the application or transposition of the EU regulation and the definition of the circumstances that are enshrined in this bill. Consumers can obtain substantial financial and timely savings, since the conciliation board procedure is out of court and consumers are free of charge to resolve the dispute between the consumer and the business, so that the consumer can settle the financial disadvantage with the enterprise, and the dispute can be resolved within a short period of time, which is usually up to 3-4 months. The conciliation panel procedure can therefore be used free of charge and an alternative out-of-court dispute resolution forum available throughout the country. On the other hand, judicial enforcement is lengthy. We know that this can be 4-5 years old in Hungary, and it is extremely expensive, because we also have to pay procedural fees, legal representation, lawyers' fees and expert costs. Consumers should be provided with appropriate information on the opportunities available to them in the context of ADR, and this will be done by the so-called conciliation bodies. [[15.30]] It is also good for businesses, since such a situation can strengthen the reputation of businesses. In addition to savings that can be expressed in money for consumers, consumer confidence is expected to increase, and the reputation of businesses is expected to increase, which will help the market to function properly. Businesses should also be provided with appropriate information on the options available to them in the context of ADR. And, of course, the state institution can also benefit from this opportunity for itself. The online dispute resolution procedures to be conducted by the conciliation body have a huge role to play in consumer protection enforcement, mitigate the burden on justice and provide practical and cost-effective dispute resolution on the part of the enterprise and the consumer. Consumers turn with increasing confidence to the domestic conciliation bodies, which is supported by the increasing number of cases each year. In 2006, the bodies discussed a total of 3542 cases, while last year it reported 10 210 cases. Each year, the state supports reconciliation bodies with the amount set out in the Finance Act, which is HUF 360 million this year. This amount is distributed among the conciliation bodies in proportion to the number of cases. The State is responsible for the effective use of budgetary support, and it is therefore essential that as many cases as possible be resolved with conciliation bodies. In view of the above, Fidesz supports the bill. I call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-18-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-18-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said in the expozee and included in our keynote speeches, any measure that strengthens consumer protection must be supported by us. The problem is that a number of other measures are included in this package, which unfortunately does not make the current amendment acceptable. My colleague Nándor Gúr and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also spoke about this, especially with regard to the dangers of the highway. But if Mr Secretary of State is here and we are talking about this topic, rail development, road transport, transport, let me draw your attention to two things. One: in the election campaign, Fidesz has repeatedly spoken about the need to launch a national road network development programme in Hungary, in a form that passes through government cycles, as everyone knows that the amount of problems that has accumulated over the past 20-30-40 years because of the state of the road network cannot be solved from one moment to the next, and in many cases there is a government cycle or even two government cycles. For this reason, for our part, we would have been partners in adopting a long-term road network development programme, a national road network development programme. In this, we would have identified as a fundamental priority, based on our own conviction, that the quality development of lower roads may now be a higher priority than the construction of motorways. The second important issue was the development of motorways, and the third was the development of motorways, which could be important because of the connection to the current motorway network and the motorway network of neighbouring countries. So these would have been roughly the three directions that we would have considered important, and basically we would have considered EU funds, up to EUR 1 billion per year, to be useful, which we could use for up to six or eight years. On the other hand, the government took a completely different direction on the highway, since it does not use the traditional categories, but, as Nándor Gúr said earlier, introduces a Hungaricum, which means reduced technical content, but we believe that transport in Hungary will become much more dangerous. Therefore, we ask the government that it would be good for us to stick to the usual categories so far and build a long-term strategy on this. That's one of the comments. The second point is that we would also ask the representatives of the government not to decide whether or not a road can be built on the basis of what kind of fidesz friends or enemies do. I understand that friends sometimes quarrel with each other and that a previously favored company, the Public Machine, falls out of the pics, but when it comes to projects such as the part of the M4 motorway between Abony-Weapon, then I don't like it, I don't like it as a policy, but it should be based on common sense. In Hungarian, if you have already started something - and the M4 is an important section of the road, because there are an enormous number of accidents on this road, and I think that all governments of the last 25 years have failed to make progress in this area - it is also a huge waste if an investment started is not completed. We therefore want to encourage the government not to be alarmed that Lajos Simicska is building it, I say as a socialist, but to end it and to provide the necessary resources to ensure that there is a safe transport, and not to reduce technical content, but to make it a motorway called the M4 motorway, based on the original plans. The other thing is about the rail network. We would also consider a long-term strategy important for rail development. It is not only EU directives, but also common sense and many other economic interests. Here, too, I would like to refer two unpleasant trends to the attention of the Secretary of State. Over the last few days, I have been talking to railway unions and other experts who have drawn attention to the fact that today there are so few railwaymen, which simply jeopardises the safety and effectiveness of the operation of rail transport, if that is the case. So it would be worth paying attention to the fact that there is a lot of fluctuations, but the stock is no longer recharged, and even there are professions with special skills that are dangerous in the railway. In this way, vehicles in rail transport can easily drift to the limit of inability, since there will be no more effective professionals, no more people to work there for this money and under such conditions. The other was a development from a few days ago, perhaps Friday, when the new timetable appeared at the railway station. Here, experts say that from 13 December, about 5 million kilometers will run away from the change of timetable in the operation of the railway. According to experts, this means minus 6 percent flight thinning. We believe that this minus 6 percent, this 5 million kilometers run is a huge number, and it does not in any way serve the government goals and EU directives we are talking about. Not to mention that in 2010, you announced with great momentum that all the suspended and not eliminated wing lines would be reopened. We are beyond the fact that they have not been reopened, only one pointer around Zirc to make Tibor Navracsics happy, but the rest has not been reopened. Now, rather than opening new ones or reopening the previously suspended ones, they want to take another 5 million kilometers out of this, which will be a serious problem for the public in terms of scheduled trains. In addition, the new schedule was not very elegantly published on Friday afternoon. There is also an example in the House of certain initiatives entering this House on Friday afternoon, preferably 6-7 o'clock. I wanted to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to these. For our part, we would support all the intentions and goals that would enable the modernisation of railway development, network development or even the development of the national road network. I believe that this could also achieve consensus between political parties. Of course, this, like all other huge investments, must be accompanied by transparency, transparency and efficiency in terms of both spending money and carrying out work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.40]]
u2015-11-18-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner, Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-18-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I would like to continue with another area, which is also affected by the bill. With regard to road construction, Mr. Secretary, how is the situation at present? In recent years, we have seen, not only in road construction but also in major infrastructure investments, that the large investments are carried out by companies close to each other peacefully, with the largest agreement. For example, we have seen very often that there are entrepreneurs who are clearly linked to the government, who are leaving the Prime Minister's immediate environment, on one side, and on the other side, there are entrepreneurs who can be clearly linked to the left, large road companies, and more than once foreign companies, who are also close to politics. You may remember, Mr Secretary of State, when the Hungarian Nation wrote about the situation with the alliance of the Strabag Democrats. He wrote it because according to some investigations, various rolling funds were added to the left, which came from Hungarian road construction and similar projects. So you can see that we are basically talking about a sector in which political influence is decisive, with a political influence on who should own the companies to whom public money can be obtained, who can receive the order. It is also important to see how much abuse is associated with the operation of this sector and how it is implemented. First of all, that the state should operate an operating organisation which, where appropriate, performs the management tasks of a road construction at the higher level, of course, could not be heard at Fidesz, nor could any concept be read. And what happens a lot? In many cases, such large investments are made in such a way as to get the task to an administration company with 6-7 employees, the administration company with 6-7 employees will pass on this order, and then real entrepreneurs with less political ties, those with a machine, the means to get into these construction processes where appropriate, will actually do the work. Of course, most of the profit comes mainly from companies linked to politics, and the smaller part goes to businesses, but they are the ones who are very often not paid, they are not valued, and no matter how pathetic it sounds, but the European Union funds that come to Hungary travel to Strabag, Swietelsky, Colas and other large road construction companies. In English, what's happening? The European Union will give us money to build infrastructure, and then a significant part of this money will be given to companies from richer European countries coming from Western Europe, in the form of orders, and, of course, the profits generated will be taken out of the country according to its order and manner. Question, Minister of State, if your government claims to be a national, then tell me why it cannot be resolved that at least the roads, the large infrastructure investments in Hungary are carried out by Hungarian-owned companies, not multinationals, not foreigners. The question is whether this is because, let's say, the Hungarian people forgot to build a road. Can't we make a bridge? We don't know how to build a freeway? Why is it that a foreign company comes here and makes 100 billion dollars a year or 200 billion dollars, as we saw at Strabag and careers in the Hungarian public procurement system, takes the opportunity away from Hungarian businesses? Is it possible that a Hungarian company will run a German motorway acquisition, a motorway construction, and the Hungarian company will win in front of German companies? Or, in Austria, would it be possible for a Hungarian company to enter the public tender and beat up the Austrian companies outside? Let's be honest, this case is less conceivable. In Hungary, it is only a miracle that a foreign company will come here and take profits from businesses even in a relatively simple sector such as the construction of large infrastructure investments or the construction of motorways. In Hungary, we cannot somehow prevent foreigners from getting a role, a significant order from Hungarian public money. Mr State Secretary, I believe that this would be a task for the government in which substantial progress is needed. If you look at the Hungarian construction sector, you can see that it is at a low point. Data from the civil engineering sector show that a few years ago, in 2003-2004, 43-44 thousand flats were built, currently only a fifth of this volume. All the things that are currently heating the Hungarian economy are due to European Union funds, to the fact that the European Union is giving Hungary money, and unfortunately, this money, as I have just said, will be returned to foreign-owned companies in no small part and will be taken out of the country in no small part. So in this thing, I think it's important to move forward. I also think it is important to say, Mr State Secretary, that when the various large investments or plans are made, it is worth checking whether these plans are economically sound. They would remind you of the M6 motorway, for example, which is good for people living in the region, of course, but let's be honest, it's a kong of emptiness, because there's not enough traffic on it to make this highway ever pay. The same bad plan that I have repeatedly made here, Secretary of State, the V0 railway ring, which was grossed up from around HUF 300 billion to an estimated cost of HUF 360 billion. The government would like to take credit for this, because from the south they want to build the railway ring avoiding Budapest with this amazingly large amount of money. It is also worth checking out what the railway ring is for. For freight traffic to take place on the V0 railway ring, we spend 360 billion forints on this. And if I ask you, Secretary of State, or any of the Fidesz Members, where are those Hungarian industrial companies that fill these wagons with their own goods later on, what do you say? In practice, there is no Hungarian industry. Then what is happening, fellow Members? According to the government's plans, the Hungarian State will take a HUF 360 billion loan from foreigners in order to build a railway ring that will deliver goods to foreign companies established here. In Hungarian, what happens is that Hungary, a country in a virtually colonial position, uses the money of its own taxpayers, takes credit for building the infrastructure for foreign companies established here. This is similar to the time when the British colonial empire built roads in India. England didn't build a road back then because it was believed that Indian people shouldn't walk in the mud, but because it was necessary to exploit the colony, from there they could properly deliver the right amount of goods by creating a logistical background and creating infrastructure. The same is happening in Hungary, the government wants to spend HUF 360 billion on this investment, while practically Hungarian industrial companies that could fill these freight wagons in the relevant sections do not exist. We all have to face this. We can mention a number of other rail developments, Mr Secretary of State, which are also carried out in this area with a similar senselessness. I can think of the Kelebian railway, for example. Who really believes that 100 billion forints of traffic will ever be generated by the North-South rail link to Belgrade for the country, honestly? ! Where are the impact assessments that the government considers such a huge investment to be justified? I'd like to see this. I would like to see that these investments will ever pay off, and it is not just about the Government's attempt to create a sufficient amount of orders by making unnecessary investments in public money for certain capital groups linked to the government. [[15.50]] It is simply a matter of the Secretary of State that, if Parliament is here, we must bring in these impact assessments, we must discuss them, whether at committee level we are willing to conduct these professional debates, but I ask you, Mr State Secretary, that you also convey to the Prime Minister the need that the opposition party of Parliament, Jobbik, would like the government to be accounted for, and in the interests of our own conscience and professional integrity, we would like to do everything we can to exercise our right of control over the government in Parliament. If there is such an impact assessment, we would like to learn about it. If there is no such impact assessment, then I ask you to refrain from these amazing, virtually pointless investments. It is also worth looking at, Mr Secretary of State, while we are talking about these investments, what the leaders of the logistics sector are saying, for example, those who are carrying out railway freight transport in Hungary. They say that they do not need to build these new, extremely expensive sections in the first place, but that the government will put the existing sections of the tracks in such a state that slow signals will escape, and that freight trains will not have to ride by twenty or thirty on these sections to speed up rail transport. This is a much more forward-looking, much less money, much more profitable investment. In addition, there is no need to lie professionally, foolish reasons, such as when the government background claims that the V0 railway ring should be built for HUF 360 billion because it has a small capacity to deliver goods for rail freight traffic in Budapest. I would like to point out, Mr Secretary of State, that the same railway infrastructure carried out three times as much freight at the time of the change of regime without delay at the stage concerned. So these reasons, which you're missing out on as an official explanation, have simply been expressed in a blatantly false way, all the professional opinions, all the data, all the calculations show this. I ask you, Secretary of State, that you are an honest man, to represent these professional aspects and criticisms of the government, to make an investment if there is economic rationality. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-18-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A great deal has been said about the proposal, and a number of people from my group have spoken, and they have obviously said their criticism of the proposal, in particular regarding the quick way as a concept and the new technical way to be introduced. There are, of course, beneficial parts of this proposal in relation to consumer protection, but I think that this new category, in agreement with my fellow Members, is not acceptable. It is not acceptable, because this new category also includes level crossings that, obviously coupled with a higher speed limit, could cause serious accident hazards. Let me remind my fellow Members and the public that I have spoken in the Parliament as a county of Borsod in this case before, in connection with the M30, because this new category has already been published in the Gazette in August, and State Secretary László Tasó has also made press on this subject, announcing the M Highway as a very new and modern opportunity. I immediately asked one of the points of the agreement between the government and the Miskolcs, which was concluded in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" for this reason, between Miskolc and the border of the M30 motorway. I used the word highway, because I think that this M30 section should be part of a north-south European Union transport corridor, part of a corridor connecting Hungary to Poland. It must be a corridor which, even in the framework of intergovernmental agreements, opens up a new opportunity for the eastern part of these countries, where social problems are obviously more pronounced and economic problems. This must be built in this seven-year EU development cycle, and I say so, because I think that if this goes on, this kind of development of the M30 cannot be guaranteed. First, László Tasó said that he considered it conceivable - this can also be looked back from the parliamentary record from the answer to my question - to have reduced technical content for the M30, obviously taking into account traffic data. I said very strongly that the connection between such a corridor and Miskolc, Košice, can only be imagined in the form of a motorway, which could give Borsod an opportunity, but also the Abaúj region. After that, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán an immediate question last Monday, and in fact, although at first he tried not to answer my question specifically, at the end he said that it was not a hocus pocus, but a highway that was built to the border with the M30. I would ask the Secretary of State, as I hope to read from the presentation, to do whatever it takes to make sure that you, too, come from Borsod County, are built as a highway M30 to the border. This is what we can do, and this is what Hungary can do for this region, and I suggest that you contact the governments, that is, the Slovak and Polish governments, with regard to what corridor and how this will otherwise fit in. There has been communication about this between countries before, but what I cannot say at this moment is that everyone feels that this implementation is important until 2019, that is to say, the Slovak stage as well as the Polish section. I think that each type of expressway must go as a motorway to the border in order to make it a real connection to the blood circulation of the surrounding countries, thus building economic and social relations. Before you would say, Mr Secretary of State or any of my fellow members of the Government, why I am bringing this up, I think that more than 700 kilometers of motorways built during socialist governments are a success, this is a success for the country, and I believe that this success has not been followed by a proper continuation in recent years, so in the coming years this can be expected in the new development cycle. The other thing I would like to mention, and part of Attila Mesterházy has already mentioned this, if there is already a railway topic for the proposal and if it concerns consumer protection: years ago I asked Mr. State Secretary here in Parliament, even in the previous term, in connection with the transformation of the MÁV schedule at that time, in order to create a serious debate, between Miskolc and Budapest, a transport opportunity was developed, in the framework of which a disguised price increase was made, since someone would arrive today with an IC from Miskolc to the capital, or, by the way, it would grow by hours, and he would be able to get to Budapest. This was a slow three-year-old, and about three years ago, I had that ominous question about a transformation at the time. I note that unfortunately, the fear that I said at the time came true, with fast trains, has virtually minimal terrain in relation to Miskolc and Budapest for travellers to approach the two cities. Only higher surcharges for intercity flights are ensured. So this was a surreptitious price increase, and there are also destinations where more than 7-8 hours of transfer can be reached in this respect. So there has already been a reduction in the level of consumer protection in the previous cycle, and I don't even talk about what the continuous speed limits mean in terms of the time to get there, as I have many complaints that the previously two-hour journey time cannot be held much longer, it usually takes two and a half hours or more to get from Miskolc to Budapest or vice versa. Today, we are told that about 6 percent of today's scheduled flights will be cancelled. So the 5 million kilometers of driving power taken out of the timetable at the initiative of MÁV Start is obviously affecting the most disadvantaged regions. Miskolc and Budapest are thus affected, so this line is further reduced by their availability to the Miskolc and Borsodii, thus the capital. Not to mention other East-Hungarian lines, perhaps Nándor Gúr will discuss this later, as he will also address this issue. I would like to say that this further reduction between Miskolc and Budapest is not acceptable. This further reduction in performance is not acceptable, and in general I say that the MÁV should deal with it, and I suggest, like Attila Mesterházy, that the Parliament take a position or decide what it expects of this public company, what it expects of this large company, because it is very clear that it is in the interests of the country and passengers to produce a supply schedule. [[16.00]] If this level is constantly reduced, people will not trust in railway transport properly, or there is a danger, let us say, and in this case they will obviously be looking for an alternative to their secure access, passenger car or other means of transport to resolve these issues. Thus, a supply schedule, where there is indeed such a thing as not crowded trains, but a smaller number of trains on these lines, could, in the otherwise long term, lead to the development of the railway at the right level. We have heard that there are problems with numbers in the rail sector, and we have also heard that they are unable to produce cars in sufficient quantities. That's one of the reasons for this thinning. This, of course, is news in the press, it would be good to know more about reality, and it would be good for the Members of Parliament elected by the people to take a position here on what is expected of the Hungarian State Railway Undertaking for the benefit of the people and what is expected of the people in terms of rail transport. I therefore spoke for the sake of my constituency, the Borsodians, Miskolc, in respect of these two, i.e. the motorway to the border; the extension of the M30 to Kassa must be by motorway, as Prime Minister said here, and I would like to make this promise a reality. The second is that it is not acceptable that every year the level of rail transport between Miskolc and Budapest is constantly decreasing, and it is not acceptable that this is the case in the rest of the country. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-18-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy indicated, and my fellow Member, Mr László Varga, it is unacceptable to bring things in under a salad law that are simply nonsense, which cannot be supported, while there are also certain aspects of the draft law that the Member would like to support. Yes, consumer protection issues are the experiments that are formulated to resolve consumer disputes online, resolve disputes, and many other things. I could say the national - albeit why everything has to be national - that does not make it any better, but what the hell - the establishment of a national axle weighing control system and much more, in addition to the change of address, the amendment that there should not be an obligation to change the registration of motor vehicles, these are things that are naturally in the interests of people, so I can say that this too, in the case of consumer protection and the change of address, leaving the traffic permit unchanged, these are all normal proposals that could be supported. But these matters are linked by you with stories such as the category of the quick way, which I said in an introduction two minutes in connection with what Imre Vas recorded, I mean that we are talking about high-quality roads - not me, but those of us professional people, I think, who know more from us, perhaps even in a direct way from the Secretary of State, although he was in a very close relationship with transport over the past decades - that this solution gives rise to risk factors. This solution gives rise to new sources of danger in the absence of stopping lanes, or, as we have said, in the deprivation of enveloped service lanes, which obviously, in the case of God, do not give, they also require human lives. How do my fellow Members, fellow pro-government Members, think that such a hybrid with reduced technical content, or not a hybrid, can, in addition to a distorted solution, win the vote in favour of the representatives on the opposition side? Yeah, because you, you may be able and willing to do this even without consideration, although I do not understand it, but I think that on the opposition side, it is a little more responsible for dealing with the issue than for acting at the expense of the people. What is technically a nonsense, an unacceptable category, cannot be supported. Twice in two lanes, like I said, without stopping lanes - terrible. It's terrible to think about what's going on over the last few decades, what you've had to live for, say, 25-30 years ago, in the absence of an M3, I think about those memories, and I can see how, with a calm spirit, I dare say they're building death roads. That can't be their intention. I don't think they've thought this story through, that they're just going to vote for this proposal, bravely or without courage, blindly - you know, not blind, just reckless - they're going to vote for it, they're going to vote for it. I don't think so. If nothing else, I would like you to think about this, and I would like you to make a responsible decision, not just by pressing a yes button for a presentation. With regard to motorways, in addition to the high risk, it should also be said that there is no proportionality in terms of costs. The excess risk-taking and the reduction of costs are not proportionate. But it's hard to find proportionality here, because, as I said, human lives are at stake, it doesn't matter what quality road network is being built. If we look at the operation of the rail network system and put it under review, it is unacceptable, as we have just said, that timetables are being prepared now, or perhaps have already been made in the days, which will bring about a virtually 5 million kilometers of mileage reduction, as has been said. This decline of 6-7 percent is unacceptable, especially in the spirit of the way you have spoken for many years, I can say: for decades in the spirit of railway development concepts. Unacceptable and in different forms in different parts of the country, but there are signs of injury. As regards Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, North-East Hungary, you can see that we are fundamentally involved in these mileage reductions. You can see that it's also associated with flight losses. In terms of the other part of the country, the more developed part of the country, in terms of the northwest, and in terms of Győr and its surroundings, it can be seen that the category of the fast train is being liquidated and only to ensure that the IC functions, of course, will increase the possibility of transport. And if we go a little further in terms of areas and regions that are disadvantaged, we are not just looking at this situation in terms of county centres, and in some cases we are faced with tragic situations. These are not eligible. They are not eligible when, in the meantime, without impact assessments, without huge improvements being called into existence or development plans being launched or launched, Parliament, the Member of Parliament, cannot be sure of what the underlying content of this is, where the impact assessments are. [[16.10]] But if it wasn't huge, if I wasn't talking about ten-and-a-hundred-billion-forint developments, let's just say 600 million forints - you know, about the small train in Felcsút - I didn't see an impact study there either, but they didn't really come to see what would make it good for who, how and how it would serve their interests. I think that this is not a conceptual thinking, and this alone is not very eligible. If we are talking about rail transport, of course, it is worth talking about its background; it is also worth mentioning that, in recent weeks and months, the MÁV Facility Operator and Railway Ltd. are examples. which procurement procedures are to be launched in relation to the matters covered by its activities, which require at least the question to be raised. In the Public Procurement Notification - I am only telling my fellow Members what to do - look at numbers 121 and 123: it is a background, one about cleaning and the other about railway building maintenance. I am only talking about this because these activities include the MÁV Installation Operator and Railway Ltd. the scope of its activities, the scope of those who were otherwise decided to be reintegrated by MÁV Zrt. at the end of December 2015. within the framework of the programme. This is an order of magnitude for 2180 people, and in addition to the re-integration decision, which was taken somewhere around September, you will issue public tenders that will put the re-integrated organisation in an impossible position, because the total number of people between their ties is more than 500 people, I think, 512, and you will issue a public tender. What are these stories about? A multitude of headless measures that contradict each other. They are about the fact that they may have had them before, in the interests of whom they want to write them out; they carry the possibility of worrying outsourcing. In addition, employers' statements in various negotiations support this because the conduct of the railway guard activity was formulated in a three-member consortium that they would apply for it and would be expected to win it, while the invitation to tender states that the deadline for the submission of the tender is 19 November 2015. I don't know, it's probably the 18th today, so we're not there yet, but we've already had the visualizations. Or another simple thing: when, in connection with job evaluations or classifications, measures are taken to give them to people at the last minute and then stimulate them, urge them to sign these, who complains, to tell them to go to court, or to supplement these amendments with passages that are about the obligation to carry out all the tasks that your boss, your supervisor, trusts them with, so what does it look like in its structure, everything you do? They form rubber rules and create the potential for abuse by employers. It is not important for you to have the Code of Work or the collective agreement, nothing is important, nor is it important that the allowances and other remuneration provided under these laws are, in this sense, lost to people. But let's get closer or let's come back closer. Extraordinary steps are being planned for extraordinary trainings at the end of the year, such as train drivers and ticketing courses. Why? Because there is such a degree of abandonment that it is not practically possible to ensure that the MÁV is operating within normal operating limits even with fluctuations. I don't even want to talk about what happened with regard to the M4 - back to the road - why payments over HUF 30 billion had to happen the way you did, while you terminated the contracts that practically had to do with the construction of the road network between Abony and the Gun. But the end, the most important from our point of view, from the perspective of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, is what my fellow Member Varga spoke about, and in which he addressed the Prime Minister: yes, between Miskolc M30 and Košice, it is not such a hocus pocus, but a highway, that was what the Prime Minister said, so you should do, and not all kinds of other opinions by all kinds of government actors. In order for disadvantaged areas to move forward, these infrastructure surfaces are necessary. I would like to say that, by the way, what Attila Mesterházy was talking about, those conceptual - we can call it national, not because conceptual - road development programmes should form on the basis of common agreements, even between Parliament's walls. If it is not road development, but rail network development, then the development of track surfaces should be done. Secretary of State, you know what I'm saying: between Budapest and Miskolc there is a section where Budapest-Sixen knows how speed limits are. A speed decision of 60 kilometers and below is required. ICs are running on this track section. Maybe that's what energy and resources and thinking should be spent on. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Minister of State, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-11-18-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide for a moment that, as a man committed to Hungarian transport and infrastructure, I am always pleased when there is much talk of Hungarian infrastructure within the eloquent walls of this fancy building, so I was pleased to hear that, although there were very valuable thoughts about a completely different proposal and proposal. Without my own private feelings here, allow me to bring back my youth to a certain degree: I have always learned the first three items, and I can tell you today that Bálint Balassi was born in 1554 in the castle of Zólyom, but it takes more than that. I would like to start by thanking you, in turn, for the statements and statements made on the opposition side, which concern the parts of the present proposal which are acceptable to them, i.e. both the MSZP and Jobbik. We are also convinced that any simplification that makes these procedures faster, simpler or cheaper is useful to operators and to all those involved in them in general, so thank you for these subsidies. If I may, I would like to reflect on a number of topics that have been spoken several times or with weight, or whose significance goes beyond the framework of a political dialogue on Wednesday afternoon, and which, regardless of the disparateness of the proposal that triggered it, I believe, merit reflection. [[16.20]] The first is that my fellow Members here have given priority to the issue of the quick way. Then the government decree was issued. The current proposal includes this in the Roads Act and the Law on Public Interest and Development. In order to repeat and say to the record and to the public, and not to leave my fellow Members' concerns unanswered, let me say this literally. In terms of their aims, they provide a high level of service for county-righted cities and industrial-technology centres in regional areas, i.e. in regional areas, ensuring the creation of certain minor transit links. I say to my fellow Member, Volner, yes, they are part of the role of transit roads which are vital to Hungary because of its geographical situation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In general terms of their main technical characteristics, I stress: not always, in general - 110 km/h planning speed, twice two lanes, split track, with no reduced cross-section, covered service lanes, which have physical separation capable of withholding motor vehicles and separate level or regulated level nodes. In general, their trail does not include a municipal crossing - therefore they also appear as a by-pass route - but, if justified, they may affect a populated area through the provision of adequate traffic safety and environmental means, and may pass through an unbuilt corridor between populated areas. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The introduction of this category takes into account the development of a road network of fundamental importance for Hungary and the realities. I would like to point out in particular, because there have been concerns about this, both previously and now, that they should generally be able to provide an appropriate basis for the construction of a motorway in the future, if the traffic conditions so warrant. So these are not the roads to hell, not the death of a nation, not - I don't know what - sophisticated national destruction measures are, but they are a category of roads under such technical conditions. Congressman Volner is not here, so let me say to him, because he has mentioned things that fall within the competence of the capital here, that I can offer so much, and I will do so, that I will draw the Mayor's attention to the parliamentary record of this afternoon, to study the comments made to the capital here in the House, and, if he considers it necessary, to respond to them. By the way, I agree with the proposal that is technically in place... - and I hope that it will be submitted in amendments to ensure that stakeholders receive an e-mail notification of each measure, and I agree with it, and if the colleagues who have adopted the bill agree with this, I will propose this for my part to be incorporated. Several people talked about railways, railway tracks and timetables, referred to experts, as usual, a number of anonymous signatories, public opinion, and the rest. This is true, by the way, I believe that a multitude of engineers have been mentioned here by my fellow Members. I would be delighted if some of these engineers had names and faces, because these materials were discussed in many places, and there were indeed opinions in many places, which, without exception, supported the development of the road network, and indicated certain parameters that I had previously found included in the wording adopted by the government. As far as the schedule is concerned, they just said that their experts said 6 percent, please either switch experts or read them themselves. Not six percent! Just to give you numbers. From 2,900 daily lines, I remember 47 in the new schedule, not exceeding the usual autumn-spring schedule. In essence, in those where traffic and demand are higher, for example on suburban lines, Tatabánya-Budapest or elsewhere, where we have set more than 40 new engine trains in recent months, or, by the way, significantly improved the capacity and speed of the available infrastructure from major EU funds, we have increased the timetable, increased the number of flights, and in some cases, where the utilisation is below 10 per cent, indeed, I say, from 2900 I remember that in some places, where I do not know, it was an hour flight, we narrowed it down to two hours. This is not 6 percent, not 5 million kilometers; 47 of the 2,900 flights, if I remember correctly, please read the new schedule. Sorry, 49, I wrote down the number, not 47, but 49. I would like to say to Congressman Volner that road construction in Hungary has been coordinated, supervised and managed for many years by a state organisation, called National Infrastructure Development Zrt., commonly known as NIF. That's what it's supposed to do. I do not want to go into the debate here this afternoon in detail, not even because the bill does not concern it, but in the debate on whether or not we need foreign companies in Hungary, whether there are Hungarian road builders or not, the answer is that there are Hungarian road builders, and they usually work together with foreign companies listed by the Member. These foreign companies also employ a large number of Hungarian workers. Today, with one or two exceptions, they work exclusively with Hungarian leadership and Hungarian management, and they produce Hungarian roads and Hungarian railway lines. I believe that Hungary cannot follow Albania's example in this regard in the 1950s-60s. Maybe it's not good, especially in the area of infrastructure development, if we keep our distance from the world. Knowing the opinion of my fellow socialists that from 2010 we are in the government, that we should stop mentioning things before 2010, I myself tend to refrain from doing so, but Congressman Varga asked the question of what we really expect of the MÁV and what is the basic position of the MÁV, the basic question of the MÁV. Congressman Gúr also mentioned it, and Mr Mesterházy also mentioned it. You are right about this, and I agree with that, that the railway has already had labour problems both in numbers and functionally, and not problems, but, after many years of threats, the MÁV is not there to prepare for dismissal, but to hire people, and, after many years of professional training, it has again intensified its own training. Why is that? Please, in 2002, as Minister of Transport, I handed over the wallet to my post-ministerial colleague in the Socialist-SZDSZ government with a debt of HUF 27 billion. Forints 27 billion is a lot of money, the vast majority of which, by the way, I recall, was mostly an investment loan for the purchase of locomotives, and a few billion forints of it was operating money. Dear fellow Members, In 2010, we recovered this with 330 billion debt, and in eight years we managed to increase the debt of MÁV more than 11 times by selling Cargo, the freight transport business for 100 billion, which had neither a trace nor a smoke left in the Hungarian economy. [[16.30]] Someone here mentioned that we may have opened a line. How do I put this? Pulling myself out a little, I have to say yes, I have to say that not you, but the already worn out SZDSZ closed 37 lines, we have restarted 11, where it was technically justified, and indeed, we owe you one, the Putnok-Szilvásvárad-Eger line, where the mountain fell on the rail, and we need billions to clean it up; we still consider it important, and if we get there, we will clean it up. My fellow Members, since 2010, there has been no MÁV strike. [[Dr. László Varga: Because you modified the strike law!]] Before that, there were MAV strikes in a row. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] As a result of recent years, the railman's honor has grown or begun to recover. You have ruined the honour of the railway, the Hungarian Railways and the Railways. [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. László Varga intervene.]] The reason people left was because their future was uncertain, their work was uncertain. Yes, now thank God, the MÁV is on its way to hire people because its operation has stabilized, and it's on its way to say, a new locomotive park with new drivers. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] You want to train people with fresh, modern knowledge because you need to train them, because in the last 10-15-20 years, you've taken the pleasure of people from being an MÁV for a safe living for a century... [[Nándor Gúr, László Kucsák intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] As a result of recent years, the railman's honor has grown or begun to recover. You have ruined the honour of the railway, the Hungarian Railways and the Railways. (Nándor Gúr and Dr. László Varga intervene.) The reason people left was because their future was uncertain, their work was uncertain. Yes, now thank God, the MÁV is on its way to hire people because its operation has stabilized and is there to say, a new locomotive park with new drivers (Dr. László Varga intervenes.) You want to train people with fresh, modern knowledge because you need to train them, because in the last 10-15-20 years you have deprived people of the desire to report to someone MÁV for a safe living over the century... (Nándor Gúr, László Kucsák intervenes. ) Congressman, I didn't want to say, yes, there were 130,000 people working at the MÁV at some point, and in your time there was a significant decrease in the number of people who retired. (Nándor Gúr interrupts.) The Hungarian railway has honour again, the Hungarian railwayman has backbone again, he has honor and a sure livelihood. This is what we have done in all this time, and I say that when you ask the question of what the Hungarian economy means, the Hungarian economy is the skeleton of Hungarian society, it holds together the organization of society, and that is why it is important (Nándor Gúr intervenes). And we're aware of that, and we're doing it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to Congressman Volner, although I do not want to interfere in the affairs of Budapest, and this is also true for other comments like this: in 98 it was one of the first measures to stop the steps relating to Metro 4 at that time, because in the spring of 98 Péter Medgyessy signed by Deputy Prime Minister on the last afternoon, which was intended for metro 4 was not included in the Hungarian budget, so he made an unjustified and uncovered commitment. Then this subway was built. You could argue if it was supposed to be built there, but it's been built. It is possible to argue whether to build more stations at the end and at the beginning, but it has been built, it is there, it cannot be plugged, it can be eliminated; we have it, we should be happy about it, and we should think about how to use it in the future for the benefit of Budapest and the whole country. It's a shame to think about building something where they're building, otherwise there's always centuries of debate about whether something had to be built or not built there. It has been built, it has become very beautiful, it has become good, our task is to ensure that Budapest and the whole country can use it properly, and to be a base for possible development in the future. Finally, but not least, and with this I would like to respond to the sentences of my fellow Member Mesterházy, you are absolutely right that infrastructure development does not depend on four years. We build roads and railways for 50 to 100 years or more, so we need a process. I am pleased to say that we have actually had this for many decades, these programs run under different titles, there have always been such programs, there are already. The situation at present - as you know precisely - is that the fundamental financial base of the development of Hungarian infrastructure has been EU funds over the last decade and until 2020 and therefore, in the period between 2014 and 2020, we had to take European resources into account and take into account. Accordingly, there is a road construction programme between 2014 and 2020, which will be implemented by this government, I very much hope, in support of the opposition, because this infrastructure development is important for you, too. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the statements that are in agreement with the substance of the bill, and I would like to ask you, as I mentioned in the introduction, that those who have proposals to improve it should submit them, we are ready to discuss them in substance. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Varga Simeon applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-134	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCVI on national assets follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. T/7389 by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As the initiator of the amendment of the law, as an advocate, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee, as the author of the bill, held a detailed debate and presented it to Parliament as an independent committee motion for discussion. The system of minority self-government established in 1994 is an important institution of the rule of law, a pillar of society, and a representative of democratic community self-government in addition to local authorities, with the aim of strengthening Hungary's cultural autonomy as a national minority. The system of minority self-governments has essentially fulfilled its expectations, but practical experience has brought to light regulatory contradictions and shortcomings that required a comprehensive review of the laws. In order to further strengthen the cultural autonomy of nationalities while preserving the results achieved, legislation needs to be further developed and brought into line. The 2011 national asset. CXCVI. The purpose of the bill to amend law before us is to ensure that the institutions of national authorities, their associations and national authorities, as bodies performing public tasks, are defined in the law as possible trustees of national assets. Article 3 of the current law. In paragraph 1, paragraph 19, there was no mention of nationality authorities and their associations and institutions in the potential category of trustees. The laws in force thus adversely affect these bodies which perform the public service mission. With regard to property transferred to asset management before the entry into force of the Act, although the trusting law of the national authorities remained on the basis of the transitional provision of the Act, the nationality authorities which were trustees remained in their capacity as trustees, but under the current rules the intention to amend the existing contract cannot be implemented and no new contract can be concluded. [[16.40]] In order to avoid this interpretation of the application of the law, we are convinced that the proposal for an amendment, which has just been tabled, removes this legislative failure by naming the national authorities, their associations and institutions as trustees in the law, given that, by the way, the municipalities and associations of nationalities are a transparent organisation. Dear Parliament, Hungary's Fundamental Law states that the state and the local government owns national property. The law was adopted with a view to achieving exploitation for Community needs, the conservation of natural resources, the preservation and protection of national values and the needs of future generations, and to ensuring that the management of national assets is carried out in a transparent manner in accordance with the requirements of responsible management. In the general provisions of the National Property Act, the requirements for the protection and responsible management of national assets and the scope of national assets have also been defined. The definition of national assets has set the objective of ensuring that the principle of sharing public tasks by the State and the municipalities is respected. Here, too, ethnic self-governments must be understood, if not described. The primary purpose of national assets is to ensure the performance of public tasks. The protection of national assets should be ensured by the strictest possible regulation, but reasonable and reasonable management should also be taken into account. The principle of national wealth provision or the management of property includes the provision of public interest, the fulfilment of a common need and the main provision of public service. National wealth management requires cost-saving, value-saving and value-enhancing operation and exploitation, which has been carefully met by national authorities, institutions and associations for more than twenty years. The current legislation of the National Property Act defines the public sector to whom national assets can be transferred into asset management. Here we have come to the point where this proposed amendment of the law lies before this House. By creating an institution of spokespersons in the Parliament, we are now proposing to clarify and supplement legislation defining the life and future of nationalities, hoping for their agreement and support. Ladies and gentlemen, The right of trustee is a very broad, quasi-occupational right, which is granted to public and municipal operators, the practicality of which is that these operators are responsible for the management and preservation of the assets of the State. Article 3 on national assets The definitions that help to apply the legislation are listed in § 1 (1). Article 3 Paragraph 1 (1) (1) (a) states that the minority self-government is also a transparent organisation, but in paragraph 19 of the same paragraph, the minority self-government is no longer named in the trustee's circle. Although other legislation can derive property management rights, the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Act No. 3 Pursuant to paragraph 3 (b), local self-governments and national self-governments and their associations form the elements of the municipal system of public finances, so they are entitled to asset management as budgetary bodies. In addition, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 124. According to Paragraph 1 (1) of Article 2 (1) of the Act, the property of the national government is intended to cover the public affairs of nationality. According to paragraph 2 of the Act on National Property on the property of the national self-government, the provisions of Article 125 of the Act on National Property apply to local authorities. With the derogation provided for in paragraph 1. By linking the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 it can be concluded that in Hungary's public finances, local authorities and national authorities have the same rights and obligations, because they are regulated as uniform by the Public Finance Act. Thus, it is reasonable and does not require any particular legal deduction that the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Act No. 3 As regards state and municipal property, it is also entitled to the management of state and municipal assets by the local government, their associations or institutions. In the case of the latter, an entity which is 100% owned by the national government may also be a trustee. However, this deficiency, which does not mention national governments, associations and institutions, gives us many difficulties in implementing the law in practice. The proposed amendment, which has just been tabled, removes this legislative failure by naming national authorities, their associations and institutions as trustees in the law, so that we will have sound and transparent regulation in the future. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the legislative amendment tabled by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание.
u2015-11-18-136	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-18-137	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's policy is particularly important to ensure that the state carries out its tasks in the interests of society at the highest possible professional level, with outstanding efficiency, with due care and awareness. This endeavour must always prevail, whether it is the will of a Hungarian citizen or of any other nationality. The Preamble of the National Rights Act states that it is the responsibility and responsibility of the current government to preserve the specific culture of nationalities who have been living with Hungarians for centuries, to nurture and develop their mother tongues, and to ensure a wide range of individual and community rights. Hungary protects nationalities, ensures the care of their own culture, the use of their mother tongue, the mother tongue education, the right to use their own language, their collective participation in public life, and promotes their cultural autonomy, guarantees the right to self-government and self-government of their real communities. In this spirit, the government intends to support individual communities to a greater extent than in previous years. A tangible example of this is the increase in the budget support of Hungarian nationalities by more than HUF 2 billion in 2016. In addition to increasing financial support, it is, of course, necessary to support the work of national authorities or their institutions, which are representative of nationalities. Under the law on nationalities adopted in 2011, national authorities may establish and operate institutions for education, education and culture in order to achieve their educational and educational objectives and to strengthen their cultural autonomy, and may take over the maintenance of institutions established by other maintainers. In the past years, the national minority authorities have undertaken to maintain a number of cultural institutions, while the municipal minority authorities have taken over the maintenance of several ethnic public education institutions from local authorities and the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre. In many cases, the institutions were located in real estate granted by the State or local authorities to property or asset management. However, the Act on National Property, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, was a national property right for the management of assets, limiting the previous legislation, leaving out the national self-governments and their associations and institutions. With regard to property transferred to asset management before the entry into force of the National Property Act, the right of trustee of the national authorities remains with regard to the protection of rights and obligations acquired legally and in good faith, but no new property management contract can be concluded, and the existing contracts cannot be modified, so there is currently no legal possibility to redirect changes in recent years or any modification needs that have arisen. [[16.50]] This makes it very difficult for certain ethnic institutions to operate. The National Assembly Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has initiated the corresponding amendment of the National Property Act in order to remedy the problems that have arisen in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We agree with the objectives of the bill and support its adoption. In our view, the bill deserves the support of all parliamentary parties with a view to the fate and prosperity of the nationalities in Hungary, in view of its general objective, which goes beyond daily political issues. Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable Parliament and my fellow Members that T/7389. To discuss bill No 1 and to support the efforts of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, considered and recognised by the Government, too. Thank you for your attention and for your support again. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-18-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, CXCVII of 2011 on national assets We have a bill on the amendment of the law before us. The aim of the proposal is to define the national authorities, their associations and the institutions of national authorities as public bodies, as possible trustees of national assets in the law. The bill was submitted to Parliament by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on 10 November 2015. In Hungary, under the law on the rights of nationalities, there are a total of 13 minorities, which also have a minority self-government. These municipalities carry out a number of public tasks and are therefore justified in supporting their activities. As there is no current presence of national authorities and associations of national authorities in the potential group of trustees, the current legislation has a negative impact on the activities of these bodies with a public service mission. In many cases, their operation is carried out in real estate owned by the State and invested in asset management, so the initiative before us, according to which national self-governments should also be named as trustees in the National Property Act, is fully justified. This will strengthen the ownership position of the national authorities and provide them with a stable financial base, thereby recognising their work and their operation in the field of public tasks. Given that these amendments to the bill, the law on the rights of nationalities, are essential, I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-18-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am very sympathetic to the work of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary's legal development, because I think that the operation of this committee, as an important part of the institution of minority advocates, reveals a lot of dysfunctions that everyone can have in common interest in improving. It's one of those areas that's in front of us right now. The committee itself has put before the House a number of legislative proposals adopted by a large majority by Parliament, and it can be said that consensus has been found on these issues; with the exception of one, all of the Committee's proposals have been like this. I hope that this will also belong to all the categories except one, which will further increase this kind of consensus, as the Hungarian Socialist Party agrees with this proposal. To put it simply, what is this about? It is about the fact that the law is currently creating an abnormal situation, and the committee proposes that the law should meet common sense, be normal. If we briefly summarise what this is about: local governments should have the right to manage property, which is controlled or maintained. When you think about it a little bit, you get to that, of course, it's natural that this condition is so. It is not natural that this condition is not so. I think it is very right that we have this question before us, and it is important that it can change. Because it can be said that many municipalities maintain institutions and perform such tasks, but I am also afraid that, by the way, Mr Varga Simeon and the committee are concerned that the survival of the law may be a barrier to these municipalities doing well their activities as institutions. It is therefore necessary and appropriate for this legislation to change. I can certainly support it myself, and the Hungarian Socialist Party supports both the concrete text of the proposal and its direction. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Our Fundamental Law states that nationalities are part of the state, and as a representative of Óbuda, I know what nationalities mean in a small local community. We also have a number of minority self-governments, and I have to say that many nationalities add to the cultural values of the local community that they have become indispensable. Therefore, I think it is right that national authorities should maintain institutions and that it is also right that we weed out the unnecessary, bad regulations that have otherwise remained unwittingly in them from the legal system. Therefore, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I can say that we support this proposal and ask the other groups to support it. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-18-142	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-18-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Speaker, Mr Secretary of State, the keynote speakers have practically told us everything about this amendment. On behalf of KDNP, I can say that this bill is very important because it seeks to remedy a disadvantage. The KDNP fully agrees with the intention of the nationality committee, adopts the bill and asks all our fellow Members to adopt this bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-144	I now give the floor to István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-18-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Like my fellow Member Kiss, I would like to start by welcoming the work of the Committee on Nationalities. I think that it is very forward-looking and, in some respects, exemplary at Central European level, on the one hand, that this committee may already exist, that, at the time, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, including Jobbik, also decided to vote that this kind of presence of nationalities should also be ensured in the Hungarian Parliament. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members and, in particular, of the Government, to the work of the committee of nationalities. I will do this personally, or through my colleagues. Let us also take into account issues which may not or may not be present here, the public of the National Assembly, but are formulated by the minority advocates or the minority committee, or are discussed at the meetings of the Committee, whether the situation already mentioned in national education or, for example, the national programmes of public media, public media, and the problems and comments that have arisen in this regard. [[17.00]] Mr Secretary of State gave a long list of the 2011 nationality law. We supported that ourselves back then. We endorsed and agreed that national authorities should be given greater rights and opportunities, for example, to maintain and operate their institutions. We also agree on this principle, but we also believe that this is a good example here in the Carpathian Basin in Central Europe. This law is, in fact, nothing but a sort of correction. We are faced with only one codification problem, as the intention of the Parliament was already in place when the law of 2011 was drawn up in order to ensure that the national minority authorities received the maintenance of the institutions, which, of course, must be accompanied by the responsibility to maintain these institutions. It is sad that this responsibility sometimes appears in the form of a kind of criminal liability, as we have heard a lot about it recently from the Roma minority self-government's home; I would like to make this clear. In this regard, of course, the question arises again, which I myself have asked here in Parliament several times in the last five years when we discussed laws and proposals concerning nationalities, and this question sounds like where Flórián Farkas is. My fellow Members, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, are regularly disturbed when Jobbik calls your Roma representatives "Gypsies of honor." But this question needs to be asked again why there are two Roma representatives in the Fidesz faction, if they never, once, even on a random level, participate in Parliament's meetings on which we are otherwise discussing the affairs of the community they represent. Flórian Farkas, as former president of the National Roma Municipality, as a Roma representative of the Fidesz faction - but for the sake of fairness, let us also mention the name of Congressman Varga - although I know that he has a number of tasks and problems, he has been reported in detail by the press recently, and it would be a dog's duty to be here at this meeting, even if it could have been the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction. But it's not my job to decide that for you. In any case, the question is torturing: where is Flórian Farkas? I would like to return to the 2011 nationality law and say that we consider it important and we are proud that we have also contributed to it in our own way. I personally made amendments to this law at the time to extend minority language use, the possibility of a native language administration. This was also an important element of this law. The other important element is, in fact, the creation of this kind of narrow but undoubtedly existing cultural autonomy, which has resulted in a significantly wider opportunity for national authorities to operate their own institutions than they already have, which obviously play a decisive role in preserving national identity, in developing national identity, with a particular focus on educational and cultural institutions. I think that this should serve as a good example for neighbouring countries, as well as for neighbouring countries, for those countries which, unlike Hungary, do not recognise national minority rights or, if they are recognised, limit them to the level of individual rights alone. Of course, Jobbik will support this proposal, and as I have heard from my fellow Members before me, it is likely that a broad consensus will be attached to this proposal. Although we have heard this in detail, it is actually just a small system correction, since many other relevant laws already recognize this right and opportunity as natural. We will therefore support the proposal ourselves. And for my part, I urge my fellow ethnic advocates to say with good heart that if they feel that laws, proposals that, in most cases, adversely affect them rather than paying attention or not paying attention, or if they miss out on something, they should feel free to say that they are living, existing and active here in the National Assembly, as we are regularly encouraging the government on our part, and we warn them if we consider that a law, which makes an unjustified distinction between Hungarian and Hungarian, makes an unjustified distinction, for example, between Hungarian and foreign Hungarian citizens. Of course, most of these legislative proposals or laws do not make these distinctions intentionally or intentionally. The legislative process is complicated. A number of proposals, a number of laws, which are linked to a number of other laws, are being proposed. I think it is important for everyone to be able to identify, to recommend these shortcomings to our attention in the areas that they deal with in more detail. This just happened. This small adjustment will be made, and we will, of course, give our support with a good heart, as we have already done, and in similar cases we will probably continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the speakers.]]
u2015-11-18-146	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group is not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I don't see a candidate. Would anyone else like to comment on the debate? [[There's no candidate.]] Nobody. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon.
u2015-11-18-147	Mr President, Dear Parliament, It was a clear breakthrough and a positive shift in the life of nationalities living in Hungary, when we were guaranteed parliamentary representation, so we have the opportunity to express our opinion. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary decided with 12 unanimous votes on the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. T/7389. on the submission of bill No 1. The proposed amendment, which has just been tabled, removes this legislative deficiency by naming national self-governments and their associations and institutions as trustees in the National Property Act. I am very pleased that such a consensus has been reached here in this House on the bill amendment proposal tabled by the committee. I would also like to point out, and I do not wish to frighten Members, that we have a few other plans for the national minority law that we intend to submit to this House. I trust that with a similar consensus and agreement, we will be supported by all the factions and the government, that what we have thought about, and what is suitable for our operation, our lives here in Hungary, we can always ensure for ourselves. Thank you again for your attention, and I hope that you will support our committee's proposal in the vote. Thank you.
u2015-11-18-148	The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act 1 and Act LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. By representatives of Péter Csizi, Erik Bánki and Imre Vas T/7406. The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-18-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us seeks to resolve the situation where a claim is seized in the event of a criminal lock order, such as the closure under the Law on Criminal Procedure, and as a claim that has already become due has been paid into the enforcement deposit account under cover insurance. In such a case, if the original creditor were to enforce the claim, whether in an enforcement or liquidation procedure, the debtor would in essence perform it twice and initiate a separate procedure to repay the amount not due to the creditor. The proposal states that, in the bankruptcy proceedings, these claims are recorded among the contested claims by the administrator and that the situation is an obstacle to the initiation of winding-up proceedings. [[17.10]] If the proceedings are already at a stage where winding up has already been ordered, the court shall suspend the winding-up proceedings of its own motion until it is decided in criminal proceedings whether to dissolve the court lock or to decide whether to pay the claim. In these cases, the secondment of the liquidator should not be withdrawn due to the suspension of the procedure, and the bill regulates the rights and obligations of the liquidator during the suspension period. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement In order to prevent the transfer order from being made in the case indicated above, the debtor does not participate in the proceedings for the order, so that he cannot make use of his objection to the fulfilment of the claim in the meantime. This is the simple situation that the bill seeks to resolve, which seems to be a technical amendment, but for all those involved in these proceedings who were forced to make double payments in previous periods before the technical amendment, and then to take back their own claims from the fees they have paid double, this would now be settled by this law, and I think that it can bring about a much clearer and much simpler process later. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-150	I'll ask if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-18-151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the bill tabled by my fellow Members, which contains rules governing the enforceability of claims closed in criminal proceedings in the context of winding-up or judicial enforcement proceedings. The bill concerns and complements the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and the law on judicial enforcement. Under the Criminal Procedure Act, the placing of a claim under a lock suspends the right to dispose of the claim, which means that the claimant cannot have the claim. The purpose of the lockdown is to ensure that the confiscation of property or civil claims are covered in ongoing criminal proceedings. Pursuant to the law on judicial enforcement, the execution of the lock falls within the jurisdiction of the executing officer, who takes the measures provided for in the law, depending on the type of property placed under the lock. At present, neither the bankruptcy law nor the law on judicial enforcement settles the question of whether the insolvency of the debtor can be initiated on the basis of an outstanding claim in the criminal case, whether such a claim can be enforced as a creditor's claim during the ongoing winding-up proceedings or whether it is possible to recover such a claim in the context of judicial enforcement. In the view of the Government, the claim closed in the criminal case should also be classified as a contested claim in the course of the bankruptcy proceedings, since it is a claim that exists, but its legal fate depends essentially on the outcome of the criminal proceedings. The bill also lays down detailed rules on the enforceability of the closed claim in winding-up proceedings and in judicial enforcement proceedings. In the event of winding-up proceedings, the bill clearly distinguishes between cases where winding-up proceedings have not yet been initiated or when they are already under way. In the case of winding-up proceedings which have not yet been initiated, the bill states that the holder of the closed claim may not initiate winding-up on the basis of the outstanding claim. In addition, it may not claim creditors if the amount of the debt placed under the lock has been paid into the executive deposit account. In the event of such an application for winding up, the court shall suspend the proceedings on request or of its own motion. The bill also settles the case where the winding-up proceedings are already under way, but it was ordered on the basis of a creditor's claim which was closed in the winding-up process. In such a case, winding-up proceedings shall be suspended by the court of their own motion. The suspension shall be without prejudice to the obligations of the liquidator, but may sell the debtor's assets only with the permission of the court in order to avoid loss of property. According to the bill, a claim placed under a criminal lock cannot be enforced in court enforcement proceedings if the amount of the seized claim has been paid into the enforcement deposit account. The purpose of the bill is to avoid double settlement by the debtor in the case of claims seized in criminal proceedings and paid to the enforcement deposit account. If, in parallel with the closure, the claim can be enforced in liquidation proceedings or in enforcement proceedings, the debtor will make double payments, so that the debtor would be forced to initiate a separate procedure to repay the amount not owed to the creditor. The bill clearly settles this issue, aligning the rules of the bankruptcy law and the law on judicial enforcement in respect of closed claims. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government supports the bill, the relevant legislation contains harmonised, reasonable, rational provisions that facilitate and harmonise the case law. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-18-152	Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. I'll ask the Fidesz faction if anyone wants to comment as a lead speaker. [[Erik Bánki: No.]] There's no candidate. KDNP is not present, so obviously not. Then I give the floor to Mr. László György Lukács, the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2015-11-18-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear tableds, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to these relatively short sections of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and the amendment to the law on judicial enforcement, it is worth noting that not so long ago, in October, when we talked about the institution of private bankruptcy, the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings was changed in a comprehensive, essentially larger volume, or affected by changes. It is therefore particularly interesting that this legislation is being changed once again on the basis of individual proposals, of course, with a reference to a failure of law by the authors, which I have tried to look for in practice, and I have tried to find it either through court-specific decisions or even guidelines which would have drawn attention to this existing - otherwise actually existing - judicial crisis, which would have shown that, in the course of bankruptcy proceedings, where appropriate, there is indeed a situation, a burning situation, which must now be addressed so quickly and with the motion of individual representatives, and which the government has otherwise failed to remedy, when it has otherwise changed the bankruptcy procedure itself and the winding-up procedure. Well, the result of my research and my searches was that, as I mentioned, I could not find an otherwise burning situation that would have come up in the case law or revealed an unresolved legal vacuum for a number of years, so, in any case, it was only good faith that we were confident that the amendment brought here by the authors was, however, a legal vacuum that would cause serious problems for individuals seeking rights and, where appropriate, legal persons in the operation of economic and commercial life, liquidation proceedings and bankruptcy proceedings. In any case, it is worth making clear that, in the social sense of responsibility, when one talks about what is social responsibility or what is responsibility, we are talking about triggering a potentially dangerous attitude to society, and, of course, from a civil law point of view, the emphasis is not on retaliative sanctions, but rather on the application of financial sanctions that can restore, so to speak, re-enforce this relationship. This is because the belief in economic marketing must be strengthened, because in economic traffic and trade, the mutual trust of the parties is violated - and in many cases we can assess that those who are in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings are somehow in a state of resatisfaction, at some level, in breach of responsibility, and that they cannot comply with the undertaking - in these relations it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the faith in the market. [[17.20]] This bill, by the way, has its points, its means of restoring or rehabilitating this damage, let's say, at some level. Although it is not a violation or a breach of law, it is capable of restoring all the loss of trust, which has also been the subject of bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and, in line with this, the rules of judicial enforcement. The principle of reorganisation is also an important principle. It also seems to be in line with this bill, so its provisions, which, by the way, also employs or makes applicable a completely new type of legal institution, I believe to be in line with the application test that will be waiting for it. Here again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about the presentation of individual representatives, it would have been good to see - and perhaps the rapporteur will be able to report on it - that he will also impose a burden on the courts at some level, or give the court the task of what kind of case-law comments the National Court Office or, for example, the Curia has in this regard. Of course, the Secretary of State may be able to respond to this, because obviously this legislation will be easy to apply, and it will also be applied smoothly in court enforcement if the courts themselves agree with the objective that is in it and can fit in with their system of organisation. So I would like to say once again that I did not find the need for these amendments in practice, but I believe and trust in good faith that this is necessary to fill this gap, and that the provisions of the bill will be technically appropriate, so both the bankruptcy law and the law on judicial enforcement will be amended accordingly. Maybe it's the 38/A. § new as an addition, it may have been technically or dogmatically incorporated into the legislation, but there I feel that it is sticking out of the provisions that are as much as 38. If we look at the legal institution itself and look at the objective it has set itself, the objective which is quite difficult to understand in its text, but which is much more excavable from the explanatory statement, because it is also part of its criticism that, unfortunately, with a good tradition in the text of the law itself, in addition to the practically difficult legal reasoning in bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, thank God, the explanatory statement is, therefore, clearer and more visible, what was the purpose of the legislator. I think that, however, if there is a way and opportunity, even the government should pay a little more attention to the fact that, if there is such a legal vacuum, then, for example, present these amendments, when there is a comprehensive review of the bankruptcy procedure in relation to your private bankruptcy, and can come in with it, so to speak, making that goal a little salad. Overall, the proposal, I believe, can be supported and I will try to pay attention to what you may say in response to what is, however, what are the situations in real life that underpin this legal vacuum, then, of course, it can be considered even more in light of that, but otherwise, I do not think that Jobbik will be able to support this bill, and if it is really urgent, then it should be adopted and incorporated as soon as possible in these three laws. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-154	The MSZP, LMP does not wish to comment on the speakerial debate, so we have reached the end of the speakerial debate. There is no other speaker, but I will ask if anyone would like to comment. [[No signal.]] There's no candidate. So I will conclude the general debate and ask the rapporteur, Erik Bánki, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to repeat what was said in the introduction again, but I would just like to draw attention to a few more details here in order to conclude the general debate. So the purpose of this bill, which has just been discussed by the House, is to see whether amendments from the pro-government or opposition side may be received, essentially to close the gaps that the bill seeks to address in practical application. First of all, the most important problem that the question addresses is: during the criminal lockdown, the debtor's assets, when they are closed, including the debtor's claims against third parties, are secured by the seizure of the amount of which, when due, the third party must pay his creditor. In the event of being placed under the lock, this payment shall be made to the deposit account of the State for that purpose. If, in spite of this, the debtor tries to enforce the claim in liquidation proceedings against the third debtor, the proposal provides that the court does not order liquidation, but suspends the proceedings until it has been decided in criminal proceedings whether the closure is lifted or if the court takes an enforcement decision on the payment of the claim secured under lock. I think, once again, that the proposal contains technical amendments which facilitates the application of the law and the maladministration that have so far been the legal gaps in the previous law, which the proposal seeks to eliminate. Once again, I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-156	The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1991 XXXIV on the organisation of gambling. Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. a general debate on the amendment of Law No 1 of 2004 on Sport until closure. T/738 by the Economic Committee The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, Chairman of the Economic Committee, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-18-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although this package contains amendments to several legislative proposals, I believe that they are essentially minor amendments, but still amendments which again seek to achieve the objective which the legislator has set itself when adopting the law more effectively and more effectively than ever. XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling The amended provision of Law 1 ensures that the public toy organizer can deduct the consideration of a contract concluded under Law I of 2004 on sport from the distance gambling tax on lottery and betting games within the period of limitation of the right to tax. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. The legislative amendment regulates the financial implementation of sport development programmes and the guarantee conditions for their planning. What does that mean in practice? In the framework of the corporate tax relief, organisations supporting sport are entitled to pay the tax, not in the budget, at the rate of 70% of their tax, on the basis of the request of clubs or associations. The condition is that the professional associations issue a subsidy certificate in which they consider it feasible and professionally correct in the particular field of sport, qualifying for the applicant's sport programme, professional programme and development and development of facilities. So far, after the submission of the application, the applicants have started to seek out in practice the supporters from whom they have been able to implement these programmes. In many cases, the practical example was that although there was good intentions on the part of the applicants and on the part of the supporters, they failed to gather as many supporters as they could have implemented these programmes. The current legislation aims at nothing else, and the amendment of the legislation aims at nothing more than to have a preliminary consultation with the supporters in order to bring together and draw down the needs for the development or operating costs of the proposals submitted by the supporters' circle. [[17 .30]] This is, in part, a guarantee to the sports associations that, on the basis of the certificates they issue, those investments and those improvements, those sports programmes will be implemented, and I think, for Mr State Secretary, that they will also provide a guarantee to the budget that the amount of aid actually issued to draw tax support will most likely be drawn in that year or in the following years. Obviously, in terms of operating costs, they have a one-year opportunity to do so, 3+1 years in terms of improvements, so I really think that it will make investments more predictable on the one hand and that it will make the expenditure side more predictable for the budget by means of tax deductions. Act I of 2004 on Sport 36. Paragraph 1 of the Act states since 1 January 2012 that the licensing of sports activities and sports competitions through television, radio and other electronic, digital techniques, such as internet broadcasting, recording and commercial exploitation, as well as the display, organisation and conduct of the competition system, constitutes a right of property. The current text of the Act does not define advertising and marketing rights in relation to sport activities with sufficient depth as a right of property, but it is clear that these rights are at least as closely linked to sports activities, sports events as sports broadcasting and competition organisation rights, which have already been treated as a recognised property right. On the basis of the above, the Sports Act 36 is justified. § (1) to make it clear that advertising and marketing rights related to sport constitute property rights of equal value in the same way as those relating to mediation and the publication, organisation and conduct of the competition system. The amendment of the sport law also ensures the internal coherence of the law, contains clarification of a legal nature and ensures uniform use of terms. So, as I said, it is basically a matter of clarification that came from the earlier spirit of the law. The application of the law, based on the case law, has revealed in everyday life that these wordings are not necessarily accurate, that not everyone can necessarily interpret them in the way that the legislator would otherwise wish, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-18-158	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State of Péter Banai on behalf of the government.
u2015-11-18-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The government agrees with the direction and intention of the proposal submitted, so I can basically join President Erik Bánki's words. The amendment of the law on the organisation of gambling is Szerencségy Zrt. affects the right to deduct from the toy tax. According to the rules in force, the public toy organizer may deduct from its toy tax the consideration of the contract of use with sports associations, mainly linked to its sports betting activity. The amendment clarifies the concept of property rights on sport, as a result of which advertising and marketing rights are also named in the definition of sport activities and sports competitions, such as commercial exploitation of matches and property rights. Gambling Company. the provision granting the right to deduct may therefore also cover the consideration of contracts concluded for advertising and marketing rights in sports competitions. The amending provision requires the public organizer to exercise the right of deduction in proportion to gambling and not in aggregate. This technique ensures that toy tax payments are recorded and traceable in accordance with budgetary and general government rules. Finally, the amendment also makes it clear that the State organizer may exercise the right to deduct in the period of limitation of the right to tax, thereby making the right of deduction not enforceable in the relevant month of the period of limitation enforceable in subsequent accounting periods. The bill regulates the guarantee conditions for ensuring and planning the financial implementation of sport development programmes in relation to corporate tax. In this context, the proposal adds a new condition to the conditions for the application of the tax relief which may be used to support visual team sports. According to this, the donor taxpayer can benefit from tax relief only if it makes a statement of support to the supported entity. The letter of intent to support will not only be a condition for the use of the tax relief, but will also be a condition for issuing the aid certificate. These amendments make sport development programmes financially more transparent and secure, as President Erik Bánki pointed out. The provisions of the proposal to amend the Sports Act include, on the one hand, procedural clarification relating to the visual team sport aid scheme in the context of the practical application of law and, on the other hand, provisions to ensure the internal coherence of the law. The bill clarifies the procedure under which the professional associations of visual team sports carry out their statutory tasks related to the control of the aid scheme. Accordingly, the amendment states, in the same way as the original legislative intention, that programmes from visual team sport support are not controlled by public authorities. Furthermore, the amendment of the Sports Act aims at technical clarifications and to supplement certain elements of sports competitions that can be used as property rights. On this basis, I ask that you support the bill and accept it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-160	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. There is no Fidesz candidate for this, so I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-11-18-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, Ladies and gentlemen, Interestingly, it is possible to see a salad package so short, since I do not necessarily read out of it these intentions, which have been made by the authors. However, I would like to start from another point, as Erik Bánki also started by amending the corporate tax relief scheme. By amending a system that has affected the lives of sports clubs for five years, it also affects the range of visual team sports. I think that this could have been a matter that could have been a matter of consensus, because this is how it started, and I think that the first proposals found a great consensus in the Parliament. There was such a system before 2010, a system operating with a similar corporate tax advantage for theatre and cinema was established, and I think that this could trigger an area. We had criticisms then, and we explained why this does not apply, for example, to the entire Olympic sports sector, or why it does not apply to any sports association that can collect supporters in this way. You insisted on five visual team sports. Then the system debuted horribly, as in its first year, the news was that there was more to the association of Felcsút, football club, along with the replacements, than the other four non-football visual team sports and the MOB combined. They could say that this would serve supplies, but otherwise it was clearly built into a stadium, where otherwise an NB I football club could play. Now, I'm just saying this because when we talk about the amendment of the legislation, yes, there are clubs that have applied, yes, there are clubs that have been given a larger framework by the individual trade unions, and then they couldn't upload these frameworks, because at the moment they didn't have them, at the time of the application, where they're going to get these corporate tax opportunities, from which companies they're collecting, I think it's a little unfair. Because the blind can see that companies with corporate tax obligations in this country, well, yes, they may be directed to certain places, so which associations should benefit from these Tao discounts. So, obviously, to the smaller clubs to which this proposal was originally supposed to be addressed, it would have originally targeted the replacement of the five visual team sports, so there was much less. I think this is already a serious loss of confidence in this respect, and it is no better than my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, said that the national boiler room will be built in Felcsú, so I think that this type of problem will not help sport. By the way, of course, it is possible to agree that an association should have a clear idea of where it will take these opportunities from at the time of the application. [[17.40]] At the same time, I would say that it is mainly rural clubs that are involved in the possibility of replenishing existing frameworks. So let me call home here, so, for example, Diósgyőri VTK has opportunities in the coming years that I think it can be a good success, and it is right to build a suitable replacement centre in Miskolc, but there is still a need for a set of corporate tax advantages. So here I would suggest that, by the way, while we are changing, we look at the possibility of involving Olympic sports, we are trying to broaden the possibility of corporate tax concessions in terms of sport, not just restricting it to the five visual team sports. This obviously has budgetary implications, and I do not dispute this, of course, but I think that the five visual team sports carry this prime so much that elsewhere a few million, a few ten million forints would mean a great deal in a sport, even in sports that are otherwise Olympic success sports, kayak-kenu, swimming, I could list the traditional Hungarian sports where this could be important. Obviously, this is not part of the proposal, but it could be part of it. Szerencségy Zrt. was also named by Secretary of State, Erik Bánki was a little more mysterious in this regard, because of course there are technical amendments that would not be eligible. I'd even think about it if it weren't for this particular first stage. Because what I'm saying is that I don't see Szerencségy Zrt. written here, I see a gambling organizer written down, who has a toy tax liability, and let's say, by the way, he's paying for his use of his name, so he's actually paying for a property-value right, and if I understand correctly, he can write it off from his obligation to pay a toy tax. This may direct certain things at the SZRT, I do not dispute or make this clearer, but, thanks to you, a toy organizer, gambling organizer may be something else, especially in these areas, which are listed in the proposal. I would not comment on it, there are serious public debates here, and I can list those who are constantly being attacked with these questions from Andy Vajna. So I'd like to get an answer in the next few days, weeks, on behalf of my faction, if it makes something clearer, let's say, in the life of the SZRT, it's possible to put it that way, I think. If, by the way, you open a gate and reduce the obligation to pay taxes to the incriminated gentleman or billionaires, then don't be mad at us, let this affect us. We do not want to reduce taxes on them, but we are talking about, for example, one-key personal income tax, the minimum wage with a 16-percent tax rate, while before 2010 it was zero-key, reducing the tax burden on millions, hard-lived millions, not billionaires! We should definitely put this behind us now, but I hope that you can reassure me either, Mr Secretary of State or Erik Bánki, that this is not the intention of the proposal. Then, of course, you have to be precise in my opinion. Speaking of a big state company, let me give you an exercise in this. Obviously, the aid scheme of the SZRT does not dissipate any doubts. I think that public companies must take a competitive approach to Hungarian sport. So it is not a good practice that, in previous years, even MVM has a completely inextricable way, without any clear policy, support policy, say, a 10-billion-dollar sponsorship and advertising framework - specifically, once again, I am thinking of MVM - and in this there is a club that can get money, support, without any logic, some that can't. For example, the MVM specifically operates heating plants in my constituency in Miskolc, and the fact is that it supports the life of the sport in Miskolc or even cultural life only in a fraction. So I suggest that we do not do so in the life of SZRT or MVM, but that it is clear how and transparently to show how Hungarian sports are supported. At the same time, I am holding on to my proposal, which is not part of the proposal on a number of written questions, of course, but I would like to say that I hold my proposal so that MVM supports sport in Miskolc in an appropriate way. There are a number of sports associations that are proven, I am thinking of DVTK, the newly attached Miskolc Ice Bears, which now runs under the name of DVTK Ice Bears. I think these clubs deserve it, too, and there are a lot of other clubs, like MEAFC or other sports. Yes, there is also a need for this type of support in the countryside. Obviously, I'll keep fighting in this. With regard to the specific proposal, I say that I think it is possible to make a proposal that is acceptable, but to do so, the intentions of the first stage must be clarified: property rights, the identity of a gambling organizer, whom this proposal is aimed at; it certainly does not give me any comfort and I ask you to clarify this part of the proposal. Because once again, it is not a matter of supporting billionaires from the Hungarian budget, but people who are already in difficulty. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-18-162	There are no comments from KDNP. I now give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-18-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The pro-government faction was severely depleted, narrowed down to only one; it seems that the faction is not able to secure two thirds even at this late hour. In any case, Congressman Erik Bánki holds the fort brave. [[Defiance.]] What I can tell you about this: recently, we don't have to go too far in our memory, last week we've amended the Gambling Act in such a way that this week the government is going to touch it again with another amendment, and it's back in the law. What happened last week? The government has made the income from the online casino game tax-free, and this is worth paralleling with what millions of people live in Hungary every day. It means that 50 percent of a working man's money is taken by the state in the form of various public burdens, taxes, contributions, other things that burden a labor wage. Compared to that, my fellow Members, who are gambling, can get away with being tax-free, taking home the prize in this way. Why is it that the government constantly changes the law on gambling in such a strange way? To whom does this favor? Who is the entrepreneur who can continue to enrich the promise of tax-free income, and can increase the number of billions? This entrepreneur is called Andy Vajna, he works in the Prime Minister's immediate environment, he is the government commissioner of the Orbán government, and he is also the man whose enrichment the Orbán government constantly ensures that, for example, large international companies can now operate their online casino games in Hungary only through Andy Vajna's company, because the government has amended the gambling law in such a way that only those who have a casino concession can have access to online gambling. This man's name is Andy Vajna. Obviously, it must be a coincidence that so many talented and successful people begin to get rich in the Prime Minister's environment these years. I do, however, see some tenential wealth growth process. This usually shows that if you're friends with the Orbán government, somehow you'll get billions of public funds. Well, that's what happens in this case. The law we are talking about here concerns between HUF 200 billion and HUF 300 billion per year in sport, fellow Members. This is what goes on to support sport in different forms. It is worth seeing how we spend this money and how it is used. First of all, it must be noted that the amount that we have now spent in a similar way is roughly double the higher education budget; in different ways, from tao money, from state budget resources, from which money goes into Hungarian sports. Of course, we do not feel sorry for the money from Hungarian sports, and what I am asking of the government is that if we spend the money on something, we try to raise supplies within sports for example, bring up certain sports and make them internationally competitive, then let us do this in a way that is dictated by professional decency, i.e. by a completely clear indicator, with measured performance. [[17.50]] It was interesting, for example, that last week, the same situation as we now see in this case has been repeated in the debate of another law, more precisely in another case. We gave a report on the public works system within the Committee on Enterprise Development. The government said that the government's public work programme, launched by the government, is already at around HUF 1000 billion, so much has been spent within the public work programme, but there are no clear economic indicators, the government does not measure the performance within the public work system, it does not measure the economic output that we create, so the government spends, I repeat, a sum of HUF 1000 billion. And here we are talking about the fact that, on an annual basis, HUF 200-300 billion will be put into sports by Fidesz Members of Parliament, leading politicians, sitting in the chair of a trade association, leading a cool association, they are the leaders themselves, and not depending on how well the sport or the association performs, how well the results are, what opportunities are in it. A company operating on a market basis thus finances its own activities. In Hungary, this looks different; it depends on the lobbying power of a given Fidesz politician in various companies and how effectively he can get them to give millions, hundreds of millions, if any, to the sports association or the professional association and to transfer the funds from their corporate tax to the sport sector. What would be the ideal condition? The ideal condition would be that sport funding should not happen on an occasional basis during the mortification of a Fidesz politician, but, on the basis of clear performance indicators, the honest-farming public organisation would allocate the resources to this, because then we would certainly get ahead more than we are at the moment. I would just like to remind my fellow Members that the legislation that the government is trying to resolve this time is where it has led. For example, there was the survey of Hungarian football academies when they looked at how much money is spent on the operation of a football academy and what output performance the football academy produces. Well, it was interesting and instructive. A settlement called Felcsút, which is extremely important to our prime minister by accident, built a stadium with a capacity greater than its own population. Now the Prime Minister is talking about building the railway that is being planned for there in the face of defiance, if the opposition says that there is no need for rail at Supper, then the Prime Minister will build it out of defiance. However, I would like it to be not the whim of the Prime Minister, but the defiance of the Prime Minister, but the common sense that counts in sports and infrastructure investments. In this case, for example, at the football academy in Felcsút, one of the weakest football academys in the country has been seen, if we look at the effectiveness of the football academy as a proportion of the expenditure. It is also very important to record this. It is also worth looking at whether, when the government resolves these laws, there is any intention on the pro-government side of anyone to change the system of distribution, the system of sport funding that everyone considers to be disorienting on the side, if the government wants to change in a forward-looking way, so that it becomes a healthy process, a tendentious construction. My fellow Members, if you know anything about it, you should tell me to be kind in this debate, because frankly, I do not know about such a process. What I see is that they name replacement development, they name different sports, but basically the money goes there because there's a high-level Fidesz politician who's hijacking these funds. Professionals are not at the forefront of professional associations or associations, they are leading Fidesz politicians, and this is not well. There are some segments that politics shouldn't penetrate. Sports, for example. If, for example, I were asked to be head of a sports club or to lead a professional alliance, I can say with a calm conscience, fellow Members, that I would not do it, simply because I am not good at it. And Fidesz politicians, despite the fact that they are also incompetent. They have a full-time job, and it's 6:00 in the evening, and I started here in Parliament at 9:00 in the morning, wondering when I'd be interested in my sports job. There's just no time. In full-time Parliament, a Member of Parliament must perform his duties, not at the head of a sports association, as a second job, practically and as a full-time recruiter. So I would ask Erik Bánki, as the only remaining Fidesz Member, to forward, please, that much depends on you, because there is no chance for his fellow Member to listen live to the content of my speech, but we would like to make a clear message to the government that this exercise must be changed urgently for the reasons I have listed, for the sake of all of us, especially for the sake of Hungarian sport. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-164	The representatives of the LMP are not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-18-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The presentation of the Committee on Economic Affairs, as regards the amendment of the Law on Gambling Management, is unfortunately repeatedly unacceptable. On the one hand, it is unacceptable because the change concerns the revenue from the budget through the toy tax payable, but the reasons for the expected financial impact are not mentioned in a single word. It does not mention that the amendment is expected to increase or decrease tax revenues. Without this, it is difficult to imagine why this amendment is necessary, why the legislation in force cannot remain. I do not want to repeat the opposition representatives. In all likelihood, the answer is clearly one name: Andy Vajna. That's probably why you're changing this law again, so that this man can benefit from it and through it, I suppose, even to many others who might have Andy Vajna's money, but that would lead us further to talk about it, how far is Andy Vajna's hand, or how far is his power? On the other hand, the wording is unacceptable because the wording itself is meaningless, unhungarian, ignoring the grammatical rules, and the irregular sentences of the text put forward make it impossible to implement a misunderstanding as such. So the clarification and interpretation of the text would be a very important aspect for everyone. When codification is done by you, and if you'd just give it a little time and not just rush and bring it to the House quickly because of certain interests, you could pay more attention to the fact that these bill proposals and then these laws can be interpreted properly. Then we may not see a law being passed, and it may not even come into force, but it needs to be amended. The other, which means amendments to this bill, concerns sport, and I do not have a good opinion about it. I do not have a good opinion because the second and third Orbán governments have created another area of corruption in Hungary, and this is sport corruption. Clearly, they've developed a sports corruption system that you run very well. They can't even argue with this statement because I already consider it corruption and corruption, which my fellow Member János Volner has already talked about, that Fidesz politicians will be at the head of sports associations, major associations, precisely to bring money there. What else is this but corruption? ! And about the confusion and confusion of the Taotörgy, it's better not to talk. In addition, the proposal to amend the system of support for visual team sports would complement this whole with a new act. The procedure currently in force is not simple, but it can only be seen from the fact that Congressman Erik Bánki outlined it and outlined it as the system is in operation at the moment, but it was also a problem for him to be able to fully explain what kind of support it is now, how it is needed, because this whole system is a little messy and messy at the moment. So now it's not easy. [[18.00]] Companies shall be entitled to benefit from the tax relief if they receive a subsidy certificate as provided for in the grant or sponsorship agreement concluded in advance, the amount of the aid shall be paid to the sponsored sports organisation or the fact of the transfer shall be reported to the State tax authority. This was the system so far, but here too, because of the fact that the grants were and were running through cycles, which may or may not have been accepted by the relevant sports association, although it was applied for by one of the associations, the professional sports association also gave it permission, but it did not receive either the support or even the support from the company, but for some reason it was not realized, then it had to be written back and everything else, so it was pretty messy enough. But what we do not understand is that the amendment intends to include in this process the step of making a so-called aid letter to companies wishing to benefit from tax relief before issuing the aid certificate. The grant letter of intent is therefore a new legal institution in this opaque system, and I believe that this preliminary statement does not have a function that could not be settled in an agreement between the supporting company and the supported entity, so it complicates the system unnecessarily. My colleague, Erik Bánki, said that this was an extra guarantee. I do not think that there is any guarantee of realization, because this statement of intent is not a binding commitment. Just because there will be such a grant letter doesn't mean that the company can say: please, I changed my mind, but it doesn't happen. So it will not be easier for anyone to plan how much money will be made and how much money will be spent on this. We therefore believe that, in the spirit of simplification and reduction of bureaucracy, the two points of this amending proposal, which concerns this, should be rejected. I would add that we have tabled a number of amendments to the bill with my fellow Member, János Volner, and I would like you to consider this. I would also like you to consider - and this is once again understandable if we really do accept it, and that is why I started by, unfortunately, by establishing this sport corruption system - what is happening here with property rights. Because you are saying that nothing else is going to happen here but that advertising and marketing rights have not been sufficiently emphasised and have not been sufficiently defined that this is also a property right, so the fact that from now on advertising and marketing rights are also property rights will now be included in the sports law. The problem is, by the way, that there is a rather broad concept here, too, because the fact that it is advertising and marketing law, you have not opened it more clearly than what it means. What does advertising and marketing law mean in this case? Are we just talking about TV advertising rights related to television broadcasts or online broadcasts? Obviously not. Are we talking about, say, advertising on the player's jersey or on any other surface? Probably, yeah. But no one's talking about whether merchandising rights are a question of marketing law, because in my opinion, they are not, but in any way, so... - but if someone wants to, they could actually be part of it, because there is no specific definition of what we mean in advertising and marketing law. The biggest problem is that while you are now saying that this has been defined, and from this point on, advertising and marketing law has been included in the sports law, but there is no longer any mention of the fact that there is a section in this sport law at the moment that determines exactly what is going on, what will happen with the property rights, what can happen. Namely, the 37th. Paragraph 1 of the Act states:. The sports association shall have the right to provide in the regulations for the system of competition which it has issued and organised, that its members are 36. It shall retain certain property rights for a limited period of time for recovery pursuant to paragraph 1. What does that mean? It means that you are once again giving the professional sports associations that you run to decide which clubs you want to support and which clubs you want to destroy. If your friends are at the head of some associations, they will support where your friends are not, and they will be destroyed. What does that mean? It means that property rights can be clearly acquired by the sports association, so you can take them away from the athlete, because these property rights today belong to the athlete or sports association, the sports organisation. And let's say that football, which is at the heart and heart of Viktor Orbán, will be decided, starting tomorrow, that when the law comes into force, through the Hungarian Football Association, that this right will be taken away from some associations, and, let's say, it could destroy them, because when this right is revoked... Let's say we buy an association that you won't otherwise destroy as long as Gábor Kubatov is president, but if you were to take away from Ferencváros, let's say, the property rights of advertising boards, then in all likelihood you wouldn't be able to pay Ferencváros as much money as these rights are worth at the moment, so you could say that from tomorrow we will only pay 10-20 or 30 million forints. On the other hand, if you take MTK, whose boards are no longer so valuable in view of the audience, and how many times it gets on the TV screen and the like, you can tell him that you will get another grant, and we will give you, say, 300 million for those advertising sites that are not worth 10 million. So with this whole system, you want nothing more than concrete it, and you ensure that if, in preparation for the 2018 change of government, Fidesz will not govern this country, in sport, in the sports corruption system, you can still keep your hands on it, because it will certainly give you an opportunity to tell the sports associations even more that: here you are, from now on you will do what we say, or we can destroy you through the sports professional association, or that if you are suitable for us, we will help you. It is clear that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not assist, we cannot support your intention, so I ask you to consider the three amendments that we have tabled, to take into account that we have tabled these amendments with a better intention, so we are not submitting them to attack the government, but because we believe that we would like to cooperate constructively in the field of sport as well. We have already proven a number of sports-related issues - we can think of the World Water Championship or the Olympics - that what is really in the interest of the nation and the cause of the nation, we have been able to support those issues, but in this case, when they are trying to strengthen and build sports corruption, we cannot support these proposals. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-166	I will ask my fellow Members and the Secretary of State if anyone would like to comment. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] The Secretary of State has spoken. You have the floor.
u2015-11-18-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond in a few words from the government. Mr László Varga raised whether the number of current five visual team sports could be increased. I believe that we agree with the aim of promoting sport as a priority, and that support for sport has been considered by the government as a priority since 2010, and that it has taken a lot of action to this end and intends to continue to do so in the future. We therefore agree with the aim of supporting areas other than five visual team sports. With regard to solutions, I draw attention to the fact that besides the most popular team sports, 16 priority sports, such as the kayak canoe sport mentioned by you, will receive very significant grants with direct budget support this year and next year. The other thing that MEP László Varga and Congressman György Szilágyi also highlighted, and what I think we need to make very clear is the enforcement of the right to deduct from the law, and the question of who has this deduction, who can make use of this provision. I would like to make it clear that, under the law, privately owned entities cannot exercise the right to deduct, and this right can only be exercised by an organization, Szerencségy Zrt., a 100% state-owned organisation. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]] A specific name has also been mentioned, I repeat: only a 100% state-owned company can use this option. [[18.10]] As to Mr János Volner's points: there have been sentences from the Member who, I feel, go beyond the proposal, but I must respond to them. The first question is whether or not sport support is specific and whether there is a system of indicators for the use of grants. The current amendment concerns the Tao system for the five visual team sports. I must say here that there is a very significant professional filter for supporting programmes. Each association shall decide on its support on the basis of the professional criteria of the Association. There is, therefore, a professional filter that should apply to all programmes in accordance with the law. When it comes to programmes of greater value than HUF 300 million or professional fraternity programmes, the Ministry of Sport, the Ministry of Human Resources, and the Ministry of Taxation and Public Finance, the Ministry of National Economy. So there is a screening system that ensures that professionally most important programmes and projects can be implemented. I also draw attention to the fact that the corporate tax benefit is basically, to a large extent, in favour of re-education. To a tremendous extent, thanks to God, there has been a positive rise in the number of children in replacement education. It is a cliché, but sport teaches you a lot of things, not only improves physical abilities, but also forms character, in this respect I think that the system of corporate tax relief goes beyond whether we are talking about sports subsidies and, in addition to character formation, its preservation of health is a key factor in maintaining this system. Mr President, Mr President, once again mentioned the public work programme among the indicators. I believe that the amount mentioned by Mr President is a cumulative amount of billions over several years, and I think that the public work programme is not only a step forward for individuals, because people who are involved in this programme can make a living from value-making work instead of aid, but it is also an indication of the success of this programme that the growth of the Hungarian economy has been above the EU average in the last two to three years, since 2013, and this expansion is expected by the European Commission and international organisations to remain above the EU average in the coming years. So the public work programme, I think, has put its results on the table at national level as well. Finally, let me mention one thing about the points raised by Mr György Szilágyi, who mentioned the word corruption several times. As an official and as a public figure, I say to everyone that if you know of a specific corruption case, you should report it immediately to the appropriate official bodies. Otherwise, I think that only words can be said if there is no concrete action behind these allegations. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-168	Congressman György Szilágyi has spoken, you have the floor.
u2015-11-18-169	First of all, I would like to thank Péter Benő Banai, really, I am glad that he is here, because it is not customary for the government to speak not only in the closing words, but also to express its opinion during the general debate and to respond to this, so it is absolutely positive. You say that there is a professional screening system for Tao grants, what the associations are using it for, and this is true: you must submit a draft for the sports professional association, a concept that the sports professional association then decides whether it is appropriate and can support it, and that is when this association can start. It's not this, it's not the professional filter, it's the control system. The biggest problem is that after checking this project - when you get permission - your control system is not normal, and here comes the other problem. Indeed, what you are saying is that most of the Tao subsidies can be used to raise supplies, that is the intention - I believe that was your intention, in rhetoric they have said all along - is a noble goal. The problem begins again, that if we have spent a given unit of Tao subsidies on supplies, then, since there is no control, we cannot say that what went on paper to raise supplies and supply support really went on to raise supplies and supply support. I'll tell you why. Because unfortunately - and as long as this system works in Hungary - unfortunately this is the way it works, and we have called attention to this - companies ask for a refund more than once to grant support, because the associations trick to give professional athletes from the Tao Support, it can also be very simple, Mr. Secretary of State, and there is nothing illegal about it, it is enough to only conclude a replacement contract with three or four professional athletes, and the money went straight to the replacement, just less to play football, and once a week to spend an hour on paper with the resupplying players, and it is already clear, it can no longer be reported. And to say that if we have any knowledge of the corruption case, let us press charges: look, Mr Secretary, only I myself have in the last six years, if I have not filed 30 complaints, none, but János Volner could be asked how many corruption cases he has filed. Since you made this law, that you can't even appeal if you're not involved, usually these complaints end up with a simple sentence written by the prosecution: this act is not a crime, and it closes the investigation, and that's it. Cut! When it's clear, believe me, in cases of clear corruption, legally substantiated complaints - since there are lawyers at Jobbik who don't give out reports that are not legally justified - they don't accept them. Once again, I may and may believe in the Tao system that the intention really was, but the problem here is that it is in the government's best interest to carry out as much control as possible. After all, if the government says that I am asking for public money; and it is also true that sport is not only about competition, but also about how many children start to play sports, how many children love sport, so that the child who loves sport will also play sports as an adult will also have an impact on health and have an impact on many other sectors, which we agree with to the maximum. But that's why, if you're willing to use this money to raise supplies with good intentions, someone steals just one forint, is tricky, and you're not using it for what you're meant to do, then you're the one who's supposed to be the one who's gonna have to check it out the most to make sure that it's really your intention. Another question, however, is what will happen to the replacement education, what will happen to these noble goals after 2017, as we hear nothing from the government about what the plan is after 2017. The European Union has allowed the Tao Support Scheme until 2017. If, after 2017, the European Union may say that I will not allow the Tao Support system to operate as it worked, or will not allow it at all, then another question will be what will happen to Hungarian sport, or what will happen to the reinforcements and reinforcements. But that's a long way from the law. I just wanted to say that what you said, in principle, I could agree with that, but unfortunately, the execution went a little wrong again.
u2015-11-18-170	I do not see any further opposition, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask Erik Bánki to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the congressman. [[Gergely Farkas places a scarf spread out on his table, representing the Hungarian flag at one end of Poland and at the other, with the following subtitles POLSKA-WEGRY.]]
u2015-11-18-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Much has been said in the general debate of the bill, and there is no point in answering the good part of it, because we know precisely that if any amendments to the gambling law are found, you will immediately take out Andy Vajna. The Secretary of State answered perfectly the questions that were asked as a rhetorical question in the debate, because you knew the answer, too, because the person who read the bill and its general and part-life justification could clearly take out the possibility of giving this bill to one single operator with the right to deduct, and this is the State-owned State Gambling Operator Szerencség Zrt. So this part, I think, we can skip over relatively quickly. I thank Mr Secretary of State very much for his confirmation that the Government remains committed to supporting sport. [[18.20]] I think, and we can all be proud of that, that Europe's most generous sports budget is the Hungarian sports budget. And we should not be ashamed here, gentlemen, but we should be proud of that. Why do I say that? I say this because every government that says it is wise to give its greatest support to sport as far as possible. The Secretary of State has already mentioned how much sport helps not only children to develop but also the whole of social cohesion. Allow me to endorse with a quote the words of the Secretary of State. This quote comes from our scientist, the pride of the nation, directly from Albert Szent-Györgyi, who said: "The sport during the game teaches you the most important civil virtues in a short time: solidarity, self-sacrifice, complete subordination of individual interests, endurance, willingness to act, quick decision, self-esteem, absolute decency and, above all, the rules of fair play, the noble struggle." There is no other area of society that could create such value. And then we didn't talk about social inclusion, acceptance of diversity. I myself was an athlete, I know that there is no difference between the rich, the poor, the smart, the weaker, the Roma, the Germans, the Croatians and the Hungarians on the sports field. Everyone there learns to fight fair for each other in a given sport. Mr Szilágyi spoke about the lack of transparency of the corporate tax system and the lack of control of its use. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, you know the law, which I believe will apply sufficient rigour to all amounts used in a way that is not fair or not included in the tax certificate. After all, there is a very serious sanction in the corporate tax relief law: those who do not use their corporate tax subsidies as intended can be excluded from tax subsidies for two years. The audit is carried out in parallel by two bodies. On the professional front, the relevant sports association, which issued the subsidy certificate, and, from the point of view of public finances, the EMMI, where the sports secretary of state has the organisation that controls the tax use. Obviously, Congressman, have you met any of those sports clubs - perhaps they've already come to you? - by which the State recovered the aid which was not properly used. There are also examples of this, Congressman. I think the checkup on this side has worked out. And Congressman Volner has explained quite a lot that corporate tax subsidies only flow to areas with a representative of a fidesz lobbyist. Honourable Congressman, I can't give you a comprehensive picture of the entire verticum, but I know about the applications received by the Hungarian Football Association. About 2,000 applications come in every year, and now I can say this, united to the Hungarian Football Association. Nearly 90 percent of this is a small association where there is no sport policy issue, and where the group of tax sponsors comes from the local entrepreneurs who support the respective associations out of enthusiasm, commitment to sport and their settlement. I think that the vast majority of corporate tax offers are entirely voluntary, based on local lobbying interests, not on lobbying interests of political leaders. Overall, I have to say that the system of corporate tax relief has, by the way, fulfilled its expectations in abundance. That, too, was referred to by the Secretary of State. Let me give you a specific example of football. Before the corporate tax relief system started, there were 150,000 certified players in the Hungarian replacement, today 330,000 children regularly play sports. Therefore, we think that this number, especially now that the Hungarian football team has made it to the European Championship after 44 years, will be re-entering the world after 30 years, which will increase even more the number of children who will play sports. And also, as the Secretary of State has said, not only in terms of team sports, the government considers support to be important, but also provides very high-quality support for the 16 flagship team sports, which can serve both the Olympic preparation and the equipment and facilities needs of replacement training. I think that the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, has also done everything in its power to ensure that our athletes can represent Hungary at the highest level in European and world competitions. I very much hope that this will bring the results that we have experienced in recent years, too, in the next period. Let me give you another example of why, among other things, support for sport is important. A study of the significance of sport was carried out in the United States a few years ago. The study showed that every dollar the government spends on sports development, sports support, is a three-dollar saving from the health budget. Because there will be so much less children, and then later the number of adults who will be sick. By the way, children who regularly play sports perform much better at school, not to mention that they will be able to work much harder, much more persistently at work, much more effectively. I think that every single forint we can spend on sports support will pay off a great deal for both the Hungarian budget, but especially for the Hungarian society, the Hungarian people. I therefore ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Peter Benő Banai applauds.]]
u2015-11-18-172	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. But first, I would like to ask Mr Gergő Farkas if he has announced in advance that he will place it here, not in the wardrobe. [[Defiance. Gergely Farkas:I didn't announce it, I want to use it as an illustration tool.]] Okay, I'm just gonna have to signal it to the House Committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-18-173	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Since 2008, Polish patriotic organisations and Polish patriots have organised the process of Polish independence, which I have been able to attend for several times this year, and I would like to say a few words in Parliament. 11 November 1918 is the date on which Poland became an independent state again after 123 years. Remembering this year more and more people remembered this year in Warsaw, 100,000 patriots remembered this date in Warsaw. Proudly, he marched as a Polish patriot in this procession, where hundreds of Hungarians participated. We were only present at this event with a delegation from Jobbik's youth department, a delegation of 50. Why did we attend this event? First of all, in such a case, I must mention our historic friendship, our thousand-year-old historical friendship, which has appeared in many common rulers or even in helping each other, or even when a country was fighting for independence, in helping it. So there are a number of events based on such common historical friendships, which also moved us to take part in this procession. I could also mention that the Ruch Narodowy, an ally of Jobbik, or even the organization called All-Polish Youth, which was one of the organizers of Jobbik's youth department, was also a kind of invitation. From all this, it might seem that we have made a gesture to our Polish brothers by being there, but it is not that at all. I can confirm that in person, and with all the people I was there, we can confirm that it was a great experience, a social experience, an uplifting experience that I think it is good for as many people in Hungary to know about. From what point of view was this procession instructive to us? On the one hand, it was a manifestation of Polish patriotism that I think was exemplary. Our Polish brothers and sisters believe that, from a political point of view, the expansion of national forces is ahead of us. In such a way, they are right that the Jobbik as the national party is Hungary's second greatest power, the challenger of Fidesz, in contrast to all of this, the national movements there have now managed to achieve a breakthrough and have managed to get some representatives into my seism. But in that sense, they're right about that. From a social point of view, however, I feel that when I was there, I have often felt that their society as a whole is much more affected by patriotism, the importance of Christian values, and the experience of all of this, anti-communism that connects them. I could almost see it in their everyday life, in our many days' journey, and in the procession even more. [[18.30]] I have seen that from teenage youths to married couples over 60 years of age, to older people, society as a whole has been represented at this huge event, which was also uplifting in this respect. But it was also uplifting in the way they looked at us Hungarians. It's hard to give back the experiences we've had in the procession. When they saw that we were Hungarians, with a Hungarian flag, they came to us together to take a picture, to hug us, to shake our hands, to express with gratitude what they felt that we were there for their national festival. I can say that if someone thought that Polish-Hungarian friendship was just a symbolic thing, then take part in such a procession, participate in such an event, and then they will re-evaluate them. Once again, it is difficult to express in words what we have experienced there, just because we are Hungarians. The procession should also be analysed from the point of view of what message it had. The whole procession had a message for Europe, reflecting the stand for conservative, traditional values, instead of the values that have been woven through liberal globalisation, which unfortunately characterizes the European Union today, or which are winning in Western Europe, perhaps we can say. The tens of thousands of patriots there have expressed that they do not ask for this European Union, but want to stand up for the values that Jobbik or their organisations put on their flags for example. Polish-Hungarian friendship is therefore a very valuable and living relationship, in view of our Hungarianness it can be said to be unique. We don't have that kind of relationship with any other people, which is why I think it's very valuable. And I would like to ask my fellow Hungarians and, of course, our Polish brothers to cultivate this friendship, strengthen it, make the relationship between the two nations alive and stronger. It is also important that this should be not just an emotional alliance, but in many ways the fate of the two countries is similar, the geopolitical and geostrategic fate, the relationship of national forces to the European Union. It is important that we find an alliance in this sense. This was also expressed by our Molino, which we took to this procession, which contained the text that the friendship of the present is the alliance of the future. In view of this, I also look at our future cooperation with our Polish brothers and sisters, and I trust that this friendship will continue for a very long time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-18-174	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume our meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:32 p.m.]] László Földi s.k.a. Dezső gullible s.k.a.
