u2015-09-22-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Mr Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from the LMP Group, who wishes to address the agenda with the title of the squandered country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have already voiced our opposition to land privatisation in several places, but unfortunately, there is simply no opportunity for dialogue within Parliament, and there is simply no framework to talk about it here. Prime Minister said several times yesterday about the refugee crisis that we need national cooperation, that we need to listen to each other, that we should take into account each other's views, and that we could ask the same thing about land privatisation, how good it would be to have a dialogue on this. Please believe me that there is nothing political about it when I say that, in my opinion, it is a terribly wrong and foolish decision to sell state land. It is quite clear from the last 25 years that, obviously, different governments have tried to grant rental rights to different groups that are more dear to them, but nevertheless, one way or another, these lands have been able to contribute to the rural population reserve, and these lands have been able to contribute in some way to maintaining rural jobs. This is the only way the state can intervene directly in rural policy, and this is the only way it can serve directly the purpose of property policy. If you let out of your hands the right that any government in the future may have an impact on the processes of the countryside, if you give up the fact that the state, as owner of its own land, sets standards and expectations for what happens in the agricultural land, will give up around the countryside. As long as the owner of the state has the chance to say that there should be a production structure here that best serves the public goals. Until then, you can say that this should be combined with employment and that you have to hire one person per 50 ha. You can say that it is possible to create public economies in small settlements with no job at all, and that it can be created that the state can increase the role of the employer. But if you give up your ownership, you'll obviously give up any impact on all these processes. Obviously, we have argued a lot within the walls of Parliament about what this Fidesz tender system was like, obviously from a different perspective we see these results that can be shown, and obviously we also see that among the motivations there is the fact that the various new applicants who are kind to the government do not want them very much and are not able to fulfil their tender commitments, employment, animal growth and so on. For this reason, it is best for the territory to be owned to get rid of these obligations. Obviously, you can see that the government can spend any amount of money on anything, so the proceeds are good. So we're talking government motivations. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the government's tasks regarding the exercise of ownership rights, it also has a role for the common good, and what it wants to do as owner is completely contrary to the task for the common good. Every heir who inherits a fortune tries to increase it, wants to add something and increase common property. This Orbán government is reviving this wealth, which it inherited, simply squandering it, and giving up any meaningful change in the case of any government. Obviously, this is an extremely wrong move, and therefore I do not want to talk about why the various plans of the government decree are wrong; why is it wrong to say in practically vain that tenants do not necessarily have the right to pre-empt the lease if no one else will be able to buy it for 20 years, 35 years. It's obvious that small farmers don't play here, because over three hectares of public bidding, who has more money, takes the land. It is obvious from the draft government decree that the laws on land traffic are being bypassed here, because in a pre-emptive system, those who didn't make the initial bid couldn't take advantage of their pre-emptive rights. It is apparent that small farmers do not have access to this land. In this context, it appears that the target group here is not who you are talking about. Either the current tenants who would get rid of their responsibilities, or the investors who have no problem not getting access to the land for 20 years, 35 years. There's nothing to be said about it, I don't know how to discourage you from this very, very silly idea, and it would be good to have real arguments for it. Mr. Secretary. You're a highly trained young man. I would ask you, if you do that, not to give me a demagogue, populist stupidity, personal response, as you so often do, but to give me a sensible answer, try to justify with some reason why this is a good government measure. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-22-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bitay Márton Örs responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-3	I would like to begin with similar compliments, as the congressman said. Mr President, Dear House, Of course, not to say any demagogues or not, but you do want to come here, according to the information published in the press, you said that if there is such a program, you would like to participate and buy. I don't know if that's true or not, a statement like that was made in the press. But you're right, you're right, because you're a decent farmer, if you're going to allow this rating, then from here it seems like you're more skilled and skilled as a farmer than you are a politician, so you're very right to want to buy in this tender, because you're right, we're trying to help the local family farmers. However, I would like to help you with some of the issues that you've told me about exactly what it looks like then. I understand why it is important to emphasise the word "privatisation" politically, but it is not a privatisation, it is a public auction. There's a big difference between the two. One is some kind of privateization process in some procedure, and the other has a law, and there is an auction, and whoever complies with the law or gives most money can buy this area. He said that there was no parliamentary dialogue. Allow me to resent the answer you gave to Minister Fazekas the other day, reading the National Earth Fund Act, in which you forgot to read the pass on sales. And the reason the two things are connected is because the National Earth Fund Act is a two-thirds law, and you voted in favour of this two-thirds law. Personally, you didn't sit in Parliament at the time, but the LMP faction voted for it, and I think it's very right, because it's about the responsible management of state assets. State lands, he has always said so - he is right, these are state lands that we sell, I just want to stress that we are talking specifically about fields, so we are not talking about forest, we are not talking about protected natural areas. And if it's already a protected area, you mentioned that other people are trying to increase their inheritance, why the state isn't doing that. This is exactly what we do in protected natural areas, and we have bought over 5,000 hectares since 2010. In protected natural areas, as you well know, there is a law under which the state has an obligation to purchase a certain part of these protected natural areas. Thank you very much for telling us in the minutes here after a long debate that the lease scheme has contributed to maintaining the countryside and increasing the number of jobs - he said. Thank you very much, and I think so, and I'm glad you changed your point of view, because we haven't heard that from you before. [[9.10]] And I can't do anything about what you said about creating public economies. It may be my age, but I find that politics has long gone beyond that, and not only does it not want to create public economies, but it has already closed the state economy. And then he also mentioned that the new applicants would benefit from the programme or would not benefit from the programme. I would like to draw your attention to fine slides here too, because people listen to you, so it's a shame to mislead them, knowingly or accidentally. Because it shows you see a government decree... - I don't want to ride on words, but it's a government decision you've seen, but it's called a consistent regulation, and it was a suggestion, and the government hasn't made a decision about it. In addition, today we know what you have decided, as yesterday's government decree - I think 1666 is the number of the government decree - has been published, which lists exactly what and how it can be sold. You say, and this is what you wrote in your notes, that you want to schedule the government to sell it to the newcomers. This is a very fraudulent statement, because neither in the material nor in the intention, and this schedule - the Prime Minister has set a very short deadline - will last until the end of this year. Therefore, no advantage is derived from the fact that he has been renting land since 2010, because a significant part of the winners of the programme for the farmers have been renting these lands for only a year or two. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs takes over his notary seat.]] For the right to pre-emption: it's also a fatal mistake, and it's very kind of you to subpoena the land traffic law, wrong. The pre-purchase holder is entitled not to live when the bid is executed, but is long over, a contract has been posted long ago, and he has the opportunity to submit a pre-purchase entitlement to that posted contract. All I can say to you, dear Congressman, in the tone of love is that we should read the laws a little bit, discuss government regulations, government decisions, because this is constantly slipping away from the facts of communication, only misleading everyone, and no one will have any pleasure or benefit from it. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On the anniversary of the birth of István Széchenyi, Member Mátyás Firtl of the KDNP Group, Mr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-5	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Count István Széchenyi was born on 21 September 1791 224 years ago. On the occasion of the anniversary, I also consider it important to recall in the Hungarian Parliament the life work and personality of the creator of modern, new Hungary, the largest Hungarian. Today, István Széchenyi's epoch-forming ideas and activities are timely, all that he has left for the nation. Hungarian public life, one of the most prominent and important figures of politics, is the role model of all Hungarians who want to do for the community. Politician, writer, polyhistorian, economist, Minister of Transport of the Batthyány Government, Hungarian economy, transport, foreign policy, the implementation of the reforms of community association life, sport, founder of many important institutions, but above all a true patriot living in faith. He said, "Every honest heart is most holy in the home.."The main feature of his life's work is faith and patriotism. Therefore, István Széchenyi's oeuvre, world and life perspective is always timely, modern; it is modern today. We Sopron County are proud that István Széchenyi spent important, decisive years of his life in Cenken and Sopron. And we are proud of the work of the entire country, defining our national future, as the whole Hungarian nation is rightly proud of the modern, timely statesman still today; his role model to be followed, whose principles are in full harmony with his actions. Ladies and gentlemen, And I thought it important to speak here today, too, because the Széchenyi anniversary is certainly a happy occasion to thank the Hungarian Government, Mr. Prime Minister L. Simon László, on behalf of the people living in the region, as a parliamentary representative of Sopron and its region, that, when we heard our request, the restoration of the Széchenyi heritage worthy of its value and rank could begin. Thank you for following the government's promise that the restoration and preservation of the Széchenyi heritage as one of the key elements of the Hungarian national monuments and its presentation to posterity will be supported by the government of Hungary as an important issue as an important part of its public service. This government intention has concrete results. Among other things, that Széchenyi's trusting rights were transferred to the Eszterháza Centre on Nagycenken; that the government transferred significant resources to the development of the Nagycenk Memorial Ensemble; that as an overture to the multi-annual work, the facade of the Széchenyi Castle could be renovated, and that it restored the Széchenyi Mausoleum with a grant of HUF 120 million. All of this can strengthen our confidence that further developments can take place until next year's 225-year-old Széchenyi anniversary, which will continue to serve the purpose of making the Széchenyi memorial place a place of pilgrimage worthy of its rank. I continue to respectfully ask for the government's support for this. Ladies and gentlemen, István Széchenyi gave direction to action, strength to his faith in providence, his unwavering patriotism. In the service of your nation at your age, there were no less difficulties than we ourselves, Hungarians. Today, when the protection of our country and Europe is at stake, when our values are threatened, I am convinced that to do the right thing, the direction and strength can remain faith in providence and patriotism, the example of which is always given by the life of István Széchenyi, because every honest heart is most holy. The Széchenyi quote can be read in a stone from a long time ago in one of the tiles of the promenade leading to the Mausoleum of Nagycenk:. It all depends on us, we want it! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's up to us, we just want it! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-22-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Firtl, for once again demonstrating his commitment to the protection of our country's history, its historical greats and our cultural heritage in this House. Count István Széchenyi's thoughts and wide-ranging oeuvre have always been cited for posterity in all areas, whether it is the country's scientific and economic development, art, transport, politics or sports. His cult began immediately after his death. In a short time, his figure became a symbol of the symbolic national hero of modern, civil Hungary. Writings dealing with Széchenyi, works of literature, training and cinema, musical works and institutions were born. The award and development programme bears the largest Hungarian name in the spirit of the government, civil and institutional respect for it. In a year's time, on 21 September 2016, Count István Széchenyi will celebrate the 225th anniversary of his birth, so the Prime Minister's Office will take the initiative to make the Jubilee year worthy of his greatest Hungarian spirit in 2016. [[9.20]] Soon, the government will be able to hear a proposal which initiates the Parliament to express its agreement in the autumn session of 2015 by a resolution, Count István Széchenyi, ILV of 1925 on the introduction of its largest Hungarian memory into the law. By law, about confirming it. The symbolic act can express all Hungarian respect for Count István Széchenyi's exemplary public activities, his patriotism, his commitment to the knowledge and care of his greatest outstanding Hungarian oeuvre, his spiritual legacy. The aim of the series of commemorations is to ensure that the greatest Hungarian teachings are increasingly rooted in Hungarian souls and serve as an example in social and economic life. In order to achieve this goal next year, programmes, events such as commemorations, exhibitions, study competitions, educational, scientific and educational programmes, publication of publications and publications will be required, which will contribute to the development of the Széchenyi cult, as a priority to increasing the knowledge of youth about Széchenyi, which is inseparable from the birth of modern Hungary, its public, political and economic work and its age. As the representative said, with the support of the government, the Eszterháza Cultural Research and Festival Centre continued the renewal process launched by the Hungarian National Museum on Nagycenk. In the summer of 2015, the renovation of the Széchenyi Mausoleum was completed, and nearly HUF 100 million was also spent on the partial reconstruction of the main building of the castle. However, these were only the first steps to make the place of honor for Nagycenk, the Széchenyi people and the largest Hungarians a national center of cult and pilgrimage. The Eszterháza Center has prepared the short and medium term development concept of the Széchenyi Castle Ensemble in Nagycenk and proposes the renewal of the Széchenyi István Memorial Exhibition. The Memorial Exhibition will welcome visitors with renewed content, renewed infrastructure and renewed museum program on 21 September 2016, on the 225th anniversary of the birth of István Széchenyi. Our aim is to create the Széchenyi Research Centre, which, in addition to organising conferences of national or international importance, can also provide opportunities for scientific creative activity, the publication of scientific results and international cooperation. The Széchenyi Castle Ensemble will soon become part of the National Castle Programme, which will allow us to use EU funds to spend up to HUF 3 billion on cultural and tourist development of this outstanding site of our national history by 2020. So there is the will to make the central location of the cult, Nagycenk, suitable for the authentic, complete and spectacular presentation of the life story and oeuvre of the state man and the creative man, the politician who still determines the Hungarian industry and transport, who has achieved practical results. I will also ask for the support of my fellow Members to ensure that the Széchenyi heritage of Nagycenk not only wins back its original glory in a physical sense, but also attracts the respecters of the Széchenyi family with its spiritual expression, and I hope for all of us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Mr Lajos Korózs has applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "Payments, wages and incomes." Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I don't think I need to remind you that there was a salary increase in the social sector six years ago. In my memory, the socialists were in government at the time. The situation of wage earners has deteriorated steadily in recent years, uncertainty in the world of work is increasing, and workers' incomes are barely increasing. Beyond uncertainty, tensions are also caused by less and less concealed injustices. Today, there can be fifty times the difference between the salary of the head of an institution and the employee, and this, I think, is unacceptable income inequality. As a result of the government's blessed policy, a government leader can make a monthly salary of up to HUF 5 million. You don't have to be a mathematician to calculate if you compare the monthly salary of a social worker, say, with, for example, the future salary of the CEO of Magyar Posta, you see that the social worker receives a five-year salary per month. I'm telling you, he's gonna get five years' salary a month. However, the current government decision strongly encourages that salaries be increased and that the huge premiums so far should be included in the basic wage. The CEO, such as the head of Eximbank, or the head of the already mentioned Magyar Posta, who has earned HUF 2 million gross per month in the financial sector with an 80 per cent premium, and falls into the top category, can take HUF 72 million instead of HUF 43.2 million per year. You see, my fellow Members, you can bring home 72 million forints a year. True, the social worker in the social sector earns this much, only he earns this money in seventy years. This is an outrage! Today it is clear that Hungary is not a poor country, there is money for everything, there is money for stadiums, there is luxury investments, there is piano, organ, paintings and luxury offices. Dear House, The situation is the most dramatic among those who work for Hungary and serve the country. Public employees, i.e. teachers and teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, policemen, firefighters and soldiers, work daily for the better of our lives, but the government is not grateful to them. The magnification fad does not allow us to see how shamefully little social workers earn, as the news is not about them, about their shameful situation, but about the recent purchase of instruments, paintings and castles by the already mentioned National Bank. And how good this is for the Hungarian people. Dear House, And you said there was some good news in the sector, and that was the pay supplement. That's what social workers get. A few thousand forints. And only for five months, because it wasn't chartered. This was given to keep the people in the area quiet for a while. Please don't refer to the fact that you could earn up to 60,000 forints with this salary supplement or obtain 60,000 forints with this salary supplement, because only two people received it. Personally, I know both of them, highly qualified people with a doctoral degree who have long been in senior positions. And, of course, a few thousand forints spotted the eyes of about two thirds of the sector. But there's no mention of a third of the sector getting nothing, but nothing. This is an outrage, Mr. Secretary. Please answer me when there will be a wage increase in the social sector. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-09-22-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-22-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There were examples of wage differences between employees in the public sector, which can obviously be said from many government cycles, but the only difference is that in your cycle, when there was no ceiling, there were no rules to standardise or clarify the wages of the leaders of public companies - enough to think about the BKV case or the leaders of other public or public-owned companies - they were unbelievably out of control and Fidesz-KDNP alone was able to rattle them. That's a lot of times, over the past hundred years, and for every demagogic speaker, it's a good figure of speech, what he said when he said that some people make less money in the public sector, and some people make more. But why do you say that, Congressman? You remember, you're an ex-Secretary of State. [[Lajos Korózs: I was the last person to raise wages in the public sector.]] He raised rent, very good. That's the word I'd like to hold on to, Congressman. So you were a state secretary for the socialist government, so obviously you were looking for multiples of that money, like an average social worker at the time. And I'd hold on to the idea of a raise. It wasn't enough for you then, because you and Gábor Simon's fellow Member, who was also a State Secretary at the time, asked or didn't ask for it, but you were the only ones who received their Secretary-General's salary in advance. Your salary as Secretary of State was higher than the salary of any Secretary of State of the Second and Third Orbán governments who sit here in Parliament. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] All of us here in the front row made less money. I don't think it's civil to look in each other's pockets, Mr. Congressman, but just because you're telling me why state leaders make as much as they do when you've made more money than all of the current state ministers with a positive hijacking, and that's exactly when they hijacked your salary than Gábor Simon's, I think it's a self-goal for you. [[9.30]] As regards the situation of workers in Hungary: if we look at 4 million 224 thousand people working in Hungary now, we can see that this is just 139 thousand more than a year ago, and there is 64.1 percent employment, while five to six years ago this was around 55 percent. If we look at the unemployment rate, which was around 11 percent in your time, we see that this is 6.8 percent, which means that there are 51,000 more people working than a year ago, and women's employment in Hungary has been breaking records for months, years. If we look at the development of Hungarian wages, we can see that for 31 months, real earnings have been increasing in Hungary, while the European Union is coming out of a crisis period, in Hungary wages have increased by 3.8 percent in the first seven months of the year. And like I told you, 31 months ago, real estate has been growing. One of the foundations of this is, of course, that inflation has disappeared, so the taxes on the poor, which would hit pensioners and small-time earners the most, inflation has ceased in Hungary. It does not cause them as much social problems as it caused them in socialist times when inflation went up. We can also say that this increase in wages is achieved in all sectors and in a proportionate and balanced manner. Wages in the enterprise sector increased by 3.9 percent in Hungary, but real earnings growth was 2.9 percent for those involved in public employment as well. We can say that there is also a marked increase in salaries and incomes for the lowest wage earners, as this has been a 3.7 percent increase in the last year for the minimum wage or minimum wage. And if you compare the data, if you add the increase in the number of employees, if you add the increase in wages, if you add up the amount of family tax incentives used, then you can see that at national level in Hungary in the first six months of the year, the total wage mass that employees received is 6.3 percent higher than the same period of the previous year. The purchasing power of families is so much greater, so much more money is in the pockets of Hungarian families. I think this is a very good result, and this will be based on the results of the previous period between 11 and 14 when families' incomes increased by 10.8 percent, including the introduction of family-type taxation. This shows the government's commitment to workers, as this is a double increase in earnings compared to GDP growth over the last five years. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. He applied for a pre-meeting speech from Jobbik's group, Mr Adam Mirkóczki, notary of the Parliament, entitled "bridge to the world of fraud, lies and theft." Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of Roma integration, many of us have said our proposals and criticisms in many ways. There were times critically, sometimes constructively, when accountable. The answer, however, is mostly bullshit, always explaining, or even if it wasn't enough to lie on the part of the government, then the racist, extreme card usually came along, and it's all taken care of. In view of the fact that the Secretary of State Rétvári will probably answer my speech before the agenda, I do not expect much, but I would like to draw his attention to the fact that we are now avoiding those lilies that we are taking away in such detail as how many forints we round, or what the title of the application was, a serious sum has been written out, which has otherwise disappeared. Because that's the point right now. With respect to their five years of governance, I think it can be said without criticism that they are no different from the MSZP in relation to Roma integration or Gypsy policy, and I will even go further, not even from SZDSZ. If we break this down to those responsible, the SZDSZ had a Victoria of Mohács, the MSZP had a Kolompár Orbán, and you have a Florian Farkas here. In terms of their work and the results of their work, I think it is completely compatible with each other: sociocultural, social, educational, or other catching-up aspects, if we were to make a significant deduction on exactly what they achieved, then in all three cases we could get a converging result with zero. What is important, and what can also be noted in all three cases, is that they have been disposing over very serious amounts of money, spending very serious amounts of money or disappearing. The fate of this, we can see from accountability. What is important, and what I would like to emphasise, is how we should not go into those number wars now, how and how exactly how many forints have disappeared. Let's stick to the facts. Let's stick to the point. In recent months, either to my fellow Members of the LMP or to my better Members, when this topic came up, you have always said that this is a success programme, this is a success story, we are making false accusations, we are making unfounded criticisms, let us go away and see how successful and effective the programme "bridge to the world of work" is. Well, recently, specifically a few days ago, a journalist did not pass through all the regional offices that disadvantaged young people of gypsy origin should be engaged in job placement, I would add, out of hundreds of millions of forints. Well, all the offices, without exception, without staff, are empty. Flórian Farkas is unavailable, Flórian Farkas does not comment, no one from the government from Fidesz or KDNP makes a statement as if it were a news blackout. However, when asked to do so, whether you are Minister Balog or you, Secretary of State, you usually accuse us of not looking into it, of making unfounded accusations and making absolutely unnecessary criticisms that are particularly damaging to social integration. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, what's bad for social integration is the policy you're doing. On the one hand, they turn a blind eye to all kinds of unscrupulous theft, fraud, lying. They stand up for any inconclusive, I dare venture to risk, by committing a series of crimes of common law, whether they are their representatives, or their state secretary, or by other people appointed by you with a serious status, and they attack those who, I might add, rightly request the opaque path of the taxpayers' money spent by you, and who the hell knows, or only God knows, who the mechanisms for their enrichment are. That should finally be forgotten, and that should be done after five years, to put it mildly, to put it right in terms of being responsible. Let us not forget that as long as you allow Flórian Farkas to run amok in this regard, you will not only prove that your Roma integration policy over the last 25 years is not different from the policy of SZDSZ or MSZP Roma integration, but will legitimise the series of public thefts that is taking place here in front of us. And the press, the opposition representatives, any public figure, had no chance to correct even a penny, how to put it, to reveal in a verifiable form or to bring it to the public. Therefore, I would ask for a little more humility, more modesty and finally a turnaround, a change of regime in Gypsy politics that Hungarian society would otherwise deserve. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-22-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Among other things, Congressman, you have asked for transparency in the government regarding this European Union project, I also think about other projects of the National Roma Municipality. I believe that the government has been exemplary in this regard, since we have given access to the documents, the grant contracts and other documents of this proposal which have been produced and which concern the use of European Union public funds, to all our fellow Members who have so requested. Whether they could come from the LMP, they must have come from there, I don't know if they came from the Jobbik or not, but everyone had the opportunity to go in there, look at all the documents they wanted, read, scan, review, and ask questions where appropriate. [[9.40]] But there was no document that we would have kept from this case. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Only an invoice!]] And we wouldn't have introduced you all. As opposed to what I understand best about Jobbik's party foundation, you can read in the papers. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] that there, though the foundation of all other parties was public and could be learned about, this is as mysterious as the past of Béla Kovács [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dóra Dúró: It's public! Intercoms from Jobbik: You can't read!]] We don't know what happened at the party foundation. All the other parties have been made public. I've only read on the news that you have kept some management data from the public. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] As for the work programme of the ORÖ. Bridge, honourable Member, you know very well, I think you have spoken here in Parliament several times, as well as other Members, that increased attention has been paid to this project, and that is why we have launched more monitoring visits and investigations to determine exactly what has happened in this project, and there is a part that cannot be financed, there is a part where there has been an irregularity. For this reason, since these investigations were launched in time during the project, we have been able to find a way to avoid wasteful or irregular spending in any way, thus reducing the technical content of the project and reducing its budget, and finally closing this project with a reduced budget compared to the original plans. There were elements that were realised, such as the establishment of the National Employment Cooperative, which should be recognised, the training of 2 thousand people in the social economy related competence was also achieved, and these were paid in a regular manner. At present, the cooperative is operating with 730 people and is thus able to fulfil the integration tasks for which the project was created. The aid amount for the project has been reduced by half compared to the previous one. In total, an irregularity of HUF 272 million was found, and we ordered the beneficiary to repay HUF 228 million. In the case of five decisions, they have applied for an appeal, the appeal has been forwarded to the central coordination body, and then a final decision will be taken. So here, I believe, we have managed to fix the amount of aid and the performance achieved in a proportionate manner. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Roma Municipality has been subject to an audit by the State Audit Office of Hungary between 1 January 2010 and 30 June 2014. The Court found that, with the operating and media support received in the years 11 and 13, the municipality was cleared in the framework of the annual accounts, that the sponsor had not established irregular payments and that there was no obligation to repay. According to the SAO, the municipality's asset recovery activities comply with the legal requirements in respect of the decision-making powers, and also recognised the establishment of the SAO under the Employment Cooperative Cooperative Act and other legal requirements. However, as regards other projects, I am also able to inform the Member that the woman is the chance - in terms of a programme for the training of a thousand Roma women, which started on 1 July 2012, the original plan was involving 1750 people, but instead it was able to involve 2500. Instead of training thousands of people, 1107 people were trained, 1012 people received this qualification instead of 750 successful graduates, and 45 events were held in the project instead of 40 events. A total of 257 persons were trained as a caregiver and caregiver, which meant 10 months of training, after 329 3 months of training for children and youth, 38 persons as a social assistant also with 10 months of training, a kindergarten nurse with 357 children, a caregiver and educator for 31 people. Let us not forget these results when we talk about these projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilárd István Németh of the Fidesz Group spoke before the agenda on the title of illegal immigration. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-09-22-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán concluded his speech before the agenda yesterday: . Finally, I ask you to support the Hungarian Government in the fight against mass immigration, regardless of party affiliation, because there is only one country, and it is our duty to protect it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, not all political parties and factions in the parliamentary horseshoe took it seriously if I were to put it very gently, this request to the Hungarian Prime Minister and, in practice, several times during yesterday, they gave examples of how to oppose the interests of the Hungarian people, how to stand on the side of the migrants who infest our country illegally. If we just look at the Prime Minister's report, thanking police officers, soldiers, officials who carry out border surveillance tasks and migration tasks, by the way. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He didn't thank me! That's not true.]] and, of course, the work of charitable and civil society organisations, the Prime Minister said that they would even receive state aid [[Zoltán Proud: Kissers!]] And yesterday, virtually all-out left-wing media burst into the Prime Minister's sentences, saying that wasn't true. Well, please, the 1659/2015 was published in the Hungarian Gazette last week. CHAPTER IX Government decree of 15 October, in which the Prime Minister grants the three members of the Charity Council state aid of HUF 200 million precisely to carry out migration tasks, to help migrants arriving in our country, to three organisations whose relations have been settled, which are members of the Charity Council, and which gained practice and established a link in 2013 in connection with the floods in Vojvodina. The Prime Minister did not say that money should be given to organisations with all kinds of irregular backgrounds, to organisations with foreign support, but to those who are reliable, who have long and very extensive experience of this task, and who will be able to fully account for the public money, which the Constitution also says is only eligible for organisations with a clean background. But here was our bill, which was about involving the military in carrying out border guard duties, giving the police extra licenses in such a strange situation. You also voted against this last day, and all three of the guarantees you have asked for, which you have constantly mentioned, one is the use of weapons, the other is the entry into private homes, the third is the non-compliance of the police's licenses, all three are given guarantees in the law or are not included in this legislation. You have said that it is not a guarantee to involve the defence, because the border lock, the technical border lock, the living protection, the legal protection that we use at the Serbian-Hungarian border is practically useless. I have yesterday's data in my hand that 84 people crossed the Serbian border illegally, so there were 84 arrests. We remember that a week ago, 9328 people were captured, 84 yesterday; and where the defence system has not yet been fully built to handle the migrants arriving in Hungary, 3235 captures took place yesterday. So all of what you're saying has failed on the basis of these figures. So reality is not in a thank-you relationship with what the Hungarian left says. And today we have a Parliamentary resolution proposal, a message to the leaders of the European Union, in which we also ask nothing but to finally open their eyes, finally hear people's voices, put their migrant policy on a new footing and finally act. Today, we will find out what the Left thinks about illegal immigration, whose side it is on. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.50]]
u2015-09-22-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said. [[It's constant noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to allow the voice of the Secretary of State to fill the room. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-22-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mass migration to Europe, mass migration to Hungary, and the supply of this mass migration seems inexhaustible. Millions of people from Syria, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan are on the road, millions of people are on their way to Europe, especially in the hope of a better livelihood. Moreover, they were invited from Europe, Germany, to go to Germany. Dear Parliament, When the government perceived the danger of this mass migration, asked the Hungarian people, asked 12 questions in national consultation, and more than one million people gave a clear answer, they replied that Hungary should be protected, and that Hungary should be protected by the government. That is why the government decided in June to establish a temporary security barrier at the southern border, and the legislative proposals submitted to Parliament in early September, at the extraordinary meeting on 3-4 September, which was intended to provide legal protection and, on the other hand, to provide lively protection for the protection of the southern border. Despite the votes of left-wing parties, the Parliament adopted legislative proposals which, on the one hand, provide increased criminal protection for the established border closure, allow the police to act with greater means against illegal immigrants and have been negotiated by Parliament, but could not then adopt the two-thirds of the laws that give the police greater means and allow the defence to contribute to the protection of the southern border. Ladies and Gentlemen, As was said at yesterday's Parliamentary meeting, and as you said, Mr President, thanks to the new rules at the Hungarian-Serbian border, which entered into force on 15 September, we can say that the introduction of the triple protection was effective, because, as Mr President said, the number of illegal migrants has decreased significantly to a fraction, and these numbers are encouraging for the future. Of course, we must settle into a long battle, because, as I said, the replacement of this illegal migration, mass migration, seems to be almost inexhaustible today, and the European Union does not have an appropriate response to what should be done. We believe - and the government has repeatedly made this clear - that the primary duty of the EU Member States is to protect the Schengen border. Hungary fulfils this obligation and protects the southern border. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is important for the European Union to provide the right answers to these questions, to the issues of mass migration, and to ensure primarily the protection of borders. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The most important thing would be for the European Union, the bodies of the European Union, to decide to protect the Greek border. If Greece cannot or does not want to protect this border, this very important border, since illegal migrants enter the European Union in the first place, needs joint EU action. As regards yesterday's votes, it is regrettable that left-wing parties repeatedly did not support Hungary's defence of its borders by all legal means. The Hungarian people expect Parliament to establish rules, laws that allow the Hungarian forces available to take part in the protection of the border, in this case it would have meant allowing the assistance of the defence. It is regrettable that left-wing parties did not vote for this. I believe that, as in the referendum on 5 December 2004, they will be forced to explain later why they did not do so, why they did not vote in favour of these very important laws. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government, Hungary, is determined to protect Hungarian families and protect Hungary. And allow me to thank the police, border police, the Hungarian border police, the Hungarian border police, for protecting Hungary, for protecting Hungarian families and for protecting the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is the H/5984 message for the leaders of the European Union. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The summary amendment of the Legislative Committee's proposal is H/598/6 and H/598/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/598/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/598/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] It follows that Act C of 2014 amending Act C on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will be T/4850. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4850 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 112 votes in favour, 33 against and 27 abstentions. The next step is the T/4849 on public procurement. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4849/55 and T/4849/56. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments 12, 13 and 19, the MSZP Group 4 and 6 and Jobbik Group 31, 32 and 48. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 12 is proposed by András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 112 against and 26 abstentions. Amendment 13 is also proposed by András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 110 against and three abstentions. [[10.00]] Amendment 19 is also proposed by Mr Schiffer, Mr Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 113 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 112 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Mr Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 45 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 31 is proposed by Mr István Apáti and Mr Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 145 against and four abstentions. István Apáti and Gábor Staudt are also proposals for Amendment 32. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 142 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 48 is also proposed by István Apáti and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 145 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4849/55. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes in favour, 59 against and 5 abstentions. In view, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment, the qualified majority of the bill submitted has been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/484960. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 64, with no abstentions. It follows that T/6241 on the resolution of issues relating to the conversion of claims from certain consumer loan contracts into forints follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6241/6, and T/6241/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6241/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 63 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6241. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 115 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 61 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/6281. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In doing so, he proposes that Mr László Horváth, Fidesz, Vice-President, Csaba Hende, Mr Fidesz, representative, Mr Péter Ágh, Mr Fidesz, instead of Mr László Horváth Fideszes, be elected as a member of the committee to replace Ferenc Papcsák Fideszes as Vice-President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal with 178 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of our decision. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain capital market and insurance laws will follow up until closure. The submission was made in T/6132. Available to all of them on the IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. We'll wait for Minister to get up on the platform, because Minister will tell you his expo from here. Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister. [[10.10]]
u2015-09-22-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill is to incorporate certain EU legislation into domestic law and to strengthen financial consumer protection. Both objectives are of particular importance, since the transposition task resulting from legal harmonisation must also continue to comply in Hungary as a result of our EU obligation, that is to say, continuous EU legislation. The need to strengthen financial consumer protection, also taking into account recent broker scandals, also needs no explanation, which is a permanent task for the development of regulation in the financial sector. I would like to stress that this dual objective cannot be separated from each other: we are transferring EU legislation into the Hungarian legal order, taking into account the specificities and interests of the domestic financial sector, but also addressing consumer protection issues as a priority. Dear House, The bill before you initiates the amendment of several laws on financial matters in order to achieve the above-mentioned objectives. These provisions concern, on the one hand, the capital market and, on the other, the insurance sector. The legislative proposal seems to be shorter, but it still contains cardinal regulatory points. The provisions of the Capital Markets Act on securities issuers and the information they publish are amended in accordance with the amended Directive, which was revised and adopted two years ago at EU level. The provisions will ensure greater harmonisation in the European Union Single Market, which will increase investor confidence, increase competition and result in a more efficient securities market. A more uniform framework will also be established for supervisory sanctions, which have been harmonised at a minimum level, which are most national. Allow me to highlight some of the capital market changes following the provisions of the directive. Issuers of securities placed on the market shall inform their investors of their financial situation within the framework of their regular obligation to provide information. The proposal ensures that this information will remain publicly available for a period of not five years but ten years in the future, thus enabling investors to be better protected and better informed, thus giving them the opportunity to make a more prudent decision on their investment goals. The provisions on the deadline for the publication of half-yearly reports will also be amended in accordance with Union standards and Union rules on the calculation, notification and publication of voting rights relating to certain securities will be transposed. An important element of the new regulation is the change in the financial supervision sanctioning toolbox, which appears as an amendment to the central bank law. Among these new provisions, it should be pointed out that the maximum fine for securities issuers in breach of the obligation to publish regular information is significantly increased. Just to give you an example: for issuers of securities who violate the obligation to publish annual reports, for example, the maximum amount that can be imposed will increase from HUF 2 billion up to HUF 3 billion. Dear House, Insurance plays an increasingly important role among financial services in Hungary. The insurance area, more specifically, the 2014 LXXXVIII on insurance activities announced at the end of last year. The primary objective of the amendment to the law is to ensure that the so-called Solvency II. A number of clarification and additional provisions relating to the transposition of the Directive should become part of the legislation which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. As the government is increasingly striving to provide people with as thorough, professional and comprehensive information as possible in the field of financial services, we are proposing amendments to consumer protection aspects which are not closely linked to the transposition of the directive. One of the key objectives of the new regulation is to increase consumer safety and information even when deciding their finances in the form of self-care or savings insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the amendment for the benefit of customers, if the system of tax credits or tax credits that can be used in respect of existing insurance contracts changes, insurance undertakings may, within 60 days, propose to the customer a change in the contract that allows the customer to benefit from the benefit; this is an important customer-friendly measure. The client will have 30 days to refuse the proposed amendment, and even if he decides to do so, the insurer cannot terminate the contract. If the client does not do anything until the end of the 30th day, the contract will be amended as proposed and the customer can benefit from the tax relief without further action. The proposal also sets out a guarantee rule for the protection of customers' investment money for so-called unit-linked life insurance, i.e. unit-linked life insurance. According to this amendment, the insurer may only register an investment unit that has actually been invested, so that it can be avoided that the insurance undertaking may virtually register the money that the insurance undertaking has taken away from the various costs, fees and commissions as if it had actually invested in the client's benefit. In order to ensure the preparedness and professional reliability of insurance intermediaries, the proposal also lays down additional rules on the training requirements of insurance intermediaries, which facilitate more effective supervision work. Adapting to modern technology, in the interests of simplification and environmental protection, we also allow insurance companies and insurance intermediaries to inform people on a durable medium, if the client explicitly contributes to this. So I would like to stress that the customer's contribution is also necessary for this kind of information to be implemented. Dear Parliament, The insurance law also changes the rules of the insurance secret. The proposal amends the obligation to keep an insurance secret so that the auditor can have full access to the data necessary for his work. The proposal also allows data relating to the insurance contract to be obtained by the financial institution whose claim is linked to that insurance contract. The proposal also lays down guarantee rules in this regard. Dear House, The proposal also lays down security rules for the management of insurance undertakings, as it provides that the insurance undertaking or the reinsurance undertaking must employ the person responsible for managing investments in the case of own funds management. The proposal also details the training requirements and tasks of this person. In addition, the insurance undertaking and the reinsurance undertaking will be obliged to keep the funds necessary for their continued operation in a credit institution account, but will not be required for its continued operation but will be required to keep its investment funds in an account held by a depositary. The amendment also states that life insurance contracts should be calculated in such a way that they are sufficient to meet all the obligations of the insurance undertaking. We will also further strengthen the professional competence and business reliability requirements of senior managers working at insurance companies. Dear House, The elimination of insurance fraud is in the interest of all insured persons and insurance companies. In order to ensure a more efficient exchange of data between insurers, the proposal sets out amendments and clarifications. [[10.20]] The change does not affect the consent of the holder of the transfer of personal data, but only concerns the information relating to the insurance events of the property in question, thereby creating the possibility of multiple payment of the amount of compensation and thus of detecting the damage to the community of danger. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the purpose of the submitted bill is to transfer changes to the capital market and insurance sector that are necessary through implementation obligations and to further strengthen the financial intermediary system. Once again, the legislative amendment proposal contains, although small, cardinal regulatory points that strengthen consumers' rights. The provisions aim at maintaining the safety and stability of the two sectors and provide a balanced, consumer-friendly environment and institutional functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask you to please discuss the proposed laws and, if possible, to support them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-09-22-22	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speaker's speech. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Dénes Galambos. I give you the floor, please, Congressman, 15 minutes is the time frame.
u2015-09-22-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We have legislation on harmonisation, as the rapporteur, Minister Mihály Varga, indicated in his exposé. It is intended to transpose the EU directives on capital markets and insurance activities into domestic legislation, while at the same time the aim of the regulation is to strengthen consumer protection both in the capital markets and in the insurance sector. To this end, the bill contains amendments to the Capital Markets Act, the Insurance Act, the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, as well as to the law on forms of collective investment. In the area of insurance, European Community Directive No 138 of 2009, also known as Solvency II. A directive lays down, inter alia, that the main purpose of insurance and reinsurance regulation and supervision is to ensure the proper protection of policyholders and beneficiaries. The term "beneficiary" in this case covers all natural and legal persons who have rights under an insurance contract. Financial stability and fair and stable markets are one of the objectives of both insurance and reinsurance regulation and supervision. In this context, the insurance undertaking shall notify its client of the proposed amendment to the contract. In so doing, one of the variables of the Insurance Act states that if the tax benefit or tax credit that can be used after the insurance contract changes, insurance undertakings shall, within 60 days, develop a contract amendment that will continue to allow the benefit to be used. The insurance law also changes the rules of the insurance secret. Currently, the outsourced operator does not need to keep the insurance secret. The amendment also extends this to the auditor and to the data necessary for the performance of audit tasks. Overall, the amendments introduced into the Insurance Act serve to improve the security of customers' money and guarantee that in the event of an insurance event, it is not possible for customers to have access to the insurance product. The other part of the amending package also amends the Capital Markets Act. Allow me to briefly remind you of the domestic history of the regulation of the capital market, and then to address the motivations of the European Union and the most important changes made by the bill. CXX of 2001 on the capital market. The Act was published on 25 December 2001 and entered into force on 1 January 2002. The current capital market law did not only aim to replace and modernise certain provisions on the securities market, but also to consolidate the comprehensive provisions of the capital market, which had previously been published in certain sub-laws, and to settle similar institutions in accordance with the same rules. The Capital Markets Act basically replaced the rules laid down in the former Securities Act and other smaller laws. Even then, the law was called for by a number of demands, along with the natural need for accession and harmonisation of laws to the European Union, the harmonisation of existing market provisions, the need for a uniform regulation of certain financial and capital market activities, and the solution to the problem that had arisen in practice and required legal settlement, played a role in the preparation of the new law. Since then, the law has been subject to minor changes in order to follow changes in the market as well as EU directives. This is also the case now, the Union's aim is to ensure transparency in securities issues and, in agreement with the aim, to adapt domestic legislation to this. The 2013 EU Directive No 50 points out, inter alia, that the administrative burden on small and medium-sized issuers relating to the obligations relating to admission to trading on a regulated market should be limited in order to improve access to capital for those issuers. The obligation to publish interim management reports or quarterly financial reports places a significant burden on a number of small and medium-sized issuers whose securities have been admitted to regulated markets but do not allow for publication. Market participants are expected to pay greater attention to the reporting of small and medium-sized issuers as a result of regulation, thereby making issuers more visible. The legislation states that the report on the amounts paid to businesses to governments does not take into account the amounts paid not exceeding EUR 100 000 in a financial year, regardless of whether it is a single amount or several similar amounts. Furthermore, in order to clarify the rules on non-listed securities represented by a deposit certificate admitted to trading on a regulated market and to avoid any lack of transparency, it was necessary to define the concept of issuer more precisely. That's what the law does. The Directive amends the definition of the issuer in order to allow issuers of securities admitted to trading on a regulated market in each Member State to be natural persons. The bill clarifies which Member State is the home Member State for each issuer or includes provisions for third country issuers. The bill will also modify the deadline for the publication of half-yearly reports, taking into account issuers present at the same time on several EU markets. Under the current rules, the six-month report should be published within two months of the reporting period. In the future, this period will increase to three months. In its third element, the bill is CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. I would like to refer to its provisions concerning the law. Here, in this context, the proposed change states that the supervision of European long-term investment funds is carried out by the MNB and that this is being implemented in this part of the bill. The amendment also transposes into the Hungarian legal order the new sanctions introduced by the EU Directive in the event of breaches of information obligations. The maximum fine is set at a maximum of EUR 10 million for enterprises and a maximum amount of EUR 2 million for natural persons should be converted at the official rate of HUF 298,48 on 26 November 2013 at the date of entry into force of the directive. Taking these three areas into account and not detailing the rest of the bill, I would like to conclude by saying that the above amendments also meet these needs by complying with the legislative harmonisation rules of the EU directives. I ask this House to support these three important elements of the bill by conducting the debate and to adopt it in order to ensure that we can apply safe and good rules in this area as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.30]]
u2015-09-22-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, It is a great honour for this House to greet Minister Mihály Varga personally and to present such a major law. [[Mihály Varga: I understand the irony!]] This is all the more important, because he is also responsible for a certain Quaestor scandal, which is officially the damage to the supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank, but if he is not now a minister, György Matolcsy is still the minister, or someone else, and György Matolcsy is not the President of the National Bank, and they do not enforce such an extremely risky situation, that the entire capital market supervision, insurance supervision for the Hungarian National Bank, is being organised under the supervision of such a skeptical president, to say the Hungarian banking system, perhaps the Quaestor scandal or broker scandals would not have caused such extremely serious damage to consumers, both the budget and the Hungarian banking system. So the fact that Minister Mihály Varga considers it important now to present this legislative harmonisation proposal personally to Parliament is, I think, absolutely appropriate. It must be recognised that it assumes its responsibility to have a serious opportunity, responsibility and responsibility for the effective, regulated functioning of this area by creating capital markets and insurance laws. So this part, if you like it, is a criticism of the supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank and a kind of positive statement on the Ministry's commitment to the Minister's duties, although he has put forward this legislative harmonisation law late. It could have been brought here much sooner, and it would probably have been possible to ease the damage to the Quaestor scandal. Probably, if there had been a law in Hungary with years or much similar strictness, better protection of consumers, stricter control of emissions activities, Quaestor would not have been able to overbook its own emissions by HUF 150 billion. We remember that he was granted a security license for HUF 60 billion from financial supervision, and he overbooked it by over 150 billion, and issued a security issue for a total of HUF 210 billion, and he even wrote that he would not guarantee it. So if the custody were doing a little bit, say, a trial buy and took control of one of these securities that were subsequently deemed false, you could have prevented this on the go. Or, if the requirements for authorising emissions are stricter, such damage could be prevented. It is very important that the Minister of National Economy, in this case Mihály Varga, feels the weight of this task and has brought this bill to us. With the indication in the proposal that the aim of the proposal is to strengthen consumer protection by transposing EU legislation into the Hungarian legal order, this is appropriate. The need to amend the Capital Markets Act, the Insurance and Insurance Act, the Act on the National Bank of Hungary and the Insurance Act for EU harmonisation reasons is appropriate, so it was once put together in a bill. In terms of substance, it became necessary to define the definition of the home Member State in order to comply with the EU directive on information on issuers of securities when amending the Capital Markets Act. The bill clarifies the Member State of residence for each issuer and includes provisions for third country issuers. The law states that the information subject to regular information, as the national mentioned, must be publicly available for a period of 10 years. It clarifies the scope of annual and half-yearly reports and the possible ways of exceptions to them for issuers of securities with a nominal value of at least EUR 100 thousand. In future, only securities issuers admitted to trading on a regulated market should be exempted at all. It also amends the deadline for the publication of half-yearly reports, and the six-month report should be published within three months of the reporting period in the future. This is a standard measure that is likely to improve traceability. As regards the Insurance Act, Solvency II has been in force in the European Union since 2009 the requirements of the submission are transferred to the domestic legal order. According to the amendment of the Insurance Act, if the tax benefit or tax credit that can be used after the insurance contract changes, insurance undertakings must, within 60 days, develop an amendment to the contract allowing them to continue to benefit from the statutory rate of the benefit. The insurance undertaking must notify its client of the proposed amendment to the contract. The client will have 30 days to refuse the amendment, even if he chooses to do so, the insurance company will not be able to terminate the contract. If, on the other hand, the client does not do anything until the end of the 30-day period, then his contract will continue with the amendments proposed by the insurance undertaking, with the principle of silence enforced. This amendment has a consumer protection effect, ensuring that the policy holder cannot be placed in a situation where the policy holder would break the law in the event of a changed law, the insurance undertaking must ensure that this transfer is carried out, the policyholder may refrain from such modification or, if he does not want to change it, his contract is still in the new circumstances. Thus, a passive behaviour is sufficient for the policyholder to comply with the changed laws, and the bill does not force active behaviour in terms of consumer protection. In our opinion, this is a step forward. In the future, the life insurance premium should be calculated in such a way that it is sufficient to meet all the obligations of the insurer. This is also a consumer protection approach, so that there is no ex post charge for such additional costs for the insurance company. The draft also mentions the obligation to provide technical provisions. There's a change in the rules of the insurance secret. There's a gap in the bill. Currently, the outsourced operator does not need to keep the insurance secret, and the amendment therefore extends the obligation of homogeneous confidentiality to auditors and to the data required to carry out audit tasks. [[10.40]] After all, this could help outsourcing, because so far it may have been an obstacle to outsourcing the audit activities of certain insurance companies that the related organisation was not obliged to comply with the insurance secret in the case of outsourced activities. This is also a transfer of life's experience. In order to enable issuers and investors to fully understand the ownership structure of the companies, it becomes clear that the disclosure obligation applies to all financial instruments the economic impact of which is similar to the holding of shares and the rights to acquire shares; therefore, it constitutes a right of property value. With regard to unit-linked life insurance, it lays down a guarantee rule for keeping an insurance undertaking's register, rules for submission, of course by adopting EU rules. It introduces the possibility of providing information on a durable medium, which is a step forward towards the opportunities offered by electronic society, and sets a deadline for the insurance undertaking to communicate changes. It clarifies the scope of commission-drip rules and commission-payment rules for savings life insurance. It simplifies the submission that the supplementary activity which the insurance broker may carry out is not required to be reported in the supervisory register and can be carried out in his own professional supervisory capacity. The third major area of the submitted bill, the amendment of the Hungarian National Bank Act, states that the supervision of European long-term investment funds is carried out by the Hungarian National Bank. The amendment also transposes into the Hungarian legal order the new sanctions introduced by the EU Directive in the event of breaches of information obligations. This has already been mentioned by Minister Mihály Varga, who is referring to the maximum fine of EUR 10 million to be imposed on businesses and to the maximum amount of EUR 2 million for natural persons. The conversion shall take place on the date of entry into force of the Directive, i.e. 26 November 2013, at the official exchange rate of the euro, i.e. 298, HUF 48 pennies, the limit for the imposition of the penalty shall be converted. In addition, the provision extends the scope of the supervisory fee. As I said in the introduction to my speech, the largely EU legislative harmonisation proposal before us can be supported. So what's in there is appropriate. Now, a dilemma for the opposition is that what is not in it is an assessment of the experience of, for example, the Quaestor scandal, the prevention of the 150 billion-dollar damage caused by Quaestor, that these experiences, since we already have such a bill before us, should not be dealt with by the author, why it should not be enforced in the framework of this legislation. So our dilemma is that this legislation is eligible, but not enough. This year, in assessing the Hungarian situation, was the year of these series of damages, frauds and crimes called broker scandals, the most serious of which was the 150 billion of Quaestor. Why doesn't the legislator process this and enforce it? I am now taking the position in front of Parliament that we will support this proposal, but at the same time in every speech we urge you to evaluate the experience of broker scandals and to adopt as quickly as possible rules specific to Hungarian operations - let us say that the issuer, as in this case Quaestor, cannot be trusted - that every emission phase, let us say, has to carry out a mandatory information task, a sample of the bond, because if this had happened, a competent professional will see that the market has been flooded with false bonds. So, to sum up my comments, we will support you, but we look forward to further legislation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-09-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When the government decided to submit amendments to certain capital market and insurance laws, it complied with its obligation of the European Union. The European Union can create rights in a variety of ways. The most well-known and easiest, perhaps, when it forms a decree, and this regulation will automatically be part of every nation's legislation without any kind of transposition. The guidelines don't behave that way. The Directives are a means of harmonization. In a directive, the European Union, as a legislator, sets objectives and expectations in a given area of law, and it is up to national parliaments to transpose them into a national legal order, i.e. to implement them. This is what we are dealing with here, which is why I say that the negotiation of the law and the transposition of the amended directives are also an obligation. These are amended directives, not new legislation. As has been said several times, this basically concerns two areas: capital markets and insurance activities. It is worth listing which laws will be amended in this way. First, the 2001 capital market CXX. Act CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary, Act 2003 on Insurance and Insurance. Act XIV of 2014 on forms of collective investment and their managers and amending certain laws on financial matters Act and Act LXXXVIII of 2014 on Insurance Activities Law to a lesser or greater extent. The speakers and Minister before me have also said in his expo that, in addition to transposition, i.e. implementation, which is mandatory, the legislator also aims to strengthen consumer protection aspects. I highlight some important things from the changing provisions. I think that more accurate and complete information on the issuer of the securities is important in the future in the regulation of the capital market, and this information remains available for ten years. This clearly increases the opportunities and awareness of financial service providers. The rules on reporting obligations are also changing. For these new rules to apply, therefore, the sanctioning toolbox of the Hungarian National Bank as a supervisory institution will increase, especially if it sees shortcomings in information and information provision by means of a higher fine. Insurance companies, as Minister said, are increasingly involved in the financial market, and it is therefore important to strengthen consumer protection aspects in this market as well. [[10.50]] When we buy financial services, we often feel as customers that we are weaker players than insurance companies, we often suffer from a lack of information, so this legislative proposal makes changes that give customers, the weaker players, additional opportunities. It is also important that the additional conditions of professional competence of managers are laid down in the law. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the adoption of the package of laws tabled is justified and that it is in the interests of consumers on the financial market, and that the KDNP fraction therefore supports the adoption of the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-29	Mr President, Dear House, We are looking at our usual European Union gift package, which is, after all, an implementation package, according to which Hungary's government wants to take over certain achievements of Community law with elements that can be supported in some cases. To this end, it calls for amendments to the Capital Markets Act, the Insurance Act, the MNB Act and the Collective Investment Forms Act. Indeed, it is timely for certain amendments to be made. If, just one point, the legislator would point out to us that in the case of insurance secrecy we should make changes and, let us say, companies carrying out outsourced activities, such as audit companies, should be faced with clauses on the same insurance secret, then we can say that it would be worth supporting it in itself. But what really strikes me is that from the European Union's system, you want to take over a lot of so-called achievements and a lot of clauses, but what we see is that, in the meantime, a great deal of them could have been settled in their own jurisdiction earlier, possibly preventing a series of so-called broker scandals, preventing the Quaestor scandal. I would like to remind you that if only the more than twenty amendments tabled by the better Members had been adopted to regulate the relevant market, not only the Quaestor scandal, but all similar scandals would have been prevented. Therefore, it would be worth listening not only to the European Union, waiting for it, transposing it, but also to act on its own authority, where appropriate. Precisely because the justification has repeatedly come up, this makes sense in order to strengthen the system of consumer protection. On a symbolic basis, even in the previous cycle, there was an independent consumer protection committee, which you have integrated into the many other topics of the Economic Committee, so that even at this level the weight and role of consumer protection has been reduced, and now we see that since some of its branches have been placed under the National Bank of Hungary, they have achieved, in the context of the various mergers, that their own-led organisation is actually responsible for this, and that the consumer protection itself has been damaged. We welcome these cosmetic changes, at least some of them, such as the fact that customers will have 30 days to reject the proposed amendment, and if they so decide, the insurance company will no longer be able to terminate their contract. Maybe there's no sane person who would argue seriously against such a proposal. It should also be said that, with regard to the fixing of maximum fines, we are pleased not only with a fine of up to EUR 10 million for businesses, but also with certain detailed rules being clarified in this respect. At the same time, a continuous increase in the weight of the MNB can be seen. If we look at the fact that the MNB is also responsible for the supervision of European long-term investment funds, then we should stop for a few words. On the one hand, we are pleased that the MNB now has a supervisory board. This was a multi-annual deficiency, and an amazing omission that has made this entire asset system incomplete. Let us see how this supervisory board was finally set up, since it could have been in more peaceful and normal circumstances, but if it did, let us be glad to have it. However, we need to see - exactly yesterday, the debate on the bill on the forinting of car credits, on which it was rightly noted - that the MNB has once again realised only ten billion as a practical benefit. There was a 50-60 billion-dollar item in the debate, and let us not forget that in the case of the forinting of so-called housing loans, a huge mass of 100 billion-dollar magnitude also appeared as a profit for the MNB. However, if the MNB Act is already touched, it would be absolutely justified that this amount be channeled in some way, not necessarily directly, into the budget. Although we know that this would not be possible in principle, it would be possible to create a compensation fund, where appropriate, which would not only help the most difficult credit victims, whose families or their lives went on to stall your time, on the one hand, and on the other hand to the amazing negligence of the former socialist governments, on the other hand, but it should also be said that, in addition to such a compensation fund, other funds could have been created, for example, the financial institutions concerned could have been required to make payments in the same way, after having examined the abuses they had committed by case type and associated with a sanctioning system. Unfortunately, this has not been done. Once again, we regard this as an amazing omission, but we also need to see that the value of these cosmetic changes and amendments is not substantially impaired. Again, it's about what's missing from this package. And when we talk about this, we can certainly see that they want to carry out a more efficient exchange of data in order to detect insurance fraud, and here they indicate changes and clarifications. That's good. And it is also an absolute good direction to decide on the appropriate level of remuneration for life insurance contracts and to huddle around this area. But what we need to see is that if we were talking about investor protection, we wouldn't have had a Quaestor scandal or a broker scandal in a normal economy and in a normal market environment. If the system of financial consumer protection were to function normally, you would not have to deal with the damage relief or partial damage relief, but would be able to rally this system on a proactive basis in the interests of all Hungarian voters, all Hungarian so-called consumers or banking customers, injured, investors. But what we see is that when it comes to investor protection, it usually protects the big investors, the interests of multi-company companies, and the simple injured, who, let's say, are now not as good as you try to paint it as a car credo, but if you have a loan of free use, you'll be wiped out for good, well, we see that action in their behalf is not at least incomplete, but it tends to be truncated, usually with a multi-annual phase delay, and it costs families their lives, it costs existential. Therefore, I say that these cosmetic amendments are eligible, but this is very little for systemic change. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-22-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said many times today, the bill before us is largely about adopting EU directives and transposing them into Hungarian law. I must be critical of the fact that the transposition of a directive on transparency took two years for the government, while it could beat constitutional amendments to Parliament in two days. Looks like it wasn't that urgent. And even less urgent was Solvency II. transposition of a directive. The deadline for the adoption of the 2009 directive is 1 January 2016, so the government is now obliged to amend the law. We would like to ask what took so long, why we could not take over the regulation in six years. Solvency II The Directive provides for stricter capital requirements, internal risk assessments for insurers and increases disclosure and transparency conditions. It creates the same conditions as other countries of the European Union in a sector in Hungary. None of these are liked by the Hungarian government. The importance of strict capital requirements is not understood, and you can see how the Quaestor case has been handled in recent years. In terms of transparency and more stringent consumer protection, he also prefers to make a selective rule so that the machinations and murky business of those close to the government are not revealed. In general, the government does not like to have to operate under the same rules as the entire European area. He likes to benefit from the loopholes, the weaker regulation, he thinks it's in the country's best interest to maintain such competitive advantages. [[11.00]] Strengthening supervision would also be an important step in the area of insurance. Unfortunately, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has already proven that it is not at its height. His professional background is insufficient, his investigations are biased, his decisions are rebellious. Not in the insurance area, but his activity has contributed to people being harmed by hundreds of billions of dollars. The broker scandals, the Quaestor case, have shown that the MNB is not able to provide this area properly. And part of the reason he can't do it is because he's intertwined with a corrupt economic elite whose business he wants to hide. The adoption of directives and the strengthening of insurance supervision are therefore important. However, we have doubts that these rules will be properly complied with by the Hungarian National Bank in its current state. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa and Márta Demeter applaud.]]
u2015-09-22-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This would be the first time that independent representatives came forward, and I don't see a candidate. From now on, two-minute speeches are also possible. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you very much. A general debate on the draft law between Hungary and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes is now taking place until closure. I propose T/6010. This number is available to all on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-22-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In July 2015, we entered into an agreement with the Principality of Liechtenstein on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes. The agreement was signed in Vaduz following consultations on the basis of the mandate given by the Prime Minister's resolution and the Government's decision. The application of the Convention precludes double taxation of the income of individuals or businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income or type of property. The Convention gives the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties the opportunity to exchange appropriate information and also to initiate a conciliation procedure in accordance with the Convention for implementation by either Contracting Party. As regards the content of the Hungarian-Lichtenstein Convention, it complies with international practice, the principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary. It is also in line with the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far, and serves well the development of bilateral relations and the interests of investors. Dear Parliament, In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Based on what you've said, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches by the representatives, and in the first round by the keynote speakers. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-22-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Hungarian-Lichtenstein relations are not yet very close, but they have a history. With the Principality of Liechtenstein, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, Károly German-Romanian Emperor founded by decree on 23 January 1719 within the framework of the German-Roman Empire, Hungary as part of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy of the 19th century. From the second half of the century onwards, it stood in a currency union and customs union. The princeship won total independence after the German alliance broke up in 1866. The once poor princeship is a wealthy, rich country today; it is one of Europe's tax havens, so many foreign companies choose it as their seat, and they account for one third of state tax revenues. Despite the small size and limited resources of the country, Liechtenstein has become a constantly developing, highly industrialised country where businesses are supported by the financial and banking sector. In the Dukeship of 160 square miles [160 sq km], the standard of living is higher than that of neighbouring countries larger than that. Marking and tourism are important sources of income, mainly alpine tourism and skiing. The country's transit traffic is great, as it lies on the Paris-Vienna main road. Since 1924, it has been in a currency and customs union with Switzerland and is also responsible for its protection. The relationship between Liechtenstein and the European Union can be compared to Norway and Iceland. Although he is not a member of the European Union, he is a member of the European Economic Area. In this way, it participates in Europe's internal trade to the extent that, alongside Norway and Iceland, it is among the three non-EU countries most integrated in the EU. Relations between Hungary and Liechtenstein reached a turning point in the 1990s. The total settlement of diplomatic relations interrupted by the break-up of the Monarchy took place in June 1993. Liechtenstein and Hungary are members of the European Economic Area and therefore the relationship between the two countries has been governed by the EEA Agreement since 1 May 2004. Following the EEA enlargement, Liechtenstein, like other EEA countries, has made Hungary part of its quota system, which regulates the inflow of foreign workers entering the Princeship. Following the principle of labour market reciprocity, citizens of Liechtenstein need a work permit to work in order to work in Hungary. The most important products of Hungarian exports are tools, aluminium plates, digital integrated circuits. Among the goods imported to Hungary are hand drills, axles and cranks, cards with electronic integrated circuit and electric hand tools. On the occasion of the presentation of the Hungarian book The State in the Third Millennium II. Prince János-Adám of Liechtenstein visited Budapest, who was also received by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. The State Secretary of Higher Education was able to receive a memorial plaque from Pro Cultura Hungarica in recognition of the achievements of Hungarian culture. The treaty before us is yet another thread to strengthen our relations. As the Secretary of State has said, the conclusion of the new tax convention provides a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background for investors of both parties. The main purpose of the Convention is to regulate taxation and make it predictable. It covers income and property taxes. It is important to exclude the possibility of double taxation. The Convention shall ensure full exchange of information and that any Contracting Party may initiate a conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the Convention. The constitutional rules for the conclusion of international treaties and the laws of the order of law provide for the publication of the Convention by law. I would ask for the support of my fellow Members so that this might be possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2015-09-22-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-22-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Convention concluded between Hungary and the Principality of Liechtenstein covers income and property taxes levied by a Contracting State or its local authorities, irrespective of how they are collected. For Hungary, these are personal income tax, corporate tax, land tax and construction tax. In the case of Liechtenstein, personal income tax, corporate tax, real estate, capital gains tax, property tax and coupon tax. The main purpose of the Convention is to regulate taxation and make it predictable in bilateral relations. Its importance is to exclude double taxation of incomes of individuals and businesses by applying it to determine the scope of which parties have the right to taxation in respect of each type of income and type of property. The Convention provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with a full exchange of information and ensures that any Contracting Party initiates a conciliation procedure with the other Party when it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Convention. I do not wish to list separately the articles of the Convention, but I would like to highlight two of them in any way. Pursuant to Article 28, a person resident in one of the Contracting States shall not benefit from the tax reduction or exemption granted under the Convention by the other Contracting State if the other State establishes that one of the primary objectives of such resident person was to obtain the benefits of the Convention. Another very important article that I would like to highlight is that the Convention provides for a full exchange of information under the 2008 OECD Model Convention review, which excludes reference to a lack of domestic interest, and - and this is extremely important - I think it also makes it mandatory to issue bank secrets and information on ownership interests. I would like to point out that the MSZP supports the adoption of this bill. These bilateral agreements are very important. I think that this is of particular importance, and the article I just mentioned about the issue of information on ownership interests, I think that it can play a key role in one of the important events and events of Hungarian economic life and political life, as we have seen what happened in the case of Quaestor. We have seen that one of the owners of Quaestor is a company in Liechtenstein. So we are talking about a brokerage company in which offshore companies are clearly involved as owners, and we have seen that - as has happened in the case of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries - they do have state money in Hungarian: taxpayers' money was held at this company, and so they risked nearly HUF 4 billion of taxpayers' money. It can also be seen that, by the way, on the basis of inside information, this money was taken out at the last minute, but the fact is that it is definitely the responsibility of the Hungarian Government to take advantage of the opportunities that such a treaty before us can provide. We see that the law on national wealth is not a strict regulation at all, because with ownership approval, the authorities have the opportunity to make decisions to keep the Hungarian taxpayers' money in offshore companies, turn it and invest it there. We have seen that the total loss of HUF 330 billion from the Hungarian financial system in the Fidesz broker scandals is almost no trace. Of course, we are constantly waiting for the answer to the question - I think with all the citizens of Hungary and those involved - where this money went. And it is also a fact, my fellow Members, that the rule of law and proper functioning do not begin there, and the idea is wrong, I see, unfortunately, that the government and the majority have the idea that the rule of law consists of legislation and implementation tailored to a person and to a company. That's definitely not true. The appropriate legislative framework, the proper implementation of the conventions, the provision of publicity and proper functioning begin and the rule of law begins when legislation, legislation and their continuous implementation take place in the system of brakes and balances. So we welcome this agreement. We are very curious to know whether the information that can be provided will also be provided to the Hungarian public, and whether the Hungarian public can find out where the ownership background is, so I would mention the case of the Quaestor in particular in Csaba Tarsoly, Péter Szijjártó's very dear friend. We will see if this interest in Liechtenstein reveals its ownership background, or we can expect that this will be classified as well as Csaba Tarsoly's testimony. So I have to say that you may be able to sit back quite still for a few more years, but there will be a time, in any case, when, within the proper legislative framework, all the cases that we have seen in the case of Quaestor will be investigated. And the adoption of the Convention, since this can provide an opportunity for an adequate exchange of information - of course, if the Hungarian party does so - we naturally support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you.
u2015-09-22-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Bana. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement with the Principality of Liechtenstein before us is an extremely important milestone in the fight against double taxation and tax evasion. A few years ago, Liechtenstein was still known as a tax haven, but as of 2014, the country has already imposed a 12.5 percent corporate tax on foreign-owned companies registered in Liechtenstein, which has practically been unsubscribed from the list of tax havens. At the same time, the problem of double taxation remains, among other things. The agreement that we have just negotiated this summer includes the exchange of tax information between tax authorities, which can improve investor confidence, investment, capital flows. Dear Parliament, For these reasons, Jobbik supports the agreement under discussion and we encourage the Government to endeavour to conclude similar agreements with as many countries as possible still functioning as tax havens today. I'm thinking of Andorra, Bermuda or Panama, but we could continue the line for a long time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-09-22-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Global efforts to reduce tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax evasion were met by the Ministry of National Economy's announcement in 2013 that negotiations would be initiated with Andorra, Liechtenstein, the British Virgin Islands, Bermuda and Panama. By the end of November 2013, Hungary already concluded a double taxation agreement with 75 states, including all EU and OECD Member States. Each of these conventions included the possibility to obtain information from the tax authorities of the other country on transactions, assets involving Hungarian taxpayers and on persons behind bank accounts and companies at the request of the NAV. The agreement concluded on 29 June this year contains the guarantee rules that are important for Hungary, such as the possibility of exchanging tax information between tax authorities, which provides a comprehensive exchange of tax information, i.e. including banking secrecy. The agreement may, on the one hand, be capable of detecting potential tax optimizers and restricting benefits, thereby preventing the tax convention's benefits from being used in a targeted way by taxpayers. [[11.20]] Nevertheless, it cannot be said that offshore bank accounts are finished. On the one hand, in the absence of the necessary resources and capacity, the tax authorities are able to detect only a small number of cases - through exchange of information on request - and on the other hand, the tax authorities of several financial centres are consciously slowing down and obstructing compliance with the conventions by all other means. The LMP considers that in the last 25 years there has been a huge outflow of income from the country, in which offshore activity has played a major role. According to credible international estimates, two and a half times the Hungarian government debt was saved in tax havens. In the current government Andy Vajna, the government commissioner responsible for the development of the national film industry, has become a symbol of this offshore policy; we can see the same at the central bank led by György Matolcsy. Last year, the Hungarian National Bank bought the most expensive office building in Budapest for HUF 18 billion from its offshore owner, and this year one of its foundations bought a fork in Svábhegy for 1.3 billion, also from a company with an unclear ownership background, although it is important to protect Hungary from politically anointed knights of offshore money. This policy provides an unfair competitive advantage for some businesses, and because of the tax forints that have fallen, it is not possible to reduce the contributions of Hungarian SMEs. Here I would like to remind the House that the LMP submitted to Parliament for the third time in August this year a package of legislative proposals to exclude offshore companies from the use of public money. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-22-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-22-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is not typical that there is a major debate in Parliament on such a bill; it is not the case now, since, on the basis of what has been said, virtually all parliamentary groups support the bill. However, I must respond to one of the speeches, namely that of the Socialist MEP Márta Demeter, because I think he has sized this speech, so he was not talking about the bill, but rather about Fidesz, who is responsible for the brokerage scandal - I think that I should reject it completely. While he was the only one who welcomed this bill, he did not even fail to threaten the public and the government that the socialists would come and the time would come when the transparency in the area of financial control would occur. [[The intervention of Dr. István Józsa and Márta Demeter.]] That is why I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2004 your government abolished mandatory controls on financial institutions and brokerage firms, periodic checks. Even though you weren't in public life at the time, you should know that the Fidesz government brought back this inspection exercise. And it was not typical in your time that if financial abuses had occurred, there would have been an appeal or no God, justice and punishment. I think that the socialists have no basis in this regard to call the current government to account, because what your activities have been based on since 2004 that there was no control, this was the hotbed of corruption, and it was found exactly during the Fidesz government, and the Fidesz government's control system revealed this, and the hour of truth came. [[The intervention of Márta Demeter and Nándor Gúr.]] Because all three broker scandals have been subject to prior arrests, and the perpetrators of the crime are awaiting their deserved punishment. Therefore, there is no basis for the Member lady to threaten Parliament in relation to the current government's activities on this issue. Of course, we thank you for the subsidies, and I trust that the factions will do the same when voting. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-22-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our fellow Members, János Lázár and L. Simon László Fidesz, T/6158. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. Law defines the rights, obligations and tasks related to cemeteries, burial sites and the provision of burial activities. The current rules impose excessive administrative and other burdens on the keepers of closed cemeteries, i.e. cemeteries in which they cannot be buried, thus reducing these burdens. In our view, the legislation in force does not take due account of the specific requirements of the various religious communities and does not take into account specific rules which are not justified in the case of cemeteries in religious community, state or municipal reservations or in use. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, for closed cemeteries whose closure or for which the last burial has passed for more than 50 years, other regulations are justified. Let me mention some concrete examples of the new legislation. If, for reasons not attributable to the owner, maintainer or operator of the cemetery, previous records of the burial have been destroyed, our proposal is that in the case of the closed cemetery, the statutory registration obligation in the future should not be met by the maintainer or the owner. But such a reduction is also the fact that there will not be a need to dispose of waste. Allow me, fellow Members, to draw your attention to one more thing. If the current owner of the cemetery, cemetery section, tombboard at the place of burial or, at or after 4 June 1920, the owner, maintenance or operator was a religious community whose internal rules prohibit the abolition of a cemetery or burial site, and on the basis of the records available to the owner of the cemetery, the identity of the close relative of the buryer or the buryer cannot be established or deceased, or his place of residence is unknown, the religious community shall have control over the burial site. The duration of the right of provision in this case will not be limited at all. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of this bill is to reduce the burden on the maintenance and owners of closed cemeteries by amending the Law on Cemeteries and Funerals, while at the same time allowing the specific requirements and customs of religious communities to be taken into account in the implementation of certain rights, obligations and tasks related to cemeteries, and to clarify the provisions on the circle of closed cemeteries for which closure or for which more than 50 years have passed from the last burial. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this administrative burden reduction with their vote, and also to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás State Secretary if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State, you have a 30-minute window.
u2015-09-22-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill is supported by the government. It is clear that the proposal facilitates the survival, existence and maintenance of closed cemeteries, which are no longer used for burial, improves the maintenance possibilities and contributes to the preservation of a kind of heritage and cultural heritage through cemeteries, and does not depend on the daily financial framework of the maintainers. It is reasonable to suggest that in the bill the law on burial be narrowed down in these burial sites. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2015-09-22-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the Members and the keynote speakers in the first round. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Kiss. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Both myself and the Socialist Group consider that we have a proposal to replace the gap, which we agree with both its content and its regulatory direction. I think that the question of burial in this country is always a little underrated, because the cemetery is also a memorial place for a community, which is particularly important for religious groups. But if we think about ourselves, then in everyday life, it might be a little important to us too. Therefore, all the objectives set out in the proposal are also eligible for us. It can be supported because we believe that the situation of cemeteries that have been closed or that have not been functioning for many reasons has indeed been corrected. We believe that, indeed, this proposal does what it aims to do, facilitates the rules, facilitates the rules that currently apply to this. That is why, because we also agree with the aim of the proposal, and we believe that the proposal serves this direction, we will certainly support it. Thank you for listening.
u2015-09-22-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6158. Bill No.3 on cemeteries and burials, 1999 XLIII. It amends the law with a view to taking into account the religious customs of the religious community in the future in the performance of certain rights, duties and duties relating to cemeteries and, on the other hand, to clarify the provisions on the circle of closed cemeteries from which more than fifty years have passed. Ladies and Gentlemen, The right to dispose of the burial site shall not be construed if the internal rule of the religious community requires that the cemetery or burial site cannot be abolished and the burial site is exempt from the obligation to pay the replacement fee. On the basis of the above, the current legislation threatens the survival of cemeteries which are subject to the religious requirements set out above, and cannot be identified, deceased or resident by a person, buryer or relative entitled to dispose of the burial site, and the cemetery is not owned by that religious community. Therefore, under the new legislation, if the owner, maintainer or operator of the closed cemetery has been destroyed for reasons not attributable to the destruction of the previous records of the burial site, the statutory registration obligation should no longer be met by the maintenance or owners in the future. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the bill, if the current owner of the burial site cemetery, cemetery section, tombboard or, on or after 4 June 1920, the owner was a religious community whose internal rule prohibits the abolition of a cemetery or burial site, and on the basis of a register available to the owner of the cemetery, the person of the burying or burying close relative cannot be identified or deceased or his place of residence unknown, the religious community shall have the right to dispose of the place of burial in such a way that the duration of the right of provision may not be limited. The amendment provides for the obligation to consult the religious community concerned even in the preparation of the local construction regulations. This allows the installation requirements of a cemetery owned by the religious community to be defined with the utmost regard for religious standards. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports T/6158. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We, too, believe that the bill before us is a reform of the law that is really needed, and that it would have been very much needed in the past. We also share the thoughts, the opinions that these sites must not only meet certain aspects of grace, but that not only should there be grace in the case of some old, closed cemeteries, but that we must look at them as some memorial sites in Hungarian history. That is why we believe that this amendment has a place, and we will support it. I'd like to add that I've been trying to look into this whole circle of thought in preparation for the bill. It seems to me that I have experienced and, in the opinion of experts, I can tell you that in the case of denominations, whether we are talking about Christian or non-Christian denominations, there are written or there are unwritten rules. In the case of unwritten rules, there are general principles of credit, dogmas which can be deduced from the fact that, in a truly non-denominational sense, these sites, these cemeteries which have been declared closed, deserve respect in all cases, should be considered as sacred land, where appropriate. Let me give you a personal example. The settlement from which I came, Budakeszin, there lived a significant Swabian minority, a nationality. After they were deported after World War II, the cemetery they had previously maintained could not be cared for by the relatives. Thank God, there the municipality will do that, and this place is declared protected separately, but in many cases, unfortunately, this does not happen in individual settlements, which is an extraordinary deficiency in my opinion. In the municipal law, the obligation to maintain the public cemeteries could easily include that, in such a case, the municipalities, if they do not have any other intention in that area, and I would add, do not have to, should they have an obligation to maintain these cemeteries. So, on the whole, I can tell you once again that we want to support this bill. Although there is little to say about the freedom of local governments to establish regulations, it would be good to clarify in some way that the installation and incorporation of old closed cemeteries can take place only in very exceptional cases and in fact only if this does not conflict with other religious and piety aspects. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The annual XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. A draft amending act has been reviewed. The position of the political faction of the May Other was primarily that the initiatives were basically eligible, which were formulated in this context. It is obvious that we have been asked why this came as a motion by its representatives, as we would also have been curious to hear the opinion of Mr Miklós Soltész KDNP State Secretary, who basically belongs to all the other ecclesiastical churches, and I said all the rest in this way because it is not known that it is not written anywhere in the legislation, but the wording is that the purpose of the motion is to allow the religious customs of the religious community to be taken into account in the implementation of certain rights, obligations and tasks related to cemeteries, which clearly leads us to the conclusion that abandoned Jewish cemeteries in rural areas may also be in a significant part, which, unfortunately, have fallen into a very neglected state in recent decades. As far as we could understand the law, all three essential sections of the legislation are in which we found eligible elements, in the first part it provides that, if the cemetery is owned by the religious community, the local building regulations of the cemetery must be determined by the body of representatives of the municipality to seek the opinion of the religious community of the cemetery owner. We believe that this is certainly the right and the right goal to support, and we will therefore be able to support this motion, and we will have no objection to that. [[11.40]] The second such proposal, which we have noticed, creates a new category for cemeteries that have not been used for more than 50 years or have been closed for so long. In these cemeteries, it significantly reduces the standards: there are not as many facilities as there are in working cemeteries, and the rules of keeping records will also be easier, the content criteria of the cemetery rule will also be milder; we also consider them eligible and lifelike to be implemented. The third part that we have examined is that in the case of cemeteries belonging to these new categories, owned or managed by a long time ago religious community, or still today, where the religious community's own rules prohibit the abolition of the cemetery, without any redemption fee, and for an unlimited period of time, the religious community may have over the graves of those who are no longer alive or found. Overall, we felt that the motion of the Members was fundamentally eligible, and that the May Other in Politics could help with its vote. On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members and the two petitioners if they do not take this as an intrusion. I recently had the pleasure and opportunity to take part in the renovation of a Wenckheim crypt in Körösladány, which was an uplifting feeling, since the family's former estates in the county of Békés and its impact, its architectural heritage, are quite decisive, and I am therefore very pleased that the Institute of National Heritage, which is responsible for this purpose, has devoted resources to it. In addition to this joy, however, I had to conclude that in many other non-national politicians who have been decisive over the past decades, the same processes, which were partly tabled by the motion, were initiated. Let me give you a concrete example, if you don't mind, that I'm taking these from my narrower country, the Great Community. During the redemption of the Nagykunság, during the redemption process made by Maria Theresa, the redemptus ancestors contributed to the salvation of the Jászkunság, practically as founders of settlements, were influential actors of public life for many decades or a century and a half. In most Kunság cemeteries, these families have created large family crypts, which in themselves are architectural monuments and values, but since they are still in active cemeteries and the family would have a duty to take care of it, which is completely lacking, because in part, in the midst of the political storms of the 20th century, a significant part of these small or wealthy families have come from these lands, they are now largely on the verge of collapse and total degradation. I would like to thank the governing party for trying, in addition to these relatively eligible and noble efforts, energy and even resources, to enable the municipalities to open up the possibility of having the local, municipal or regional heritage of a cemetery, and their source, and even their task. Obviously, not only would it be very good if we respected the funeral habits and religious places of those who died long ago, and there was a source for the government to invest in the preservation of the architectural and cultural heritage in the case of prominent Hungarian public figures and politicians, but it would also be very good to open up the possibility for municipalities in a very poor line, where there is no substantial income from the local business tax and there is no possibility for them to undertake such a public task in addition to the financing of their basic tasks, if there were an incentive for local authorities to receive support and assistance, whether as a local monument or as another option, from the authors, if they could deal with such a initiative in the future. The motion is deemed eligible. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-22-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I would like to address Congressman Zoltán Demeter of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-57	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Members have just tabled the proposal that we are discussing, which is XLIII of 1999 on cemeteries and funerals. It's about amending the law. As a member of the Judicial Committee and, of course, as a reformed minister, I would also like to say a few words about the right of grace. When examining the application of the human dignity enshrined in the Fundamental Law, it should be stressed that in the case-law of the Constitutional Court, the right to life and human dignity was placed at the forefront of the hierarchy of constitutional fundamental rights. The free development of personality and the general freedom of action are also the foundations of the individual's right to self-determination, the free choice of religion, and the continuation of all these beyond man's life may be the provision of how to bury it, to which the buryers are obliged to comply, in the absence of relatives or of them. The right to human dignity therefore belongs to man in his life. Yet, it cannot be said that death ceases to be dignified. The right of grace prohibits the retroactive denial of the dignity of a dead man. The right of grace does not fall within the scope of the universal right of personality, as the latter is intended to protect living persons. On the other hand, the right of grace is a part of the right to human dignity, a partial survival of the right to human dignity after death. The right of grace includes, in part, a defence claim related to the former existence of human dignity, which applies to the deceased on the basis of belonging to the human sex. The right of grace as the remaining element of the right to human dignity after death ensures the protection of the moral, personal and social judgment of the deceased person during his life. This concept, the priority of the protection of the right of mercy, is also reflected in the bill before us. The bill is therefore XLIII of 1999 on cemeteries and burial. amends the law with a view to allowing the religious customs of the religious community to be taken into account in the implementation of certain rights, obligations and tasks relating to cemeteries and to clarify, by incorporating specific rules, the provisions applicable to those closed cemeteries which have been closed or for which more than 50 years have passed from the last burial. Thus, I see the essence of the amendment of the law in the fact that, if necessary, the government can provide support to the owners of the graveyards, its maintainers, to remedy the situation that endangers the survival of the cemetery and to carry out renovations for the permanent preservation of tombs. On the other hand, the proposal addresses the wider social involvement of public workers in the implementation of supported activities, the identification, protection and preservation of cultural heritage. It is also worth mentioning, and I think it is very important, to organise programmes within the framework of a school community service to ensure that students can contribute to the care of a particular cemetery. The rules laid down by this bill, I believe, create the legal conditions for saving the cemeteries in Hungary, which form part of the European cultural heritage. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, That is why I ask you to discuss the bill that has been tabled and to support it as far as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it important that I comment on this bill in a few thoughts because I often criticize and criticize you for the activities that you are doing in the walls of Parliament and for the draft laws that you are bringing into the walls of this House. [[11.50]] I must say that I feel that I should also speak when I see that a reasonable legislative amendment is being tabled before this House, and it is appropriate to confirm this with some thought. Zoltán Demeter, my fellow Member, spoke in detail, and therefore I will not explain in detail what is being formulated within the framework of the bill, but I would just like to confirm that, even with regard to the question of the installation of cemeteries, the religious community, and the question of the opinion of the religious community, which comes to light, yes, I think it is important. Similarly, the various provisions, which emphasise the importance of the provisions on installations, concern their regulatory options, I think, in terms of flexibility or clarification, they are still important. But perhaps these are not the most important ones, and it is also important to take measures regarding burial sites 50 years ago. But perhaps all of these are overwritten by the fact that in the case of cemeteries closed or closed decades ago, in respect of cemeteries that cannot be cleared due to religious requirements, or by the implementation of measures in the absence of living relatives, and by taking into account the opinions of religious communities, which are essential and of great importance, they all come back in this draft law. I think that if it were to be said in one sentence, then I can do nothing but acknowledge the reasonableness of this law and, as László Kiss said in his keynote speech, we support the application of the rights of grace while respecting religious standards. I said all this because, as I said in my first sentence, I often criticize and criticize you, in my view, rightly, but I also wanted to express it when proposing a legislative amendment to the table, which I think is reasonable and appropriate. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2015-09-22-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-09-22-61	Yeah.
u2015-09-22-62	Yes, he does. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-63	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am only reacting very briefly, actually only to the suggestion of my fellow Member, Mr Sallai, because, as I have removed from the speeches, all parliamentary groups and the government support the proposal, which I thank very much for. On the other hand, my fellow Member Sallai has gone beyond the framework of this proposal and has drawn attention to problems which, by the way, can be found in the focus of the government's work. In connection with the renovation of the Wenckheim family crypt, he mentioned that the grave of many public figures who played an important role in Hungarian history is not in good condition. We have just prepared the database of the graves of all former Hungarian prime ministers from 1848 to 1947, which shows that the graves of some former prime ministers are not in Hungary, but we also know, of course, what state they are in, an ex-Prime Minister who has committed war crimes is lying in an unmarked tomb, we know exactly what looks like, what condition it is and what needs to be renovated. Within two or three years, each grave can be repaired with a relatively modest amount. So we have an accurate picture of the Prime Minister's grave, a renovation plan, a prime minister's grave where only the letters need to be re-golded, some where the environment needs to be fixed, some things need not be touched at all. In parallel, the government also makes a strong contribution to the restoration of the family tombs of significant historical families. Not so long ago, we handed over the building of the Széchenyi Mausoleum of Nagyenk completely renovated. It is a historic building, where, among other things, the tomb of Széchenyi István can be found beside many famous Széchényi. This reconstruction was carried out with significant government support of more than HUF 100 million. We are talking about Hungary's most visited burial place, because many groups of students and pilgrims also go to pay their respects to the largest Hungarian. On 3 October, we will hand over the fully renovated family tomb of the Festetics family, together with Minister Lázár in Keszthely, which we also carried out with the support of the government. Well, we finished fixing the Esterházy family graves in Fertőd not too long ago, and soon we'll be able to fix the way there. Of course, the government also pays due attention to the graves of other Hungarian historical families. I must also point out that we are working on a database that will give a summary of the graves of the most important political leaders of the past 170 years, not as prime ministers, but as ministers and other political leaders in other positions. By the way, about six months ago, I suggested that Baron József Eötvös, the first Hungarian minister of cult, who played a very important role both in the Batthyány government and later, after the settlement, in the Andrássy government, and in the 19th century. One of the greatest literary figures of the century, his tomb must be repaired, because the obelisk that towers over his grave is in pretty bad condition, and the Chapel of Szapáry in his neighbourhood is in danger. So on the pretext of this, in this connection, we will also process the graves of all politicians and statesmen with significant oeuvres, so that we can have a database to determine what needs to be renovated, where the state's responsibility is, what needs to be fixed. I also need to highlight the military grave care program that the Ministry of Defense is running. During the First World War centenary, we are working very hard to bring the Hungarian soldiers' graves beyond our borders to an appropriate state. I believe that this is our duty not only in the case of World War I but also in the case of World War II, but now attention is focused primarily on World War I. In addition to the Carpathian Basin, the Russians to the Italian front could be classified as significant military sites where there are many Hungarian soldiers' graves, and we have to take care of them all. The Institute of War History and Museum and the Ministry of Defence have a very accurate database, and the First World War Centenary Memorial Committee provides sufficient resources to continuously repair the tombs. Of course, in the motherland, we also pay attention to World War I memorial sites in such a way that the Centennial Memorial Committee has provided support and will also provide support for the restoration of the First World War monuments in our settlements, which are linked to the right of grace in such a way that these monuments contain the names of heroic dead who lost their lives away from home, in a foreign country. At the time, legislation imposed the obligation to claim World War I monuments, so almost all of our settlements have World War I monuments. During last year's Holocaust Memorial Year, a number of abandoned cemeteries were fixed in addition to the government's financial support, and we must also pay attention to this. I would also like to say to the Member that things depend not only on support, but also on local authorities in the current legislative environment, that important and valuable graves are preserved with local protection for the future, and that municipalities can also use their own budgets to protect, guard and nurse graves that are important to them and important to all of us. And there is one last point that we must stress that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, is considered to have a responsibility for the preservation of graves and cemeteries, not only of emblematic and important cemeteries such as the Cemetery of Házsongárd in Cluj-Napoca, but also of cemeteries located in former sporadic settlements where Hungarians no longer live, but graves of two, three or four hundred years old prove that these settlements were once Hungarian settlements. [[12.00]] So it is also important for our historical consciousness and identity, in terms of heritage conservation, to organize these cemeteries, through the Bethlen Gábor Fund and through other sources, that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, contributes to these. I have only told the Member that, although this bill is on a narrower issue, it clearly draws attention to the tasks and obligations ahead of us, and the Member has also asked me that. In conclusion, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support, and I trust that all my fellow Members will then vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I'll wait for the Secretary of State to sit in the horseshoe. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. We'll continue the meeting from here. I thank you for your cooperation, and before we get to the amendment of the law on electricity, I thank you once again for your cooperation, and I give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-09-22-65	Welcome. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/6136. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-66	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before Parliament is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. It intends to amend the law. The amendment makes life easier for electricity companies wishing to abandon universal service. It helps these companies to do so in an orderly manner if they decide to terminate their activities for their own business reasons. On the other hand, at the same time, the proposal offers a competitively neutral opportunity for other operators to apply and take over the authorisation granted back at the independent Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Thirdly, the purpose of the motion is to ensure that consumers themselves feel nothing of this, that they are given a high standard of care in all circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, In the event of the adoption of the bill, the regulation is adapted to current and actual market processes, since today the law mainly provides for how a service provider should operate in Hungary. The major lack of legislation is that it does not specify the conditions under which a company can complete its operation in the universal service market, even though if we want to respect the principle of freedom of business and to enforce it, this legislative gap must be filled. It is also necessary to provide for a case which cannot be separated from the natural movement of the market, as a matter of course, when a service provider chooses to complete its activity of its own free will. The government believes that the proposal before you is good for exiting companies, benefits the sector, meets the demands of the regulatory state, but is clearly good for electricity consumers, since it also takes their interests into account. My fellow Members, no one would want companies wishing to abandon universal service to fall in uncontrolled ways overnight without the rights and opportunities of hundreds of thousands of electricity consumers being clarified. The amendment therefore sets out precisely what rules must be followed for withdrawal, how the parties concerned must cooperate in the course of the transfer. The bill regulates the usual procedure and guarantees to a large extent the smoothness of the service and continuity of supply. Ladies and gentlemen, The practice has clearly shown that the expansion of the National Utility Service Provider in itself requires us to deal with the issue of universal service providers wishing to withdraw at systemic level. In the gas supply law, we have very much regulated the issue of return of universal service, and we have done very well to put the problem on the agenda. About a year ago, the State decided to enter the public utility market and compete for customer care, offering high-quality, fair-price services. In just six months, all foreign gas suppliers announced their withdrawal from universal service. By the end of 2015, the Hungarian gas supplies half of the domestic population with natural gas, and in 2016 all about 3.4 million retail customers will be transferred to the public company. Magyar Telekom's tens of thousands of customers have been treated by Főgáz since 1 August without complaint, but the national utility company is also taking over consumers in bulk from other companies. The fact that this process takes place transparently, smoothly and uncomplainingly is largely due to the fact that the transfer process in Get has been properly regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the government is responsible when preparing for similar steps in the field of electricity markets. The State does not necessarily expect that it alone will supply electricity customers to the general public, but there are clear signs of the return of the permit from certain companies. For example, it is already certain that in May this year, the German RWE and the Hungarian Government signed a declaration of intent to take over some of the interests of the ELMÚ-Émász group. We must take action in this situation, ladies and gentlemen, and we must also prepare legislation for a change affecting hundreds of thousands of consumers and the current situation and the situation ahead of us; this is in the public interest. In view of all this, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill before you. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President János Latorcai wishes to speak during today's debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, he shall be allowed to hold the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision only if the Parliament agrees. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President János Latorcai can continue to lead the meeting when negotiating and deciding on the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place, and I will give the floor first of them to Mr Szilárd Németh, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-68	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Déjà vu, as the Secretary of State said, was already before the House at the time of the amendment of the law on the supply of electricity, and this was adopted by a reassuring majority. This is also very important because in a market for services where not only market principles are in place, but also social principles, this universal service, we are trying to address the shortcomings in this area with this law that still characterize this market. As the Secretary of State said, in this market, with the cooperation of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the regulation has so far been about the fact that these companies, which are given the opportunity to apply here, are given the opportunity, under certain conditions, to participate in the universal service, but otherwise the phama has not told us what is going on if they do not want to participate. And let's be honest, the story is that they do not want to be involved in this role, because the reduction in the amount of money that Hungarian citizens have been collecting from the mostly foreign service providers has virtually eliminated. [[12.10]] I would like to remind you that HUF 1062 billion has been taken out of the country after tax, and the benefits of other investments, of course, are not even included in this. So, if you like, this legislation will also determine the sustainability and continuity of the reduction of the costs. On the other hand, we have found that the whole universal service market itself - although it is being applied in 17 out of the 28 states of the European Union or some similar price regulation, where everyone in their own country is protecting consumers primarily, and here in Hungary, in accordance with legislation, even small business operators in this market, are not allowed to make a huge profit in this market - is, of course, being kept under constant pressure and constant attack by the European Union. So this is also a preparation for our task of the First National Public Service Provider for the period of time when retail gas and electricity supply will have to be resolved on the free market. Well, for all this and for all that you have said, Mr Secretary, I would like to draw this bill to the attention of everyone, and I would ask my fellow Members to support you without belonging to a party, since the continuation and sustainability of the reduction in overhead depends on this rule. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notification speaker is MSZP's lead speaker, Mr Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I would be careful with déjà vu, because, in terms of regulation, it is very similar - right there, natural gas supply and the amendment of legislation relating to it, there are many links and similarities between the amendment of the law on electricity - but let us not forget that I have already indicated and I would like to point out now, especially if we are talking about déjà vu, that, so far, the stateization of the energy sector has been so much more than a thousand billion forints of public money. I'm obviously thinking about buying E.ON Trade here, but if you count the purchase of MOL shares, the purchase of natural gas, you have spent a lot of public money in order to bring about what has happened in the natural gas sector. And that is why the statements made here by the Secretary of State about entrepreneurship and free will are so interesting. As I understand it, they have created a regulation and a legal environment on the basis of which there was no other choice for universal service providers in the natural gas sector than to return this service and let the public company take over it. As I have said in my previous speeches, I would like to note that, of course, it is not from the devil that the state is taking a role and appearing in the public utility sector; the way you are using it is to create a legal environment where foreign-owned companies are being excluded from the market, is not such a loss for them because you are paying them to withdraw from this market. As my fellow Member Németh has mentioned, HUF 1062 billion in profits, which these companies have said in your vocabulary about Hungary, and you have added a thousand billion forints to that, so we are already at two thousand billion forints. So you are not as hostile with these multi-company companies as I mentioned, for example, E.ON has put more than 300 billion forints in the German company's pocket. By the way, when Hungarian offshore riders are behind a company, I am thinking of MET Zrt., and there was no problem to carry nearly HUF 150 billion out of Hungary in your effort to reduce the rent. So this double standard is in place; when it comes to your friends, you were allowed to carry the money out of Hungary with a rule of law, a decree; if multi-companies, as you said, carried this money, and even paid for it. But we have heard from the Secretary of State that, at the end of May 2015, a letter of intent was signed with the German RWE, which owns ELMÚ-ÉMÁSZ, although Mr. State Secretary somehow said that it had been taken over. Now, this take-over, we don't know it's gonna be a free take-over, but we think we're gonna pay hard-core forints from the taxpayers' money again. So this takeover will not be such a big failure for RWE either, as you will buy them out of the Hungarian market. Which, I think, is still a problem, that this magnified national public utility provider, at least for now, as your colleague, Mrs László Németh, said, will not be the centre of profit production. Although you said this wasn't supposed to generate profits, or even engulfed that it would become a nonprofit company, and then left off, it wouldn't be a nonprofit, but it wouldn't be the primary goal of making profits while Madam Secretary of State was talking, not about profits, but about brutal losses. This is justified by the fact that the current world market price for oil and the benefits from the reduction in gas prices in Europe and Russia are not passed on to Hungarian consumers, and you are not continuing to reduce energy prices because the losses will be generated by the National Public Service Provider and will have to be financed from something. And let me confirm this statement as Secretary of State, although it is strange why the Prime Minister's Office is submitting this legislation, since, I understand, there is also the Ministry of Energy Policy, the Ministry of National Development, but you know this dog-cat fight better from the inside between the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Prime Minister's Office, in which you are better informed, but regardless of that, you confirm the words of the Secretary of State that you have just announced that the CEO of the South-Transdanubian Regional Waterworks has resigned because the brutal loss that has occurred there is unmanageable. In fact, today's news is that this otherwise state-owned company can no longer pay the trade tax, and the CEO, whose fidesz connection I do not have to describe, was the local Fidesz president of a lowland town, so it was then placed at the head of the regional waterworks; I indicate that Tettye Fort House, a good party soldier, served for some time at the head of the South-Transdanubian Water Plant, did not, however, agree to fire people and to lay down. Let me draw attention to a third problem. This highly praised National Public Service Provider has not submitted a business plan to the Energy Office in connection with the supply of natural gas. Nor do we see that if the same process is complicated - and I would like to refer back to déjà vu again - if this process is complicated in the power supply, then what is the guarantee that the National Public Service Provider will finally put down a business plan. I do not understand how the Hungarian State can afford it and how the Ministry can afford it - although now who will be the owner of this National Public Service Provider, it is mixed here that Development Bank, National Asset Manager, we do not yet know what the final structure will be - but how can the owner allow an economic company to operate in such a way, moreover, State Secretary mentioned the public interest, a public-interest company that does not have a business plan. You have a company, and we know that, and obviously you're asking the manager what business plan you're doing next year, because as the owner, it doesn't matter how far and how deep you have to reach into your pocket. Moreover, it is a public company, a state company and taxpayers' money, or at least the money that should be there for people from the profits that have now come from a reduction in energy prices in the international market. So there is no business plan, we do not see the guarantee that the National Utility Service Provider could deliver higher quality and even cheaper energy to Hungarian consumers. It's a total blur about this. So, in my speech to Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to use the influence of the State Secretary and to make it possible, as the owner, that the National Utility Provider should put down the business plan on the basis of which his management can be seen, both in the gas business and in the electricity business. I think that this is in the same public interest as this legislation. [[12.20]] Due to all these uncertainties, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction cannot support the bill. And once again, I stress that it is inappropriate to talk about free will and entrepreneurship in such an environment, and your nationalisation activity in the energy sector costs a great deal of tens of billions, even hundreds of billions, and that distracts the resources from many, many goals such as raising wages for social workers, raising salaries for public sector workers or health care, where this money would be a much better place for them, and that their friends, the businessmen behind offshore companies, will profit a lot as the winner of your debt reduction war. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-09-22-71	Thank you very much. Our next speaker is the lead speaker of the KDNP, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-72	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed amendment to the Electricity Act, which we have just discussed, should be examined in two respects. One is the potential of electricity suppliers in the current situation of electricity suppliers and the other is the extent to which they serve the interests of consumers, the general public and small businesses. Let's see the first one. In particular, the bill will make life easier for companies wishing to abandon universal service. The proposal provides a new opportunity for actors in the electricity sector by removing the restriction that they are currently obliged to provide universal service. The objective of not forcing any operator to maintain the universal service, as far as possible, as competition increases, was not forced by the government, i.e. to supply retail and small customers, if these companies are not in a position to continue or simply do not want to participate in this service activity. Here, the State undertakes that it has a primary obligation to ensure controlled and transparent conditions, i.e. to fix precisely the rules for exiting the service and to add the rules that must be observed during the transfer-over. The bill describes precisely the terms of the transfer and transfer, since it considers that it is necessary to ensure the highest quality of service in all cases. In the event that there is no other service provider that wants to provide this activity, it can organise the self-organization of the service providers through the procedure of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and ensure that consumers do not in any way remain without electricity supply. The current regulation is particularly topical to the business activities of the National Public Service Provider during the last year, since in just six months all foreign gas suppliers have announced that they will be out of universal service. On the basis of the predictions, similar processes will be expected in the electricity market in the future, which is absolutely necessary to prepare in time, ensuring continuity of service and consumer interests. We are convinced that the government will act responsibly when preparing for similar events in terms of the electricity market. The state does not necessarily expect that the public company alone, the National Public Service Provider, will supply retail electricity consumers, but there are clear signs of the return of the permit from certain companies, as several fellow Members and State Secretarys have already indicated in their speech, as it is certain that in May the German RWE and the Hungarian Government signed a declaration of intent on the acceptance of certain interests of the ELMû and the Emasz Group. For this reason, the proposal seeks to ensure that the interests of people, consumers, are far-reaching and that their security of supply is surrounded by guarantee elements. In the process of transfer transfer, all relevant actors should cooperate with each other on a mandatory basis in order to ensure that the transition remains smooth and smooth. The bill provides very clear information for consumers and also sets out the reporting obligation that the parties are obliged to comply with in the course of the transfer. The proposal settles the relationship between the supplier and the receiving universal service provider and customers in the interest of users, i.e. consumers. In addition, the proposal also addresses the regulation of important technical details of the changeover, such as the determination of the measuring station or the way in which the invoice is issued. The security of supply is also guaranteed by the fact that the universal service provider's authorisation returned can only be obtained by a new service provider, a new operator having the capacity to supply the customers received. In any event, the government would like to avoid consumers being left without electricity when returning the universal service, so the bill also prepares that if the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office does not call for an offer from other market players, the state will resolve this problem in its own regulations and options. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here comes Congressman Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-09-22-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning, the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is of the opinion that the strategic sector, such as the energy or utility service, is in the best place in public hands. This is also the case for consumer safety and security of supply. It was already included in our 2010 programme to take this strategic sector back into state ownership. That is why we have supported all the legislative proposals that have served this purpose on the part of the current government before Parliament. And perhaps I will not reveal a great secret by not making any obstacles to the legislative proposal for the transfer of the authority's authorisation to return or transfer universal service licences. Of course, we have concerns about the First National Public Service Provider, which we have already said and will tell you in many different forms here and in the future, but the basic lineup, that Hungarian consumers should have access to electricity, natural gas, at the right price, with the right security and quality, would have the same interest as the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Unfortunately, this is not always the case at the moment, as a number of consumer protection problems are emerging in relation to services. We can only hope that the National Public Service Provider, the State-owned service provider, will be able to remedy these problems. [[12.30]] One of the objections to the specific bill is more technical, since the electricity law is 168. Paragraph 4 of Section 4 is added to a point (j) where point 91/A is replaced by the following: Paragraph 61 is referred to by the legislator, but Article 91/A. § 3 does not exist in either the law currently in force or the amendment. That is why I would like to ask the representatives of the Government and the rapporteur to look at, in particular, which place of law they intend to refer here and to amend the legislation accordingly. The other is a much more specific consumer protection issue. It is stated that, in the two months preceding the transfer take-over and in the six months following the transfer, the Consumer Protection Authority should not impose fines or impose penalties on the licensee if the licensee does not meet the time limits or there are problems with the quality of the service. It is now clear that a transfer-over period is necessary, but we do not consider it justified to set this for six months or for two months before the transfer-over. The two months are still pretty much fine, but the six months after the transfer take-over seems a little long for us, so that there will be no penalties on the part of the Consumer Protection Authority during such a long period of time. Obviously, such a time limit should be set taking into account the interests of consumers or those who are entitled to the service. So, as a whole, we can say that, thanks to the existing new situation, that universal service providers are leaving the Hungarian market, as we have seen recently, and we will see and deliver universal service to the National Public Service Provider in the near future, it is indeed necessary that an area that has not yet been covered by the electricity law is also regulated by the legislator; that is to say, the conditions under which the permit is to be returned, the administrative procedure governing this, the periods and deadlines which are essentially regulated by the procedural law, the administrative procedural law, or where different regulations are required. It is indeed another question - and the speakers before me have gone a little beyond or over the text-like amendment before us - how the state is able to carry out their tasks as service providers, utility providers, universal service providers, or other tasks relating to public utility and energy supply, whether they can properly supply the population with natural gas or electricity. Here, I would just like to refer to the level of charge of the state-owned gas storage units that have been reclaimed for no small amount of money. The press has seen the light of day on this issue, which says that there is an extremely low level of charge for these gas reservoirs, so about a month before the start of the heating season, that is not very reassuring. So, if we already have these gas reservoirs, it would obviously be advisable to store gas in them to the extent that domestic security of supply is possible in these otherwise extremely uncertain international situations and times. We do not know when the conflict in Ukraine will be renewed, or when the relationship between Russia and Ukraine will become so angry that gas pipelines may again be blocked or the amount of natural gas transferred reduced. Hungary must therefore ensure its supply of natural gas. Once again, I say this as a detour, because it is about amending the electricity law, but it must not be ignored, since the national public utility service provider now performs almost entirely the tasks of universal service providers in terms of both electricity and natural gas, with regard to natural gas. So, in addition to supporting the bill, we draw the government's attention to these errors or shortcomings in the text of the bill, either in the government's programme or in its actions in principle, and we ask that they be taken into account so that Hungarian consumers can continue to have access to electricity and natural gas safely, at the right price and at the right quality. It is only a matter of foam on the cake, or of the near future, that I should also mention the reduction of the rent for a sentence, how much it will be possible to keep in the near future, or how compatible it is with the third energy package of the European Union in terms of regulated prices or electricity. After all, the EU is constantly working to make this regulatory price regulation, called the reduction of prices, impossible for Hungary as well, and, on the basis of the EU legal order, exempt it from the provisions of the Member States. In this case, there is obviously a question of how the government will be able to provide the cheap, low electricity and natural gas prices that they can artificially allow, or at market prices, under competitive conditions, at present, by means of a reduction in the cost of electricity and natural gas. Also, does the printed official price not cause such permanent damage, whether in the state of the utility network, I am talking about non-maintenance, or in any other form, which will affect these services later on? There are therefore many questions about public utility services, about universal service, and I would like to say so much now, and later in the debate, if there is any debate after the main speaker group, and then I will discuss other details. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-75	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Here comes Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The foolish man in the joke, falling down from the top of the tower, on every floor, states: "It's all right, so far so good." This reminds me of the public utility policy of the Orbán Cabinet. We haven't set foot in the ground yet, but the worrying signs are multiplying. In practice, all utility operators have become loss-making due to excessive taxes and contributions, investments have been suspended for years, companies have recently been saving on maintenance and labour costs, and are fleeing to mass reductions and wage cuts. Transdanubian Regional Vízmű Zrt. His representative has recently set up a strike committee in response to the planned downsizing. The first step is that Hungarian National Property Management Ltd., a state company which exercises ownership rights in five regional waterworks. a study on how to eliminate the loss-making of these companies and the substance proposes a 10-percent reduction or wage reduction. Last year's loss of DRV with 26 billion revenues is HUF 2 billion, mainly due to the fact that the Orbán government bled out public utility companies with the fixed utility tax, the supervisory fee and other similar withdrawals, which, under the new rules, are not incorporated into their prices. Brutal losses and negative consequences in the energy sector are similar. From the power supply, private companies forced to lose will soon be in the hands of the entire state. This is also the purpose of the current bill. However, this means that all the losses of an industry that has been made deficit by regulatory means will soon have to be borne by taxpayers, as this is what the current 100 billion-dollar loss compensation financed by the budget means. LMP is not opposed to the inclusion of public utility services in community property, we also believe that forced public utility privatisation was a mistake in the '90s. For us, however, community property does not mean a state mammoth, but a colourful set of state, municipal and cooperative ownership, just as it has been established and worked in Germany or the Scandinavian countries. [[12.40]] The Orbán Cabinet, on the other hand, appears to have passed the horse and wants to be more communist than the Kádár system. Socialism also included regional suppliers of electricity, gas, water and district heating, but the Orbáns want to pool all utilities in one large state company. It's something that maybe hasn't even been experimented in North Korea, and it doesn't work anywhere in the world. Not by accident; such a finding is guaranteed to be unable to adapt flexibly to local needs, is not sensitive to changes in external conditions, it follows not the expectations of consumers, but the expectations of politics, it is not important for environmental and economic sustainability, as the state is able to withstand possible environmental and financial losses. Moreover, similar conglomerates, as this has become apparent in Hungary, for example in the case of MÁV or BKV, are perfectly unfit to provide high-quality services at affordable prices. On the other hand, they generate a continuous loss of ten or a hundred billion per year, and from time to time there is a suspicion that they operate as party payouts. Instead, the LMP would like to see a public utility sector where the control role of local communities is effective, transparency and accountability prevail, and where policy only intervenes indirectly by creating clear, equally binding rational regulation for all market participants. We must also remember one aspect of the bill, which seeks to make it easier for market players in electricity trading to become a universal service provider. While the state is crowding out private market players to make room for the public utility mum, the question is rightfully raised: what new player does the government expect in this regulated market? The answer is the MET group, which the Hungarian newspaper reader may not only know is that the economic interest of people very close to the Prime Minister, but also that he is based in Switzerland, i.e. from an EU point of view offshore, nevertheless receives a series of discounts from the Orbán government that categorize as a joke the fight against offshore which was already fought only in words. It is already difficult to list lex METs with unilateral benefits, the currently at least fifth in line. If we add that Viktor Orbán's mysterious Swiss travels have already been linked to the financial interests of HES by the Swiss press, we already have more than enough reason to be suspicious of the current amendment. The proposal shows a system in which the obligation to supply and the continuous loss to the state, taxpayers, can be seen, while an offshore private company with very good political relations can treat itself to the activities and service areas where profit production can be achieved in the most difficult circumstances. We've seen the same experience in the gas business before, and the government is now trying to do the same in electricity supply, always in favour of MET. Whether it is symbolic or not, while the proposal is being debated, the vice-president of the LMP in the court is forced to defend his case against the offshore business with government discounts, because the company which, as a result of a tailor-made regulation amendment, made 50 billion in one year to sell cheaply imported gas here at market prices, dared to pump taxpayers' money out of the country through the gas pipeline, and thus allegedly violated the so-called reputation of MET, which, even in the foreign press, appeared to be a close-to-government cash pump. According to the LMP, the laws must be equally valid for everyone, and the legislation cannot be aimed at filling the pockets of Viktor Orbán's close friends and obligations with the provision of state benefits, and the losses of the failed public utility policy should be passed on to the taxpayers. Therefore, we do not support the bill in question, and we will continue to fight against the indecent waste of money with the means of law, even if the prosecutor's office rejects our previous allegations does not see any reason to investigate the tricks that harm the Hungarian state. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Bertalan Toth applauds.]]
u2015-09-22-77	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I'll see if anyone wants to live with that. [[Laszlo Varju says no.]] No. There are two-minute speeches coming up. It's not encouraging, it's just a statement. [[No one's reporting.]] No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr Nándor Gúr spoke from the MSZP faction. Here.
u2015-09-22-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the bottom of my story, I might ask you a question. I think, of course, I won't get an answer, but the question is formal, not really content. What I've been looking into is why the National Development Department doesn't represent this law. Why is it the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office who, as an anointed expert on this subject, is the owner of the subject within the walls of Parliament? I don't know. I believe that the Ministry of National Development should have more to do with this issue, even if, of course, the Prime Minister's Office, according to your judgement, has everything to do with and control everything. But maybe it's not the right thing to do. But that's not the point. Content matters are more important than that. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, looked a little out of this bill and referred me back to the gas law. Therefore, I would like to mention three sentences, which I would like to refer back to the Gas Act. Central Data Collection and Processing Ltd. by bringing to life what was done during the negotiation of this bill, with the internal content, with the thought that a new system usage fee will be introduced, virtually a sort of settlement fee will appear. My problem was that it wasn't really known what the scale of this settlement fee, the system charge, was. That this total amount of HUF 1 billion for a given year, in the order of two, three, ten, how many billion forints? But by increasing the supply of natural gas, there can be no question about it. 'Cause if we add one or ten to anything, it's obviously a price increase in unit cost training. The problem is that if this process appears as a result of their work, in addition to all other objectionable things, it is not in the best interests of the people. The same can be assumed and revealed practically now in terms of electricity supply. The National Public Service Provider comes - no question, it is clear today; L. Simon László confirmed it in his presentation, in the leadership of the State Secretary. With regard to the issue of RWE, there is no longer any question, based on the agreement, about what will happen with regard to the universal power supply company and obviously not with regard to the National Public Service Provider. It is also okay for a government to believe that a national utility provider is being set up. I don't think so, because that's your right, that's your chance. I have a problem with that, and I think a lot of people have a problem with not seeing ahead if we don't see guarantees, if we don't see guarantees, if we have to move forward in the midst of uncertainty. There is a problem in my opinion if people and legislators do not see, for example, how, on what basis, a higher standard of service will be brought to life. [[12.50]] If it is in question before us and before many, how the above-mentioned questions can work more effectively than, say, in previous times, and you cannot find any basis for this, either through the draft law or on the basis of background reinforcements, obviously at the end of the day, the above-mentioned questions will lead to how and how the service fee will be reduced, how prices will be more favourable, whether this process will contribute to making people profit in this respect. You can talk about cuts in fees, but I can give you a number of examples and anyone else, factually supporting them when they put fixed service fees in the system in 2011, and then they put lollipops in people's mouths in 12 and 13 - so moderate reductions - and faced those who wanted to face it that, say, in 2014, the rate of service charges in question exceeded the level of service charges in 2011, while the country has been burning in a fever for years. So what I would like to say is that I am not interested in this story at the level of words, but in the level of concrete implementation, in that it can be felt after 3-5-8 years, and it should be clear that there really are real cuts in wages as a result of all the measures that a government decides on the basis of its own creed. And there's one more thing that's a little bit of a fantasy about that. This is, in fact, the creation of new paying places - quoted in quotes - paying places within which you, based on your current thinking, have now drawn 4 HUF, or HUF 4 million payment ceilings for these providers; you know, in the banking sector, you have HUF 5 million, here HUF 4 million, and on other sectoral platforms you have drawn top ceilings of HUF 3 million. So, once again, they're bringing more paying places to life for their friends. While the wages of people working within the framework of service providers do not show this type of wage increase, they do not draw such a trend, such as that of your patrons, your buddies, many others. In my opinion, this is an unacceptable torso, especially when, at the time, remember the use of words of an unspeakable magnitude of .2 million forints, I think they should face themselves and be able to remember these times when they call such new paying places to life. But once again, I would like to stress that the essence of this story for me is, in fact, where the guarantees are, the guarantees for bringing the lower prices to life, the reduction of service fees and the safe service, so that we do not go through the loss of the quality of the service, where appropriate, to provide an acceptable service placed in quotes in Hungary. So I am blessed with these doubts when I read this draft law, and I would like to draw the attention of the preparatory parties to it that it might be worth making changes in time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-22-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Secretary of State stands up and says yes. Secretary L. Simon has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond to a few things, because there was too much debate, as I have noticed, that after the keynote speeches, there was only one speech. Still, I'd like to respond to a few little things. Member Bertalan Tóth raised objections to the fact that we will spend a lot of taxpayers' money on buying out utilities. The congressman is not here, but I must say that the strategic error was when the utility companies were sold. And, by the way, I would also like to draw your attention to the payment numbers of the management of the public utility and the foreign-owned utility service providers, and then you will experience quite interesting differences, and you will immediately find out where all the money that has been made in this area has gone. Of course, it is also good to study the accounts of recent years, decades of electricity, gas and other accounts, and to look at the addresses at which they have loaded quite significant items on consumers. So I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, that the vast majority of Hungarian society agrees that it should once again be owned by Hungarian public utility companies and not by foreign companies, owned by foreign companies, the main owners of which are other states. So the state can be a good farmer there, but the socialists don't think so. And when my fellow Member Tóth talks about the fact that the public utility is not primarily responsible for making profits, I think there is nothing wrong with that. The political objective that we have set here in this House and beyond, which the government has made clear to everyone, is that the competitiveness of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian businesses, the competitiveness of businesses, and the daily livelihood of citizens should not be compromised by the high-priced public utility charges and the items to be paid in European comparison, this policy objective should be helped, served by all means, and if this entails the loss of profits of the public utility provider, it should be accompanied by it. My fellow Members, Mr Tóth and Mr Gur, as though my fellow socialists were not listening to each other, raised the very important question of why the Prime Minister's Office was, and why not, the NFM. This is a question that has already been put before you, since this is not the first time you have had the Prime Minister's Office present with such a proposal. Several people in the debate also referred to measures relating to gas supply, as well as several proposals and professional materials concerning the reduction of overhead costs. I can tell my fellow Members that on 22 January 2015 a government decision was issued on the measures necessary to organise the national utility service system, in which the government clearly appointed the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office to carry out this task. It is well known that Mrs Némethé State Secretary has been dealing with this issue for a long time, and she is a State Secretary, a state leader with a professional and political history, who has been at the head of the Ministry of National Development for the most part of the previous term. So I do not understand why it both professionally and politically and administratively upsets my fellow socialists. A few things about my fellow Member Kepli's speech. First of all, thank you for your concern about the legal error. Indeed, the Member is right, and we will obviously remedy this in the future procedure, so we will correct this legal problem, which my fellow Member has referred to. Obviously, we will also be able to shape the bill during the debate before the Legislative Committee, if necessary, with amendments from individual representatives and amendments from the Commission. This particular suggestion by the Member has indeed only pointed to a technical problem and is not relevant, but it must, of course, be corrected and corrected. What you have said, Mr President, about security of supply, I think it is a very important thing. It is in the interests of all of us - let's say I said this not in connection with electricity, but with gas, because the Member also covered the problems of gas supply - so it is in our interest to ensure safe supply. At the same time, I would like to point out, not pushing myself, that this is essentially the task of the Ministry of National Development in the sector. But there's no problem with that. The Ministry of National Development is doing his job. I can tell you from the experience of recent years that there will be no problem with the secure gas supply of Hungarian citizens. [[13.00]] And indeed, we must not be vulnerable to those tense political situations, such as the neighbouring Ukraine. I can say the same in the field of electricity, honourable Member. We had a lot of debate in Parliament about the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I represented the government then and said in the debate that we need predictable, safe, permanently low-priced Hungarian electricity, which is why the government and the coalition behind the government consider it important to develop the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. After all, our goal is to maintain the results of the reduction of the costs. You raised the problem of a low price versus a free market, as I understand it, the Member. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to ensure that the entire Hungarian utility service is preferably in the interests of the Hungarian community. We're gonna get back what was ours. This is partly a matter of national sovereignty, and partly a question of secure care, and partly a question of keeping the profits to be made in this area in national circle. We believe that if we can manage the whole supply itself through the National Public Service Provider, this is a guarantee that we can regulate prices. By the way, I note that the European Union itself has no problem with the official price. I consider Mrs Schmuck's speech - she has also fled, and she has done well to flee - to be quite serious, personal and harsh. He hardly spoke of the proposal, but rather made a violent political attack on the person of both the government and the Prime Minister, which was very personal, which I must strongly reject. He brought the MET into this, and I didn't quite understand how MET was connected, although it was involved by the socialists, right, Bertalan Tóth, our fellow Member. I didn't quite understand how MET got here when we're talking about electricity supply. I don't quite understand how the Prime Minister's Swiss travels come here. I think that this was unworthy of the Congresswoman and the entire Parliament. Moreover, it is unfounded, there is no justification for all the accusations made here by the Member. So definitely, I'm gonna have to decline again. The Member raised the fact that investments in public utility services are being cut off, and the quality of service is constantly falling. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why we need a national public utility provider. This is why we need everything we have done in this area in the last year, and what will be the result of the adoption of this bill, because let's face it, Hungarian utility assets have been privatised here and there have not been any improvements in a number of areas. From the profits that were exported from the country, many things could have been put back into the Hungarian utility system, while the Hungarian taxpayers paid the line charges and all kinds of other charges in professional terms. I am not saying that there are no utility service providers who have made improvements and significant improvements, because I could also give many examples of this myself. Basically, the congresswoman made the accusation that no investments were made, but if investments were not made and certain utility operators were able to obtain extra profit because they had not turned back enough of their revenues to develop the utility network, I have to say that this actually supports our truth and the legitimacy of our actions, and they are not a sufficient basis or point of reference for the unwarranted accusations of the congresswoman. Finally, I can tell my fellow Member, Mr Gur, that it was long again and it was very complex again, and I found it very difficult to follow the Member, but I wrote a sentence to learn from it. If I wrote it right, the congressman said we put lollipops in people's mouths. I mean, you said yes, they did do lollipops, but I just said "we" in plural first person, as far as we're concerned. Congressman, the plural used a third person, so they put lollipops in people's mouths. What you're trying to say is that the whole reduction in the rent is actually a scam. I can tell you, honourable Member, that since 2010, some HUF 855 billion has been saved gross for households who consume 3.2 million gas, and for households who consume 3.8 million electricity since 2012, they have saved around HUF 230 billion gross, and the savings of district heating customers have been around HUF 44 billion gross since 2012. I'm not going to continue with the numbers. I think they speak for themselves. [[Nándor Gúr: Look at the analyses! We should've analyzed who's involved.]] These numbers, I think, speak for themselves. [[Nándor Gúr: You must have fallen.]] Honourable Congressman, It would be nice to face the facts and reality. You said that you said slowly that we should understand, too, that there will be no gas price increase; and we reduced the rent, and that this money remained with Hungarian consumers. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] I've listened to you too, Congressman. [[Nándor Gúr: Just helping! I'm just helping!]] I tried very hard to listen, and I was silent, I was silent, I even took notes to understand everything he said. I'm asking you to listen to me with honor and respect. I know it's hard for you. So all these figures speak for themselves, and believe that consumers are aware that otherwise, all the money they save in this way will remain in their wallets, and, by the way, Hungarian public finances will also benefit in such a way that these savings can partly result in the purchase of sovereign debt and, in part, in an increase in consumption. So, ladies and gentlemen, in summing up the debate, I think that the proper opposition behaviour that my fellow Member Kepli has represented here is constructively pointing out some of the problems and, indeed, supporting the Government's efforts to give as much room as possible for manoeuvre in the area of public utility services as possible in the spirit of our national sovereignty and self-determination. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-81	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. a general debate on the draft law amending the law until its closure. The submission is available at T/6129 on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, * Respect the past in the present and hold it for the future! "Michael Vörösmarty once wrote. The protection of archival material which serves as the primary source of knowledge of the historical past and is essential for the continuous performance of public tasks and the enforcement of civil rights, which is part of the nation's cultural heritage, the enhancement and use of the Hungarian national cultural treasure is a state task and a priority government interest. This government commitment was founded and served by the consolidation of the archival system in 2012, as a result of which the county archives were integrated into the organization of the Hungarian National Archives, operating as its territorial units, creating a new, uniform system of archives at national level, the Hungarian National Archives. This has resulted in a uniform, transparent and accountable system of professional performance and enforcement of professional requirements. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] LXVI of 1995 on authentic instruments, public archives and the protection of private archives. Law 19. §2 of the Act provides for the possibility for permanent documents produced by central government administrations to be placed in a public register of professional archives in connection with the national archival institution system. As a result, the Military Archives, the Archives of Environment and Water, and the Archives of Earth and Remote Sensitivity, as well as the Historical Archives of the State Security Services known to all citizens, have a decade-long history. The present amendment of the Archives Act is intended to enrich this specialized archives, which determines the filing and archives of the documents generated during the process of compensation of public policy importance, with the need to establish a public archives. I would remind this House that the compensation process has not yet been fully completed, the keeping and handling of the files in the archives and archives of the compensation cases remains a public administration task. This task is planned by the government to be entrusted to the Veritas Institute of History. [[13.10]] However, the purpose of the amendment of the Archives Act is twofold: on the one hand, Veritas should have at the same time the powers of the archives and the archives established by law in respect of the compensation documents and, on the other hand, the scope of the Ministerial Decree setting out the procedures and technical requirements for the receipt of documents stored in electronic form should apply only to public archives. For the first part: Veritas 152/2014 on the tasks and powers of the members of the government. Government Decree No. 4 On the basis of paragraph 16 of Section 16 of the Act, the management of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office as a member of the Government responsible for coordinating governmental and social relations, as well as the 1/2014 on the organisational and operational regulations of the Prime Minister's Office. Under instructions from MvM, he is under the professional supervision and direction of the Deputy State Secretary for Priority Social Affairs. According to the institutional statute, Veritas carries out credible, undisturbed, multi-disciplinary research, analytical, educational and community memory, analytical, research support and digitalization tasks of the political and social events of the past one and a half centuries, meeting the expectations of today's age, in order to promote the emergence of a realistic national historical consciousness. The tasks performed by Veritas are closely linked to the 1991 XXV on partial compensation for damages caused by the Office for Compensation and the National Compensation and Compensation Office as of 1990 and by further successors over the years in order to settle the property situation, which was unfairly caused by the State to its citizens. the processing of documents handled in cases falling within the scope of law and in cases relating to compensation for material disadvantages caused by measures unduly restricting the personal freedom of Parliament as defined by Parliament. The file of the compensation cases is currently kept by the Justice Department. 1/2015 on the rules of organisation and operation of the Judicial Office According to IM instructions, he shall carry out the tasks related to the handling of the files of the Office for Remedies and Compensation of the Department of Public Administration and Justice, of the Office for Public Administration and Justice, and of the Office for Administrative and Judicial Compensation. The Archives Act 12. According to Article 4 of the Act, the permanent file of compensation cases should have been handed over to the competent public register by the end of the 15th year following the calendar year in which it was created, but this task has not been fulfilled so far. This is due to the fact that a significant proportion of these documents in connection with the compensation procedure have not yet been closed, as claims for damages, complaints and other requests to be made to the Department of Compensation of the Judicial Office have been received to date, which could not be made without the availability of the compensation file. Government intention to make the compensation file - in accordance with the Archives Act 1. In the light of the interests of the administration and archives and the principle of publicity of data of general interest, it shall become a well-managed and well-established source material. In view of the invaluable scientific value of the material collected over more than twenty years in compensation cases, the compensation process has not yet been completed, the maintenance of the file remains a state administrative task, the acceptance of the file by the archives can only be carried out after the disposal of the document in accordance with the legal requirements and the determination of the documents of lasting value. Veritas shall ensure the continued and smooth access of the compensation file to the Justice Office in order to ensure the smooth and continuous handling of the compensation authority's cases, carry out the records and archives related to the handling of the file, and shall ensure the search in the file in accordance with the laws in force. The performance of tasks related to the handling of compensation documents within the competence of Veritas makes it possible to research, review and prepare the archives. In order to ensure that permanent compensation documents are kept in the archives, it is important that Veritas has at the same time the powers of legal archives and professional archives in respect of the compensation documents. To this end, the Government adopted Decision No 373/2013 establishing the Institute for History of Veritas. amends the decree of the Government and takes a decision on the measures necessary for the performance of the professional archives of the Veritas History Institute, which shall enter into force at the same time as this amendment of the Archives Act enters into force. Speaking of the second part of the bill: the Archives Act 35/A. The amendment and clarification of the delegation provision in paragraph 5 of Section 5 provides the basis for a ministerial decree on the procedure and technical requirements for the receipt of documents in electronic form. The Archives Act 35/A. The text of the delegated provisions of paragraph 5 extends the scope of the Ministerial Decree determining the procedure and technical requirements for the receipt of documents stored in electronic form to all registered archives, including church archives, which act as a public private archives, which violates religious autonomy, and compliance with high technical requirements unduly places a burden on church archives or their maintainers. According to the bill, the regulatory scope of the ministerial decree to be issued is Article 3 of the Archives Act. § It covers public archives within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill, their possible intention to improve it, and to thank you for your amendments. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide again on a matter of sitting. Vice-President István Hiller has indicated his wish to speak during today's debate. As is clearly known to you, in accordance with the regulations of the House, the Vice-President shall, in the event of his speech, be allowed to hold the meeting at a further stage of the debate or in the course of his decision, only if the Parliament agrees. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller can continue to lead the meeting in the negotiation and decision of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has accepted my motion. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In their first round, the keynote speakers will be held. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Robert Balázs Simon. I'll give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the law before us, consisting of only a few paragraphs, seems almost technical, complements a series of professional archives in the law on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives, and defines the competence of the Veritas History Institute in the archival work. In fact, it is much more than that. Putting a certain range of documents into archives opens the way for scientific processing, specialization of archives, unique image improvement, the professionality of the processing of documents facilitates the researchability of the archival materials generated, the evaluation and social awareness of the data. The significance of this can be truly felt when we read about the fact that after centuries some archival or library materials have come up with letters, notes, contracts, partitions, and many other things that put personal or historical events, actors, creators into new light, bring spiritual values to the surface, and that our research can be re-evaluated. This also shows that archives often compete with the passing of time. Some of them have to bring in historical disadvantages in the full and proper processing of the archival material, and some of them compete with the present, which spills the documents of the time that will be past tomorrow. [[13.20]] XX-XXI The century has multiplied the amount of documents that can be created over a unit of time, so their selection, sorting, processing, and research can be done at the same time represents a new challenge and the need to apply modern technology. It is also important to preserve, process, present our past, to expand the scope and responsibilities of institutions, because still today many of the values that are being scrapped by institutions or individuals without professional competence and due respect are lost. For this reason, any measure that expands the possibilities for this is institutionalised and is welcome in terms of social self-knowledge and self-esteem. In the present case, the Veritas History Institute will have the task of managing the lasting values of the documents relating to the Office of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. Compensation was a historic turning point in our recent past. He tried, to the extent possible, to scar the deep wound that socialism caused by the violent transformation of ownership. The period of compensation brought up many painful, but also important memories and events about how it took place, and written documents were also produced, which account for both professional and public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment also states that private archives are not included in the scope of the Ministerial Decree defining the procedure and technical requirements for the receipt of documents stored in electronic form. On the one hand, the correction is logical, since private archives are not public institutions, but, at the same time, private archives may have values that are important and in the public interest in terms of cultural history, and therefore, depending on the financial possibilities, it may also be appropriate to facilitate the gradual approach of the procedures and technical requirements for the receipt of documents to public institutions in private institutions. The Fidesz fraction fully supports the amendment of the law, and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has indicated that the group's position will be presented by two of its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-09-22-86	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We see two parts of this amendment, a professional mistake and a political will. Thus, by sharing what we have to say, I would first like to deal with the professional issue and professional error, which, although not by this amendment, but by the previous amendment, has already been committed, but since the law is being amended, there is a way and opportunity to eliminate this. Apparently, it's a name, a personal name, but it's a lot more than that, a substance misrepresentation that I ask the majority of the government to think about, because it's here for another reason, to amend the law in order to eliminate this error. I stress that I do not wish to put forward a political argument, but I am trying to explain the reason on the basis of international literature and international examples. The Hungarian National Archives was established in 1874 by a government decision. Many dozen governments followed each other in exchange in Hungarian history, but at the same time no one challenged the name of the Hungarian National Archives. Obviously not, because it is an appropriate professional name, it happens to be in the archives of a country that collects documents that are of primary importance to its own history, history, and which are necessary and suitable for national storage, archiving, and of which there is one in the vast majority of cases, which is why it is called the State Archives. This is not a Hungarian peculiarity. If we take an example from next door, neighbouring Austria calls its own state archives Austrian State Archives, Österreichisches Staatsarchiv. But if you're not so friendly with the Austrians right now, you should go to the Mediterranean and see Italy. In Italy, the archives are called archivio di stato, in Hungarian: State Archives. If you enter the famous Tuscan archives in Florence, the Viale della Gioventù Italiana1. In the building of house No.1, you will see it written out as Archivio di Stato di Firenze. If you go to the library 400 metres from there, you'll see that it says Archivio Nationale di Firenze The National Széchényi Library is a national library, as the Austrian library is Österreichische Nationalbibliothek. For a state can obtain books on its own history, on its own interest, at all, works belonging to or assuming its own collection circle, because it is true that in modern times a book appears in one copy in the rarest case, so that if a work is published about Hungary in Uruguay, Singapore or Australia, then it is the task of the national library to obtain it, and it is very right, because it is in national jurisdiction, and then it is not a work published within the borders of the country, which is related to our nation, our country's history, but any other part or research, it is right to obtain it from Oakland or even from Australia, Melbourne, therefore a national library. But let us admit that the individual copies which are the documents relating to the history of the nation, but let us say that the Paris Archives, which is the property of the French State, of which there is one, and which concerns Hungary, cannot be obtained by the Hungarian State, by any means, by any means, as there is one, the French will not give it to us, either the Americans or the Portuguese. Therefore, the profession calls the institution which is entrusted with the central archival of the State. So let's not think that all the professional generations before you, from the Pauler Gyulas to the middle of the 1870s, have been completely stupid, and then, with your government, but especially with this archival law being amended, the stupidity and incompetence of every previous generation is now being corrected. In the world, or at least in the civilised part of Europe, this is not a political issue, but a professional one. The central library, which is the collective circle of the nation as a whole, is called a national library, and the archives which are the central institution of the archival of the country are called the national archives. The idea and the name that you are currently calling the National Archives of Hungary, named since 1874 for reasons that are not technically visible, may be a political intention, but I suggest that we do not make a political debate of this right now, but that is a professional mistake. Now, I'm gonna need you to change this law, and I'm gonna need you to think about it. I do not believe that the Austrians love their own country and their own nation less than we Hungarians love our own country, our own nation - it can be said even about Italians, Portugueses, and not to mention - the legislator has made a professional mistake here. Now, in the legislative amendment, as the legislators of 1874 correctly defined it and then no one hurt it, they have the opportunity to correct it. I ask you to consider my proposal and correct this professional error in the amendment of the law a few years ago. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening. [[13.30]]
u2015-09-22-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The position of the MSZP Group will be continued by Mr László Kiss. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In fact, this proposal is about making this research centre Veritas, this research institute Veritas, available to you on a budget line, a new task. There are also a number of other research institutions, which also have a library, and if I wanted to be cynical, I would be happy to see 50-55 of these proposals coming before us, which also entrusts these institutions with such an archival task. It's obviously not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen because it's gonna happen again that an institution needs to serve the money it's getting for some activity, and then we're gonna write something fake, and then we're gonna see what happens. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is all the more incomprehensible to present what is ahead of us, because Veritas signed a cooperation agreement with the Hungarian National Archives last year, 2014 that is precisely about coordinating the research activity in the Hungarian archives with its own activities. Now I think that this kind of activity is properly provided in the institution, and we have this proposal before us. By reading the law, it can be said that the scope of competence of the professional archives is quite precisely defined by the law, and we can see that this is a matter of specific tasks. For example, in the case of the Military Historical Archives, it is the Minister of Defence and the Honvéd General Staff, as well as the military organizations under their direct supervision or direction, and the Military National Security Service, to which the Gathering Circle is directed. Obviously, for a special document, they're creating a special organizational system, I think it's the right thing to do. Then, in the case of the Archives of Land and Remote Sensitivity, it is the data of the real estate authorities under the supervision of the Minister for Geography and Cartography and of the body responsible for implementing the Cadastral programme. Here, too, you can see that it is a special documentation of a special range of activities, I must say, quite rightly, because this, of course, requires skills and special skills. I would not describe the collection circle of the Archives of the Environment and Waters, as it is also a special field of activity, but the definition of the competence of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, with which you draw a parallel in the presentation, and it is worth noting that this particular highlight is necessary here because it is justified not only from a professional point of view but also from a social point of view. Well, you want to put the Veritas in this line, which, however, does not fit into this, because neither your activities nor this collection circle itself justify this kind of treatment. But speaking of Veritas, it is worth noting that Veritas currently has three, let's just say, three major research directions and related departments. One - they are organized on a historical basis - deals with dualism, the other researches the Horthy era, and the third investigates events after 1945. It is interesting, however, that the author defines an archival collection circle that cannot be drawn to these three. So if we pass this law, then there will be an archival task of this institute, which, by the way, does not cover anything in general from its own three researches. This is certainly interesting, because we can naively think that if there is an archive and there is a historical research institute, if we give the research institute an archival task, then this archival task is also suitable for supporting the research task. So, let's say, at least I think it could be a demand. Now, we can see that this is not the case, in this case it is not appropriate. In fact, we do not understand why this proposal is in front of us and why it had to be brought in like this. All the more reason we don't understand, because the government's legislative program doesn't include what's here, but obviously you have the right to bring anything in, the right of your heart to bring in materials that you didn't think you'd be here before us a few months ago. However, we would like to ask that, if you already believe that this institution is necessary, if you think that this archival task is essential for the operation of this research institute, at least bring in a bill that combines an archival task with this institution that is equivalent to each other. That's not what this is about right now. I do not think that there should be a link between these two activities in this research facility, but if that is what you think, it would be good to bring in a law that can implement it. It's not like that, so the Socialist Party doesn't support it. Thank you for listening.
u2015-09-22-89	Thank you very much. We will continue with the list of speakers. The lead speaker for the KDNP, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to anticipate that this bill, an amendment proposal for the Christian Democratic People's Party, should be clearly supported and supported. One of the leading speakers of the MSZP says that the proposal is incomprehensible, and if we are looking for a task for Veritas at all costs, we will resolve this differently. Well, it's the other way around. I listened carefully to Mr. Secretary of State's ministerial exposé, and it was quite clear that it was the other way around. It was necessary to provide for the placement of the compensation document, and not for any reason Veritas had to provide a lifeline here. In addition, the Christian Democratic People's Party takes the lead speaker of Fidesz's thoughts to himself. I do not want to repeat everything that Congressman Simon Robert has said here, but I could do it. Rather, allow me to take a little look back into the past, just because it might be a question for many of us, why we have to deal with such a few exciting issues in such historical times as we are living now. Indeed, we can face the fact that once again I can refer to the lead speaker of Fidesz, that it is a very important and important task for the present and the future, and no matter how stormy our days are, it is always our duty to provide for the future. The history of Hungarian archives dates back to the Middle Ages. CHAPTER III King Béla first ordered in 1181 that the writing be displayed in the royal court in the course of administration, and in essence this writing and the keeping of documents are the archives, the beginning of the archives. Then appeared the royal archives, the chapel and the city archives, and then the 18th century. The county archives were organized in the first century and so on. I have long written down the history of the archives, but as time progresses, I think that this may not be possible, since they are both public and if not well-known, but are known by many. I would rather jump a huge leap in time and say a few words about the fact that, of course, this was not the most urgent task when the system was changed, and so, in the early nineties, there was no cardinal change in the archives' otherwise tangled system; but that the preservation of the file was not properly regulated, nothing shows it better than that since 1990 there has been a total of 66 - I repeat: 66 - legislation deals with the situation of archives. [[13.40]] Therefore, the current amendment to the 1995 Archives Act, as amended in 2012, is certainly justified, even because, as we have all heard again, and we all know, the most exciting story of the early 1990s, which employs everyone and is very little known to young people today, is the story of compensation, which, as we have heard, has not yet been fully completed, but at that time has caused huge storms and emotions, and has so far had an impact on public thinking and groups and people who have been more closely affected by compensation. The huge amount of compensation documents justifies keeping this in one place, being treated professionally and being treated in such a way that it is accessible to research, scientific life, now and in the future. Therefore, not to mention a very exciting series of archives, I repeat that the Christian Democratic People's Party considers this amendment important and supports it in all respects. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-91	Thank you very much. Here comes the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us could also be said at first that it does not seem significant, a brief proposal, contains some minor amendments here and there. At first glance, of course. But we need to dig a little deeper to understand the real meaning of this, and that is what I want to highlight. Unfortunately, I have to criticize the processes that have been going on since 90, and put this proposal in the historical continuity, because we can look at what the governments of the last 25 years have done in the direction of unfortunately looking at history only in its process or in its maximum structures, but the names of the true responsible ones should not be made public. What am I thinking? When we are talking about the Veritas History Institute - and this is included in this presentation - we can see that, as I have said, as part of a process, the Fidesz-KDNP administration would like to raise the professional rank of this institute, I would like to classify it as a state archives, and, as has been said, I would like to entrust it with the acceptance of the Office for Compensation. Of course, you can say how good it is that these documents will be kept, but I would add that this has been the case so far, so these materials have not yet been distributed. Just because the Justice Department had control of these things doesn't mean they weren't in the right place. But what we can see is that the real background of the proposal is additional tasks, which is likely to lead to additional revenues, and we also need to look at the people in this institution who will be dispossessed over these additional revenues. And the question may arise whether they will be given more tasks or more revenue in the future so that they may be able to accommodate people, expand their numbers and see what is known about this institute in broad terms. I wouldn't go into it in detail, but it has to be said that this institute, the chairman of the advisory board of the Veritas Institute, is former Prime Minister Péter Boross, otherwise he is not a historian, but a lawyer, and the Deputy Director-General of Science is not a historian, but an economist, and he is József Antall's former chief of staff. But in the same way, the secretary of the board isn't a historian, which is weird. We would think at such an institution, especially if you were talking about exploring the history of history, you could also find historians, especially in the advisory councils, especially in the management; well, unfortunately, that is not the case. So your secretary isn't a historian either. And in the same way, we'd rather find economists, lawyers than historians among the members of the advisory board. Of course, there are many explanations for this, that lawyers and economists know everything, and I don't think so, Mr. Secretary, although you are also a lawyer... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You?]] I am, too, so obviously I know the mentality of lawyers, and often the poor mentality of lawyers. But, Mr Secretary of State, I will say one more serious thing, because I have asked about the operation of the Veritas Institute, and I have asked more well-versed people and researchers on this subject than I have asked what it is they are asking for our support for, and I have been informed that a member of the Advisory Board is also a person who has come up to the conclusion that he is a III/II, so he has been working for counterintelligence. I will tell Mr Secretary of State that I do not want to go into the people, but I would be very happy to share these specific information with you. In these cases, however, we have failed to express their specific guilt because you, the governments of the last 25 years, have put in place legislation that, even if there is one or two cartons or a piece of evidence missing, there is no way, although based on the remaining material, there is no doubt that someone, say, worked for III/II, III/III, could not be said to be an agent. I wouldn't agree to that now, there were a number of lawsuits where it was clear in court that someone had worked for them, but according to the law, there had to be all kinds of cardboard, and if one of them was missing, it couldn't be said about that person. Again, this is a lack of legislation. But I would go further, Mr Secretary of State: we also know - and I will also be able to mention this to you - that the Institute also involves persons who are also suspected of being III/III or more than suspected. So these things are pretty serious. If we are to explore history and explore communist history, then let us not be involved by people who may be involved in this. This is a minimum criterion that I think could be expected in all the rule of law, and otherwise, in the neighbouring countries, they could do so with the Lustration Laws and everything else. Unfortunately, Hungary has been left out of this circle. And then I have to bring in the activities of the Orbán government, the first Orbán government, because we see that, despite the anti-communist voices, nothing has happened in 25 years, so that we can get to know those people and the processes - but most of all the people - who have operated the repressive system in communism, operated the dictatorship, observed their relatives, observed their friends. Moreover, it is not only that these people left unpunished, that they could live their daily lives unpunished - of course, in many cases they could not necessarily have been condemned, by means of criminal law - but it is that, after 90, they were able to convert their power to the economic sphere and to the political sphere, that is the limit of insolence, and that is not what the Hungarian people wanted in the area of the regime change in 90. When their votes were cast for the first freely elected Parliament, they did not desire people to sit in Parliament, even later on, who were network persons, to operate the dictatorship. What happened to the Orbán government that was founded after 2010 - and here I will again address the Veritas Institute as part of the structure or processes - is that you have planned that an organization, the National Remembrance Committee, will be set up to deal with this. They didn't do that at first, but then we spoke enough times at the National Assembly, so this committee was finally formed. Of course, Secretary of State Rétvári is convinced, I think, that this is not due to this, and you would have created it, Commissioner, even if Jobbik had not been present in Parliament with significant force after 2010. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] Okay, you can argue with that, obviously one of us says that, the other of us says that. However, it has to be seen that when the National Remembrance Committee was not established in May 2012 and it was very difficult to stand up in 2013, they have already said that you want to deal with structures, not to name people, while, when we ask questions about when agent files, magnetic tapes are being published, they always refer to the fact that the National Remembrance Committee has already been formed and is doing serious work in this area. We see that so far we have seen no result of serious work. [[13.50]] We must also say this, and the researchers say so, not only we, but how can we say that learning about structures and learning about history is the most important thing, but you can also remember that BM III. The head of the group did not send structures to observe people, the dictatorship was not operated by structures, but by people, nor did the structures send their network members into the first freely elected Parliament, either as Members of Parliament or later as state leaders. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the Antall and Boross governments have not started this exploration, not only have they swept it under the carpet with its actors, and unfortunately, the Orbán governments will be a historical question of why, but also - they continued to do so. It can be said - this is the official unofficial saying - that this will be resolved by time when everyone who might have been involved is dead. We don't want that time to solve it. By the way, one of the first steps of the post-2010 Orbán government was to bring the magnetic tapes down to the basement of the Constitutional Protection Office. Why weren't these data or magnetic tapes released to the public? Then we could hear arguments that these are virtually non-processing data, no playback device. If that's the only problem, then we can help you with a few more attic tools that can be used to play them. But it is not just as I said, that these people were protected by the governments at all times, but they were also placed in greasy jobs, well-paying jobs, often in jobs where they could decide on the processing of communism, dictatorship, and they became scientists. Now I would like to bring up four institutions where Fidesz would like to prove that they are doing something. The first thing we talked about was the Veritas History Research Institute, but I could say the History of System Change Research Institute and Archive, the National Memorial Committee or even the Institute of Culture, Hamvas Béla. We don't get any real answers, just some pretty big slogans, unfortunately. It may also arise that, when we talk about where these materials could be researched, where these resources should be grouped, the Historical Archives of the State Security Services is usually somehow left out of the spread. There he works for about a hundred people - or even less. Most of the documents can be found here, so it would be best - and since these documents cannot be carried out, they can be researched there - if we were to capitalize on this organization, this archives, or if we were to group researchers here instead. But this isn't what's happening, but they're spending money on fake measures, and, unfortunately, based on the past period, I have to say that this is more than just a professional mistake. Here at the end, it is necessary to say that if the archives have already come up - and probably will be an increase in the number of employees at Veritas - that the National Remembrance Committee, although we have not seen the results very well, has a head of state secretary's office, a salary of state secretary, four alternates who are also entitled to deputy State Secretary's income, 15 full-time researchers with 50 assignments, and they are trying to do some kind of facade activity, as I said, in a very nice structure, and unfortunately, the Veritas Institute fits into this structure. Society, on the other hand, wants answers to questions, Mr. Secretary of State, who the agents were, how this system worked, whether at the time they examined whether those laws were good and where other laws could be changed, such as the law of screening after 90, or those which determined who could be appointed as an agent. Most of the remaining documents should have been made public. I must also say, and this is also a very serious question to consider, so to say, a Jobbik government would consider as one of its first steps what about the 25-30 percent of the file that is in the secret services today. What's in those files? One third of the documents were simply taken over by the secret services, they cannot be searched, even in such a limited way as other historical documents. As long as these state security documents can rest safely in secret service custody, unfortunately, people or those they are talking about will not only live their lives cheerfully but also act as state leaders. This is the real scandal in my opinion. But I also have to say, when it comes to magnetic tapes, we can talk about data from about 50,000 networks, which are more or less complete on these famous magnetic tapes. We're hoping the magnetic tapes are still there, so their destruction won't be decided by the government, or by chance, there won't be a fire in the basement of the Constitutional Protection Office. I believe that this is a huge amount of data that should be processed, and not - as I said, as one of the first acts of the post-2010 Orbán government - to be transferred from the Historical Archives to the well-guarded basement of the Constitutional Protection Office. This is the real scandal, these should be dealt with, and not just the horse-zung. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-93	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On the monitor, I see that there are no more keynote speakers. I note that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I will ask Congressman Varju if he wishes to speak. [[Laszlo Varju: Yes.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-09-22-94	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, We have now come to the point that, in a situation where my fellow Member, Mr Simon, began his speech by saying that this amendment seems technical, while it is a more substantive issue. It seems that not only the government has noticed that what it is doing is what it is, but it is also clear to the opposition. This may be a surprise to the government, but I respectfully point out that your scheming attempt - it can be placed in a very quotation mark on the trickster - is extremely harmful and will be exposed as a result of this debate. We know that, and here in the comments, it has already been said that what you are doing is technically unacceptable, politically unmanageable. Let us add one more aspect: from the economic side, serious disadvantages, risks, more expenditure on taxpayers' money is what you are doing with this proposal. What's really happening? After the centralised solution, they seek to outsource a task they will want to do for billions of forints, while doing this work with the international standard, and those organisations, workers who work there, have the opportunity to do so, have the readiness to do so, and could do so. To accept this law, let's just say there's a real chance, because you're going to force it through, but the consequence of this is that after fidesz friends, you can expect dismissal in the National Archives, because you're going to outsource this, and not with them, where the capacity is available and the source is available, you're going to have it done. Therefore, you are causing serious damage in this regard. Therefore, what you have brought here is unacceptable to us, since it cannot be justified either professionally, politically or economically. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Erzsébet Schmuck.]]
u2015-09-22-95	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're gonna have two-minute speeches, but I don't see a candidate. Further speeches may be made by Members. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see an application for that either. As no one has applied for any further speeches, Honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes.]] Secretary of State says yes. It is for the Secretary of State of Rétvár. Here you go. [[14.00]]
u2015-09-22-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to thank everyone who has spoken in the debate very briefly, also the person who has prepared, read the bill and commented, but also the person who has won an intuition during the debate, and that is why he shared his thoughts with us. To the second part of the bill, which laid down the rules for technical acceptance, there was no comment here, so I think that everyone agrees then, as a matter of handing over the various digital materials. The first part, on the other hand, triggered the thinking process. I also thank the representatives of the pro-government factions for their support and for their historical reflection. The head speaker of the MSZP reopened the debate on a matter that had been decided two years ago. But that debate was over then, the law amendment was adopted, it came into force, the new system of organizations has been in operation since then, and we could not hear it on the news or anywhere else that there would be a particular problem with operation. On Jobbik's part, too, the XX. We heard a better interpretation of the history of the century. I would not respond to that because it does not belong to this bill, but I think it is important to say in relation to other opposition contributions that there has not been any outsourcing here. After all, these documents are not transferred from the archives to Veritas, but to the Justice Office, so that the documents of a functioning administrative and administrative body will be transferred to the Veritas History Institute, the basis of which will be established. I think it's clearly good that this special file can be handled by a special institute that clearly deals with the history of the last 150 years. And even though the MSZP has an excuse to ignore this era, it does. Veritas examines Hungarian history from the time of reform or from the freedom fight of 48 to the process of system change, and the process of the change of regime is a very important part of the compensation process. I think we can be very happy to see people dealing with this professionally and scientifically demanding. So there's no outsourcing, there's gonna be civil servants and civil servants doing scientific work and exploratory work with these documents every day. The Veritas Institute is one of the institutions of the Hungarian state, which is why within the jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the state, an administrative body is assigned this document to a historical body. I therefore hope that during the votes and then the final vote, as many factions as possible will be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-97	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the jurisdiction of certain courts in civil and criminal matters will follow until closure. Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz, his own motion is T/6244. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2015-09-22-98	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. It is of particular importance that, when Hungary is under such pressure and such a mass of immigrants arrives in Hungary, the whole legislation should monitor the facts and the pressures that the various authorities are under and, accordingly, if this pressure changes or occurs elsewhere, the legislation should adapt to this. This is especially true when we talk about changing circumstances. One minute there's an effect here and the next, another part of the country. This is true in other cases, as we have now dealt with issues such as police activity and whether the police are sufficient to protect the border, and in this connection, we have taken a decision in which we have adopted the new regulation that the defence can act in the same way as the police in order to protect the country's borders. When we are talking about other authorities, and by this I mean the courts, we have to deal with the question of whether, if questions falling within the jurisdiction of the court arise, remedies in which some courts have a particular role to play in terms of jurisdiction, such as the courts in Szeged now, these courts will be able to carry out their activities in changing circumstances. We have to go ahead. We see how pressure changes across the country's different borders. So far, there has been pressure on the Serbian border section, and accordingly the court proceedings concerning the types of crime that we recently introduced into Hungarian law took place in Szeged. This was also typically justified, since the vast majority and almost all of the crimes took place at this stage of the border. Accordingly, it was justified that the Szeged District Court had previously been designated as a competent court for this type of crime. In cases where there were so-called grounds of inadequacy for immigrants, so if a person submitted his application and, in view of the inadequacy, rejected it at the first stage under the new rules, the court in Szeged had to act as an administrative and labour court in administrative matters. However, the situation has changed. We see that, with the creation of the border lock, the pressure that occurred at this border section has typically reached almost 10,000 people who have flown through this border section and are no longer present here. In recent days, the number of illegal offenders has fallen below 100, and the number of applications is not so high. On the other hand, the problem occurs again in another border section, the Croatian border section. Accordingly, if only the Szeged courts are competent in this case, then on the one hand, these courts will be overloaded, and on the other hand, if there is a personal appearance, this is clear in the criminal proceedings, but in the administrative case, we are talking about a non-court procedure, but there may also be a personal hearing, that is also quite a distance. Therefore, based on these two reasons, from the load and the journey, it is important to designate other competent courts, typically based on the characteristics of the territory in Pécs and Zalaegerszeg, the same courts, such as district courts and administrative and labour courts, can be designated for these tasks. I believe that, and this is also included in this proposal, that if this legislation is now passed by Parliament, then in the case of this type of crime and in administrative proceedings such as this type of procedure, the burden of the courts will be much less. So the task will be set between the courts of the country dealing with it, and accordingly, the prosecutions, we are talking about specific criminal proceedings, a kind of crime, distributed in these courts, that these courts can carry out their task in a sufficiently flat-out manner, not under time pressure. And at the right time, so quickly, in accordance with the law, they can make judgments and decisions. This is what this proposal is for, therefore, a relatively short, not long proposal, but a very important proposal for the imposition of courts. I would like to ask my fellow Members, in view of the rapid progress made, to support this bill. I think that those who fundamentally disagreed with the aim of the law may consider this part to be eligible. For in this case, it is not a matter of fundamentally rewriting the rules currently in force, but of establishing the burden of the courts according to this law, according to the establishment of sound, good judicial judgments or decisions. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State. It says yes. Mr. Secretary of State Répássy. Here.
u2015-09-22-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies The civil procedure is 326. § 13 specifies that the 2007 LXXX on asylum. in proceedings for judicial review of an administrative decision under law and the Government Decree implementing it, which court is entitled to act. The new CXL 2015 with an exception to paragraph 13. Paragraph 14 of the Act establishes the exclusive competence of the Administrative and Labour Court of Szeged to carry out review procedures in relation to applications submitted in the transit zone in order to be considered close to the Serbian-Hungarian border most affected by the migration wave, given the large number of cases. [[14.10]] Paragraph 2 of the Act specifies that the 2007 LXXX on asylum. in proceedings for judicial review of an administrative decision under law and the Government Decree implementing it, which court is entitled to act. The new CXL 2015 with an exception to paragraph 13. Paragraph 14 of the Act establishes the exclusive competence of the Administrative and Labour Court of Szeged to carry out review procedures in relation to applications submitted in the transit zone in order to be considered close to the Serbian-Hungarian border most affected by the migration wave, given the large number of cases.(14.10)The bill is a civil procedure 326. It intends to amend paragraph 14 of Article 14 in view of the change in the scope of the migratory pressure and the impact on the Croatian border section. The intention of the proposal is to divide the workload between several courts and, where possible, adjust the place of assessment to the applicant's possible place of residence. The main rule is to remove three counties from the proposal, Baranya, Zala and Somogy counties, and divide these three counties between two administrative and labour courts. Zala and Somogy County are listed at the Zalaegerszeg Administrative and Labour Court, Baranya County, Pécs. At the same time, the proposal makes an additional exception for Somogy County for a more proportionate distribution of cases and therefore lists Barcs in Somogy County as the Pécs Administrative and Labour Court. The 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings The proposal also intends to amend the law. In view of the development of the migration situation, the government also ordered the crisis caused by mass immigration in the territory of Baranya County, Somogy County, Zala County and Vas County. However, according to the current rules of the Criminal Procedure Act, which were adopted a few weeks ago, the Court of Justice of Szeged and the General Court of Szeged are currently solely competent to assess the offences which may be committed in connection with the border closure, irrespective of where they were committed. The maintenance of the exclusive competence of the Szeged District Court and the General Court with regard to the departments affected by the crisis is not justified due to the loss of long distances and the efficiency of implementation, and the proposal therefore includes the designation of courts capable of carrying out proceedings. According to the new rules, the District Court of Zalaegerszeg in Somogy County, with the exception of Barcs County, and the General Court in Zalaegerszeg County, Baranya County, together with the Barcs area from Somogy County, will be the Pécs District Court and the General Court. In the case of crimes committed elsewhere, the District Court and the General Court of Szeged will continue to be competent. Dear House, The government agrees with the bill, and I ask you to support the adoption of the law. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-102	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would just like to say about the bill before us, which concerns the jurisdiction of certain courts in civil and criminal matters, namely, the 1 3rd edition of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. Act and Act XIX of 1998 on Criminal Procedure The focus is on amending the relevant sections of the Act. The main purpose of the amendment of the law is to include, in view of the migration situation that has arisen, the designation of courts capable of carrying out proceedings. The government also ordered the crisis caused by mass immigration in the territory of Baranya County, Somogy County, Zala County and Vas County. With regard to the counties affected by the crisis, the maintenance of the exclusive competence of the Szeged District Court and the General Court and the Administrative and Labour Court is not justified because of the long distances and the reduced effectiveness of implementation, and has therefore designated the appropriate courts. In the context of preventing the length of criminal proceedings, let me say that the pressure on the courts along the border must be reduced as soon as possible. In Hungary, courts are often accused of the slow conduct of proceedings, especially in this exceptional situation, of the need to relieve the burden of the courts. In addition, according to the legislative amendments, criminal proceedings relating to the crisis caused by mass immigration should be brought before the authorities in all other cases. The submission therefore reduces, in particular, the burden on each court by transferring part of the burden. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-103	Thank you, too. The lead speaker of the MSZP, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We could say what we are trying to suggest here, our fellow Members, that this is all a technical amendment, which does nothing but involve other courts in these special criminal proceedings rather than the busy Csongrád county courts. And obviously, if that's how someone interprets it, then why can't the opposition really support it? However, there are several problems with the proposal before us. One is that this is one of the eloquent evidence of the government's haste about immigration. Some things are deliberate - the Prime Minister has also spoken about this at a private faction meeting, namely that it was in your interest to excite anger. [[Márius Révész: Don't lie!]] - and probably the latter, which we are discussing, is not necessarily intentional, is simply another sign of government dilettantism. For everyone knew and everyone had foreseen that this kind of wave of immigration would not stop at Röszke's, it would not stop at Csongrád County. In particular, everyone warned that if this fence was built, refugees would be expected to react - and this was the case - to a different or partly different route to cross the border. If we had foreseen this, then the idea that you would appoint competent courts only and exclusively in Csongrád County was a mistake, since you could predict and see that the refugee crisis would not narrow down to this one county or remain as a problem in this one county. However, it is strange that, I think, three days after the adoption of the law, you are forced to present an amendment on the same subject. I would also like to add that it cannot be separated from this proposal, which once again seems technical, that the rule of law of these proceedings is highly questionable. Now, I am not referring specifically to the crisis caused by mass immigration - as I said in a previous debate yesterday, I consider the concept of wood as a circle of iron, and you have created this simply to avoid their two-thirds obligation to legislate and try to fix what should have been laid down in a half-year law - but here I am thinking specifically of criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the oldest criminal prosecution principles is that everyone can defend in their own language and be presented with the charges against them in their own language. You, again to the greater glory of your government, have violated this principle, for example, not to mention the rules of procedure for minors, and have said that there is no need to translate even the part of the indictment concerning it into the language of the defendant, so that it can be accused and thus condemned. [[14.20]] These provisions, which you are about to introduce here, are closely linked to this procedure and, moreover, one cannot go without saying, even if this bill before us lays down only rules of competence. I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you are already touching this system and if you are changing jurisdiction, why not do so at systemic level. If mass immigration again affects other counties because, let's say, they put their iron curtains on the Croatian-Hungarian border, and, let's say, will affect the Slovenian-Hungarian border, or even the Romanian-Hungarian border, will we amend the rules of competence again? Why can't we do that if we are already touched by the fact that, where this crisis has been declared, the legislation before us will create a certain competence in the respective counties concerned? By the way, we have tabled an amendment to this, and I have submitted it, at least that is what they should consider, and then we do not always have to touch the law when the government feels like ordering the crisis caused by mass immigration to a next county. That is, not only did this law fail on the basis of which it is based, and this wave of legislation that you are working on in immigration, but I do not think that the bill before us is good professionally. By the way, this is also an eloquent proof of your attitude towards legislation and governance. It is not the first law that Parliament makes and the government adapts to it, but what measures the government makes and decisions, and then Parliament and the legislation adapts to it, because this is what it is about: if it introduces crisis situations in other counties, then the Parliament will adapt the rules of jurisdiction and amend the law. I find this unacceptable, but in any case, it is a good sign of your attitude. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly not be able to support this. I would also like to say that I would like to know how you will want to create the financial implications of all this, and I would also like to know what you want to do with the situation that the Attorney General spoke about, which can be summarised roughly so that you can hold the fort until the end of this year and then not; and then only if the Public Prosecutor's Office receives a budget supplement that allows the development of staff and allows the purchase of the resources and assets that are measured accordingly. I am only asking this, ladies and gentlemen, because you have already adopted the budget. So you could say that, and it would be easy for the rapporteur to say that we will discuss this in the debate on the budget; we cannot discuss it, Mr honourable Member, because you have already adopted the budget figures. That is why I do not think it is good to adopt budget figures so early, because one cannot respond to future events. How, then, do you intend to solve these financial problems of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts, which will inevitably arise or have already been partially raised? More budget-modification laws? Or some other way. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the proposal before us is part of a basically flawed legislative process, it is not good professionally, it reflects government rush and otherwise unacceptable government and government pro-government attitude, so we will certainly not support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-105	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of KDNP is coming. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-106	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In eight and a half months, more than 200,000 illegal immigrants arrived to Hungary this year. During the invasion of immigration, our country has, with great difficulty and complete compliance with international legal conventions as well as its EU obligations under the Schengen Treaty. Hungary is in position. Croatia, however, collapsed in the course of one day with regard to its immigration system, which forced the Hungarian government to declare the crisis caused by mass immigration in Hungary after Csongrád and Bács-Kiskun to further counties, namely the territories of Baranya, Somogy, Zala and Vas counties. Ladies and Gentlemen, By extending to another four counties of the crisis caused by mass immigration, the Szeged District Court and the General Court, as well as the maintenance of the exclusive competence of the administrative and labour courts, are both civil as well as criminal matters completely unjustified because of the loss of long distances and the efficiency of enforcement. Let us now look at the bill on civil and criminal grounds. Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act Law 326 Paragraph 14 shall be replaced by the following:. As a result of proceedings carried out at the border under the law on asylum, except as provided for in points (b) and (c), the Administrative and Labour Court of Szeged, in the case of settlements belonging to the jurisdiction of the Barcsi District Court and in the territory of Baranya County, the Administrative and Labour Court of Pécs, the county of Zala and Somogy, with the exception of the territory of the municipalities belonging to the jurisdiction area of the Barcsi District Court, the Administrative and Labour Court of Zalaegerszeg is competent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With regard to criminal proceedings, Article XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings Law 17. § 6 is added to paragraph 542/D. The Court of Justice of Szeged shall act in cases falling within the jurisdiction of a district court, with the exception of those provided for in paragraph 6a, in a case falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of Szeged. The exceptions to paragraph 6a are: in the case of municipalities belonging to the jurisdiction area of Barcsi District Court and in the territory of Baranya County, the Court of Justice of Pécs, Zala County, Somogy County, the District Court of Zalaegerszeg, and in the case falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, the General Court of Zalaegerszeg. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports T/6244. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-107	Thank you very much. Member Gábor Staudt is the next speaker, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-09-22-108	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to say in advance that we will support this proposal, although we have a lot of professional counter-arguments and we find it problematic in the way in which this proposal is presented, and we may be able to see other such proposals in the future. So our vote in favour is only for the situation, and I would like to signal it to Mr Tuzson Bence. Although I know that the situation is critical, and at this point, man is rushing, but with even the involvement of the opposition - and I think we have proved in the immigration situation that we can be a constructive opposition, well, in such a situation, they could have asked for the opinion of the opposition or at least the constructive part of it, and then we could have made a law that solves problems in the longer term, because this is a professional problem. So we support him, but he's gnashing his teeth. I'll explain why. In part of the professional arguments, I can agree with some of the comments made by Gergely Bárándy, which suggest that this is a hasty legislation, not the way it should be resolved, that in the future there will be further amendments, but I am not looking for excuses, as I have said, why we should not support it in this situation. [[14.30]] But it's kind of weird, and we told you that when the Szeged courts were assigned to do this job, it's not gonna be enough. So, on the one hand, they will be overwhelmed that if they have to deal with an exclusive area of responsibility, and on the other hand, life can develop in such a way that these immigrants may go elsewhere, they will take a different direction. That's what happened, and it wasn't hard to predict. Of course, in some ways, it's a good thing the border lock was so effective, we're happy about that. Otherwise, it's gonna have to be built on. So if they continue to build it and it will be as effective there, then I have to say that we have done something in the direction to protect Hungary. Of course, Jobbik has already said in the building of the fence that these steps will be insufficient without live force. Since then, the government has seen it, and the army, following the decision of the Parliament, will also be able to deploy it. Of course, we also supported this. But what we have always said is that, unfortunately, a fence or a line of fences, if it is not as brutal as we see in many places in the world, concrete walls of 5-6 meters, although the living force is being used there, I would add; so if we are not talking about such a brutal fence, then, in this case, it certainly is true at such a fence, especially if there was so much time to prepare for this, although we have said this before that there will be a problem, but the point is that if we want to build it in this time, it is not enough without living power. And it's confirmed that it's not enough. But let us hope that the fence will continue to be built, that the live force will be there, and I would add - already in the parentheses of the parentheses - that in the long run we should really think about restoring the border guard. This has also been said for some time now that it should not have been stopped, and if it has been lifted, then the present situation should confirm that it must indeed be restored, because, even in laymanly terms, I do not want to go into professional arguments, but it can also be seen with a lay-up thinking that a border defence task in such a critical situation is not a military task and not a police task. It is no longer possible to delegate the task to the police, and then the police will have the legal responsibility to do so, but the police's duties, usually in their jurisdiction or in most countries, and the tasks they need to solve are not essentially border protection. It requires a completely different type of attitude and a different type of organ, just as investigating a crime is not necessarily an area that could be better addressed by other bodies in their jurisdiction. It is also worth seeing that whoever has spoken in the press so many times, Mr Bakondi, who is now, I hope I am correct, the Prime Minister's chief advisor, perhaps in such border protection matters, must now see where he served before the management of disaster protection. Was he with the police or was he in the defense? No, as far as I know, he was a border guard Major General, and correct me if I'm wrong. He was completed in border surveillance before disaster control, and that is why, probably, he was selected for this task. If we are talking about effective border protection, then that's exactly the kind of professional knowledge that used to be in the border guard, and now it's flowed through consultants or border guards to the police in some way, well, that's not the kind of expertise that's supposed to fall out, and it could be used by an independent border guard. So these are the arguments that can be said. However, back to the proposal, I must say that the involvement of the courts in Pécs, Zalaegerszeg, is, of course, justified from the point of view of the workload, but what if these immigrants go on or, say, come from the Romanian border - we will amend the law again, Mr. Secretary of State? I may also ask the rapporteur, but it is clear that the rapporteur is following the events in this regard that this task must be resolved somehow. But it would be better if we solved this task in such a way that we would be absolutely open to a number of solutions, whether it could be ordered to cross the border or to which part he would be detained. Of course, the training of judges may be against the fact that this requires expertise, and I understand that, my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson, but the question arises here, however, whether it is not easier to temporarily transfer a judge with a court decision or a court decision than to amend a law to Parliament. I'm gonna take the chance that it might be easier to do this organizationally, and maybe faster. We can see that you did not have your four-fifths for this proposal, although Jobbik gnashed - as I said - supported it, but therefore it cannot be a law with sufficient speed. By the way, my fellow Member Schiffer - I am glad that he has arrived - will obviously say so, and if I am aware that the LMP does not support this proposal, perhaps the proposal has changed since then, perhaps he said that the LMP is more on the side of the people and less on the side of the courts. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You say that.]] I understand this, of course, from the point of view that it is obviously the people who turn to the state - like the court is a body of the state - but in this case, the burden of the courts must also be taken into account, and judges who do not know are not able to do so now, but I have to risk that those judges are working with little sleep time down there in the Szeged area, and all the respect they have to do in these proceedings is not of their own free will, obviously, but how they stand on the ground. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes, they do it willingly!]] But we should definitely find a solution that in the future - and Mr Secretary of State might be able to say something about the burden of the case in the statistics - we should avoid that if the course of immigration changes and we do not manage to stop immigrants there, or if the fence is not so much built or if the force of living is deployed there, then this could also affect other counties, so let us say, Peace, Hajdú, Szabolcs, and we could count them, then they also require a legislative amendment. So, unfortunately, this was an expected amendment to the law, and we're sorry that you didn't listen to us in time. I also have to say, and I really do not want all the troubles of the immigration situation to be evaluated in a speech and in a technical speech or in a technical amendment speech, but we should also include new news. It did not appear in the right-wing media, and this also concerns the reception of immigrants and the management of the situation, that it is true that when the United States of America announced, where we see not too many crossings at the Mexican-American border, we do not see too much passage at the borders of Israel or Australia, so I do not understand the regrets of the European liberals; it is often in the US media that Hungary is trying to deal badly with the situation that is not to blame for us, by the way, the great powers. But we're trying with at least one chicken cage and some force compared to the Israeli or American solution, and I'm not going to degrade it right now, but we're trying to defend ourselves with a chicken cage compared to those protective equipment. Now, these states or the media and the European Union are attacking us to go too far beyond all kinds of international treaties, which, by the way, is not true, but, on the other hand, if I have already mentioned these countries, the Israeli Prime Minister has stated that they are not accepting a refugee, they are strengthening border protection, and no man in or out, even the border protection which is not modest. By the way, I would add that this is probably the most effective from their point of view, because if they didn't, then their state would no longer be on the face of the earth and would have been swept away, so this is the key to their survival, and now this is also the key to Hungary's survival, everyone has to take this into account. But my fellow Member Schiffer may consider this gaudism, referring here to our former colleague Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, but unfortunately this is an example that we need to learn from either America or Israel. In a situation where, if the same concept of state protection can be effective in Hungary, which they have, it must be learned, and if the international community challenges Hungary, can it be asked whether a step can be taken in the United States of America, Australia or Israel, and not in Hungary? [[14.40]] So this is a double standard, and we have always rejected double standards from the point of view of individuals and states. By the way, based on the new polls - I say this only to my fellow Member Schiffer - LMP voters are increasingly anti-immigration. But to conclude with a fact I promised: the U.S. is the 10,000 admitted immigrant Syrians, whose reception has been announced - otherwise the process has not just begun - they have appeared in the Balliberal press, they have examined these 10,000 people for a year and a half, a year and a half with all kinds of secret service involvement, and most of all, women and children who are accepted and are only 10,000 people. Compared to this, we can see what chaos there is in Hungary. And on top of that, nearly $16,000 per person in America is the cost of health care, intelligence control costs per person, that's what they spend on a future refugee - they obviously pay attention to providing support for real refugees. The point is, therefore, by concluding that we support the proposal, but we do not think it is good professionally, in the future these problems will arise, but we will be able to accept the rush that should not have happened if you had listened to us in time, and we ask that in the future, if we say winter is coming, and this situation goes back or the pace of immigration is going down a little bit, then here in Parliament we will not be told that the problem has been resolved, but that we should prepare for spring, that we should prepare for events that could happen in spring, because believe that these events will happen, and that if we are not prepared effectively enough, then this wave of immigration will be the first, and we will not be able to stop it, and we should definitely avoid this. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-109	Thank you very much. Here comes the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman András Schiffer, Group Leader. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The reason Gábor Staudt still has to work on the munchies is because it's like they're on the side of people and not on the side of the courts, or vice versa, I don't know, I'm sure I didn't say it, so here's more... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] - we should ask for more rhetorical lessons. There are a lot of questions to the author about the concrete proposal, what will happen if, say, from Austria or Germany, asylum seekers who have been rejected are pushed back to Hungary? Then the Győr-Moson-Sopron County and the Győr Tribunal and the Szombathely Tribunal will be given such exclusive jurisdiction; if the direction turns and, say, they try to move towards Romania, then the counties of East Hungary? If we do not give it to God, is a wave of refugees coming from Ukraine, will it be the Nyíregyházi and Miskolc Tribunal that we are thinking of? Not to mention that there is a slight error in this present proposal, which is an obvious consequence of the rapid work, there is the small border section that separates Slovenia from Vas County, and according to the current proposal that, for example, if, by chance, this region is very sharp, dimbes hilly, but if, let's say, people are trying to move from Slovenia to Hungary, Vas County illegally, after they no longer cross the border from Zala County, they should be transported nicely to Szeged on the basis of the submission and the previous amendment of the law. So I would ask my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson, to withdraw this bill, because the solution to such extraordinary situations is not to constantly redefine the jurisdiction of the courts as the extraordinary situation develops, and to deal with the rules governing the jurisdiction of the courts from house rules to house every week or urgently. In addition, my fellow Member, there is now an immigration crisis, the characteristics of which have been roughly scanned by the government, the nationalist, but there may be many other types of crisis that would cause a special strain on the courts. The new Pp. and the new law on criminal proceedings are about to be amended. A procedure or rules on the jurisdiction of the courts in the most fortunate countries are designed to ensure that the court order or system of organisation is also operational in all kinds of unexpected situations - perhaps Hungary should follow. It is quite simply that, if we change jurisdiction between courts due to various current events, crises and new types of crime, with a derogation from house rules, as a matter of urgency, every week, it causes an untraceable situation within the judiciary itself. And one more thing: I am taking advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that, behind this consideration, there is also the fact that the Prime Minister was not so brave as to say that Hungary is putting aside the Geneva Convention - although I think that next week in New York he will have an excellent opportunity to perhaps talk about what kind of asylum regime he wants in the world - but Hungary has emptied the entire asylum procedure to such an extent that it doesn't really matter what judge makes these decisions. I think that while judgments are being announced on behalf of Hungary, on behalf of the Republic, different judicial decisions are being taken, however, we should take the rules of procedure of our own seriously so that, on the one hand, it can be calculated which court and which judges will judge, take decisions, and that these judges in their respective jurisdictions should be properly trained in terms of typical procedures, facts, material law, and receive appropriate further training. There is only one reason for this haste, and I would like to emphasise once again: to indicate to everyone that the only outcome of asylum procedures is possible in Hungary, at least in a mass immigration situation; from then on, this whole asylum procedure in Hungary is nothing more than a fig leaf that can be shown in international law. I don't think this is the way to go. At a time when Hungary is at the mercy of thousands of other countries in this crisis, we should not seek procedures that clearly remove the various obligations of the international conventions for Hungary. The fact that these new courts are also proposed to receive prosecutions for criminal matters such as the illicit crossing of the border lock, the destruction of the border lock and the rest, so that these crimes are not actually possible in this area of jurisdiction at present. I understand that the border lock is being built, and let's think about the future, but maybe when we think about the future, we shouldn't think about it for two weeks and not three weeks. Laws on procedural law should be drawn up, amended, and the jurisdiction of the courts should be given to the legislature by standing the test of time for decades, and, where appropriate, by providing the basis for judicial training and further training. That's no way to take procedures seriously. The ad hoc shift of jurisdiction rules and judges from one county seat to another... I understand that, in a completely empty form of procedure or procedures, considering the relevant criminal proceedings, it does not matter who makes the decisions, but I also think that, on the one hand, it may seem like a good idea in the short term, but, in the medium term, it is quite certain that Hungary's ability to assert its interests will be further destroyed, and in the medium term, it is against national interests that Hungary is obviously against international legal regimes. Once again, there will be an opportunity for the Prime Minister at the UN General Assembly next week, suggest these large-scale plans there, and then you can think further. [[14.50]] Two, I would very much like to avoid the fact that in two weeks' time, three weeks' time, Tuzson Bence has to come up with another law, asking for another four-fifth derogation or requesting urgency because the situation is changing at the Romanian border, the situation is changing at the Western border, or the situation is changing at the Ukrainian border. Procedural laws and organizational laws should be designed in such a way that we not only respond in advance to the different situations that may arise in the wave of immigration, but also other crises in the life of a country, and the procedural law, the judicial system, must also be prepared for this. Perhaps we should not drag these procedural laws, but we should finally have two or three procedural codes that, for the first time in Hungary's history, might stand the test of time. I think that's what we should focus on. Once again, I would recommend to the rapporteur that you take a closer look at the administrative map of Hungary, because there is a hole on the border. It is not certain that Bence Tuzson wishes that if a person from Slovenia wants to go through Bajánsenye or Felsőszölnök, the procedure will be carried out in Szeged, and this would be the case as it stands. I'm guessing that's not the legislative intention. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-111	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Répássy asked for the floor. Here.
u2015-09-22-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I wanted to listen to all the keynote speeches on purpose, and I would like to clarify a few misunderstandings, although my fellow Members who know the legislation are involved in the debate. That is why I would like to clarify a few things, because I think that the debate is completely misleading. First of all, we know together that the crime is not usually the illegal crossing of the border, but the crossing of the border, the destruction, crossing or circumventing the border lock. So all the speculation about where this legislation is not going to apply is based on the false assumption that there will also be a border closure on those border sections. The Slovenian-Hungarian border is an internal border with Schengen, so there is no way to build a border lock on it. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Croatian, Serbian and Romanian, these are all not Schengen internal borders, especially the Serb, which is not even the border of the European Union, so the border seal can be built here, and the border-locking crimes are therefore only on the Croatian, Serbian and Romanian border sections. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Ukrainian!]] - perhaps on the border section of Ukraine, indeed - can be done. But as I said, it's related to the construction of the border lock, to the physical location of the border lock. Secondly, the exclusive competence, namely that this law creates an exclusive competence for these criminal proceedings, is a standard practice. Now that we have assigned exclusive jurisdiction only to courts based in Budapest, so that the laws have designated courts based in Budapest as exclusively competent courts, it does not mean that other courts cannot be given exclusive jurisdiction. Therefore, this solution is an established rule of jurisdiction, exclusive competence, jurisdiction in criminal proceedings and other proceedings, administrative proceedings or civil proceedings. So I don't understand why you think there's going to be some kind of extraordinary rule going on here. It is true that these courts are the courts closest to the place where the crimes are to be committed, but that is the whole point of the exclusive jurisdiction: that the court to which it is most easily possible to bring the perpetrator may be brought before him, where the prosecution and defence can be guaranteed in every respect. Finally, a very important question, my fellow Members. I must say that, unfortunately, in this Chamber, and also from Gergely Bárándy, who I have never doubted, that he has come to the profession of criminal proceedings, because he teaches this, it is therefore a complete mistake about the use of his mother tongue that he has spoken here, and unfortunately from Klubrádió to the Parliament's Chamber that everyone is telling the lie that in these proceedings he cannot use his own mother tongue. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 9 of the Criminal Procedure Act. Article 2, which lays down the general rules for the use of the mother tongue, says: "The language of the criminal proceedings is Hungarian. Because of the knowledge of the Hungarian language, no one can be at a disadvantage. In criminal proceedings, both orally and in writing, everyone can use their mother tongue, an international treaty proclaimed by law, their regional or ethnic language, or, if they do not know the Hungarian language, the other language they are known to use. The translation of the decision and other official document to be served under this law shall be provided by the court, prosecutor or investigating authority which has taken the decision or issued the official document. Unless otherwise provided for in the law, the document to be served shall not be translated if expressly renounced by the data subject. This general rule should therefore also apply to all criminal proceedings relating to the breach of the border seal. Therefore, there is no violation of any right which would otherwise be expected of the defendants in general criminal proceedings. That is, if he refuses to be served in the language he understands, only the translation of the document may be omitted. So once again, I would like to say very strongly to all the lawyers who sign all kinds of petitions, that at least the false statement is that the principle of using the mother tongue in these proceedings is violated. They will not be harmed, they can stick to their mother tongue throughout the criminal proceedings. And if there are lawyers - in these proceedings the law on criminal proceedings also requires that protection is mandatory in these proceedings, so the defender who is present there clearly informs the defendant that he can stick to his mother tongue. I assume you'll do it. I guess if this hasn't worked out by now, the Bar Association will bring that up to date with proper training to the lawyers. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that those who know about the law on criminal proceedings do not use that argument anymore. In many ways, this procedure differs from the general rules, and I do not dispute that, this is a special procedure, but in this respect, there is no difference in the principles of criminal proceedings. Obviously, if necessary, in a procedure in Strasbourg, when such a case is reached, we will have to present the rules of the fair procedure. Hungary has to demonstrate the rules that Hungary complies with. For example, the conditions for using the mother tongue, the attachment to the mother tongue, are applied throughout this criminal proceedings. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-22-113	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, two-minute speeches are now taking place. First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer, LMP. Here.
u2015-09-22-114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, your conduct was perfectly correct. It's just that I'm not at all obliged to protect Gergely Bárándy, not even because she obviously knows the right to criminal proceedings much better than I am, but in one small thing, Mr. Secretary of State, she has given me a little kummantani. The thing is, no one has said that to me - but Gergely Bárándy will deny me at most, or at least I very much hope that no one has said that - that you cannot use your mother tongue at all in these proceedings. The dog is buried there, what the Secretary of State said, that he may renounce, for example, the indictment being given to him in Urdu or Pashtu. My question - and answer that, Mr Secretary - is that before the person concerned renounces his request for the indictment in his mother tongue, in which language he was informed, and in what circumstances he will be fully informed of his rights and of the relevant requirements of Hungarian law. That's the point, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The resignation will be signed by him.]] Yes, what language documents are signed and whether you will be fully informed about this, that is the only question. And in that, how can I say it? - You are absolutely right, Mr. Secretary of State, that this is a very specific criminal procedure, and we could say that this is a false prosecution, because the purpose of a criminal proceeding is to establish guilt and impose a penalty. We can see here that the purpose of criminal proceedings is not, in fact, a covert alien police procedure, where the state, as the holder of the criminal power, is absolutely not interested in imposing punishment, but in knowing these people outside the country as soon as possible. [[15.00]] I think that's how you should start with these procedures, by the way. Once again, I would like to expect an answer from the Secretary of State on whether, to his knowledge, this type of information will take place. What language does it take? In what circumstances is this waiver written by the persons subject to the procedure? Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-115	Congressman Gergely Bárándy, two minutes!
u2015-09-22-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Schiffer made it a little easier for me. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, you have misunderstood something very much if you think that any of the opposition speakers here generally opposed the lack of use of their mother tongue. In particular, I object to the provision, but correct me, Mr Secretary of State, if this is not in the law, that there is no need to translate the part of the indictment in this procedure into the language of the charged person. I think that this is a problem, because you were the one who said that if the person concerned expressly waives this right, then the fact may be that, let's say, they do not translate the relevant part of the indictment. But if I am well aware and understood the law that we adopted earlier, it says that it is not necessary to translate the relevant part of the indictment on a general basis, that is, not only if it expressly renounces it, but does not need to be translated if it is specifically requested. Even if a loaded person expressly requests it, they will not translate the relevant part of the indictment in writing. Tell me, Secretary of State, that this is not the case, because the wording probably has to cast doubt on you, if so many experts who really know something about criminal proceedings misinterpret the situation. It's just that I think it's the right interpretation, and it's actually a problem. The other, and I said that here, but I don't want to bring you here any longer, that there really isn't much difference between this procedure and the static procedure. In that time, honourable Members, it is impossible to find out the material truth. It is indeed similar to an alien police procedure, as Congressman Schiffer said, the problem is that this has criminal consequences. Indeed, it will be decided in Strasbourg whether it can be held or not, and since there is no time for that, I would then respond in a next speech to the State Secretary's responses to the border closure or to the matter of jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-117	Here comes Congressman Márius Révész, in two minutes.
u2015-09-22-118	Dear House, I wanted to comment at a previous stage of the debate. In fact, it turns out to me that several parties, several fellow Members, simply do not feel the weight of the problem. So you have no idea what a serious problem this is, and on top of that, Congressman Bárándy shamelessly, let's just say he's lying, not telling the truth, or misinformed me here in front of Parliament and at the faction meeting. I was there with you, and no one said anything about us being interested in sharpening the problem. It has been said that it is a good thing for us that the MSZP talks about such nonsense and nonsense all the time, so that is what we talked about, but nothing else. So for everyone to feel the weight of the problem, two thousand people arrived three years ago, four thousand two years ago, 12 thousand last year, and now we're at about two hundred thirty-one thousand this year. Obviously, these numbers speak for themselves. In April-May, when someone predicted that by the end of the year - it wasn't even five months ago - the number of refugees could reach a hundred thousand, everyone's disbelief waved their heads that it was a fairy tale. Even in June, you said that the whole thing was fiction, there is no such problem, and now you are asking us that we are not prepared enough for the situation. Unfortunately, the fact is that we were not prepared, because we did not think that the leaders of the Union would say so much nonsense, and as a result, tens of thousands of people have come to these invitations these days and weeks. 6,000 people arrived in March - 6,000! Today is a day when more people come in one day, even in March we thought it was an extremely big number. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] There is no normal situation, Congressman Bárándy, and it is not the next year's budget that needs to be changed if you have listened, but this year's budget must also be changed, because no one has thought about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That the refugees will arrive at this rate. And just one last sentence: Germany has just announced that it will stop rail transport on the Budapest-Salzburg-München line [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Germany will soon announce that it is unable to receive refugees. The question is, what then, fellow Members?
u2015-09-22-119	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-09-22-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would add so much in interpreting Jobbik's opinion, since it was about interpreters, that I know that, although the criminal proceedings here have better knowledge than I, that an interpreter is always present. So it's always down to what they say to a man who's under trial. It is possible to waive the translation of the decision, of course it can be questioned whether the waiver is voluntary. I understand that international and Hungarian - let's call it Hungarian - there are liberal rights defenders there, and it is certain that if someone is called there without the basis of it or he did not want it to be CNN news, and the BBC will say so. In fact, we have seen that when immigrants appeared peacefully, they were often pissed off by international defenders. So even before the attack situations, there were video footage that clearly proved that this protection of rights was a bit of an attack. So I ask that we stop this liberal hysteria, the country is under attack, because there are many ways to put what is happening, but not only in us, but also in the neighbouring countries, as well as former chiefs of staff, have said that the movement of people in this amount may be considered, even unarmed in the first instance, an intrusion. The country cannot filter out who is crossing its borders, so it can be considered an attack in many ways against the country. We have also seen from Serbia that in many cases this happens physically, even beyond the verbal threat of physical threats. You should decide who's rooting for who. So my colleague Bárándy said that we will find out in Strasbourg. It may come out, but we are not rooting for the Hungarian state to be condemned on this issue. We are rooting for the problem to be solved and Hungary to be safe. Thank you.
u2015-09-22-121	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-22-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Firstly, I would also like to ask the authors and the government to consider, perhaps really, as Congressman Gábor Staudt said, a longer-term solution to this problem with this law. We do not want to submit an amendment because the opposition's amendments are not accepted. We may try to define, either with the Legislative Committee or with a proposal from its author, that we not only cover these areas of competence, but that we try to solve it for a long time, even if there is another migration on the part of migrants, even if, as Gábor Staudt said, the judges have taken over this situation. Then I would like to respond to a few things that have been said here. It is quite difficult to determine who has a mother tongue on this refugee issue, because when they throw away their papers and everyone tries to pretend to be a Syrian... - let me just give you an example. Those Albanian-ethnic criminals who stated in Germany that they only speak English and, by the way, Syrians and then got caught, what is their mother tongue at the moment? Or the people smugglers of Romanian origin who try to smuggle migrants into Germany dressed in gypsy costumes, what are their native languages, and what should they translate, say, these things? And then one more thing that András Schiffer mentioned here, and this is the ominous Geneva Convention, which everyone so much likes to refer to as a violation of Hungary. But one thing everyone forgets, and my fellow Member András Schiffer has also forgotten that in this Geneva Convention it is not only written that a country to whom asylum seekers turn has what obligations, but also that asylum seekers who seek asylum in a country have what obligations and rights they have. What rights and obligations should these people observe? Of course, rights and obligations that no one in our country will respect. It could be said that these migrants give a damn about this Geneva Convention. [[15.10]] Let me give you a few examples. For example, the Geneva Convention states that all refugees have responsibilities vis-à-vis the country where they are. In particular, it must be subject to the laws and regulations of the country itself and to measures taken to maintain public order. I do not know how much these migrants have experienced that they would submit to the laws they should comply with, the Hungarian laws they should comply with, or the measures that the authorities require them to take, for example, to give fingerprints, to try to register themselves, which Hungary is trying to comply with, but these people have objections to that. They also forget, and many say that such a crisis and such laws could not be made by the Hungarian government, as it has made laws. This, too, allow me to say a part of the Geneva Convention. Nothing in the Convention precludes a Contracting State from temporarily taking measures in relation to a particular person in war or other serious exceptional circumstances which it considers necessary for the security of the State until it finds that the person has actually fled and that the maintenance of the measures is necessary for the security of the State. So what does the treaty say? He says that there may be special cases where he can make such laws. I think it's a special case where, let's say, a country of nearly tens of millions is suddenly overrun by tens of thousands of people and doesn't even ask for asylum, but just wants to cross this country. This country has responsibilities, and it wants to enforce these obligations with these people. If this can happen under difficult circumstances, then there are provisions that the state can make. The most important thing here, too, which cannot be emphasized enough, is whether a person is indeed, indeed, a refugee and whether he poses any threat to that country from a national security point of view. These are also important provisions. And then there's one more thing that usually advocates and everyone forgets to a great extent and tells us what it is to build a fence. The Secretary of State also said that they could illegally cross the border. Of course, it's supposed to be illegal for a refugee to cross the border, enter a country on the green border, but when? This is also provided for in the Geneva Convention, which I would like to quote to you. Who have come directly from an area where their lives or freedoms have been threatened and who enter or reside in their territory without authorisation, provided that - and here comes the point - they immediately report to the authorities and provide sufficient justification for their illegal entry or presence. How many migrants have complied, say, with this provision of the Geneva Convention? He came over, say, at the green border, not at the actual and official border, saying that I was a refugee, please investigate my case, but came across the green border illegally, and immediately approached the first officer, the first official to whom he had applied, and said that he had come over... Do you know why they didn't go there? Because it was difficult to explain where his life was in danger in Serbia, what he was running from when he was taken down by buses, he was transferred across Serbia, and he was allowed to come to Hungary. Not only should it always be how heartless Hungary treats these people, but let us also look at how much these people really want to comply with the laws of Hungary and the European Union, the regulations! By the way, this shows how much they will want to integrate later into a society where they want to live their lives in the future, how much they were in danger, and how normal that is. I think that should be taken into account. One last sentence. We can be here in this house, and we've been given the right to make laws because we're sitting here on the trust of people. From the trust of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people expect the current Parliament, expect the government and expect the opposition parties to do their best when there is such a situation, in the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. I don't think there's anyone in this House who doesn't see the gravity of this case. If anyone doesn't see the gravity of this case, then I don't think it's suitable for a Member of Parliament. If, on the other hand, there is no one who does not see the gravity of this case and behaves as some Members have behaved in recent months, unlike Jobbik, who has said that we are putting all political interests and all kinds of party interests aside at the moment, because we need to work this thing together, but almost to work against Hungary with declarations, actions and the like, then I call this treason. After all, if in such an emergency someone is working against Hungary, it is treason. If someone is willing to go down to the border and spew the police with their statements and does not thank them for protecting Hungary's state border, I cannot call it treason. The honourable government should consider whether those who have committed such acts in recent months, such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, among others, deserve to be Hungarian MPs, or whether laws should be made in which we settle these matters once and for all for the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-22-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, who has asked for the floor.
u2015-09-22-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Szilágyi rightly quoted the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention. To be honest, I was thinking that, in fact, if we had written the proper rules of the Geneva Convention on government information posters published this summer, no one could have opposed it, because the Geneva Convention also says that the laws of the host country must be respected. But the other point that he referred to was that, under the Geneva Convention, the Contracting States should not punish refugees who come directly from areas where their lives or freedoms were threatened and who enter or reside in the territory without authorisation, provided that they immediately apply to the authorities and provide sufficient justification for their illegal entry or presence. There is also a huge debate about this. All sorts of great rights defenders say that everyone in Serbia can come in any way they want. That's kind of their view that the use of wire cutters is specifically compatible with the Geneva Convention. This is also claimed by the well-known lawyers of the Helsinki Commission. It is clear that, in Croatian terms, it is not possible for anyone from Croatia to come in from anywhere, since Croatia is a member of the Union and no one has considered Croatia to be a safe country yet. With regard to Serbia, the European Union makes a distinction between safe countries of origin and safe third countries, but Serbia is considered a safe country of origin by several Member States of the European Union, i.e. no refugees from there. Another question is whether it is safe as a transit country. The Hungarian government's firm position is that Serbia is a safe country from this point of view. Otherwise, in the asylum procedure, it is a presumption that he has fled a safe country, if the asylum seeker or the defendant proves that his life was in immediate danger in Serbia, then of course he can refer to the Geneva Convention. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-09-22-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Barándy, the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor again because I would like to respond to a number of things that have been said in the debate. I would like to start from the end, with Mr Szilágyi's speech. As long as we agree with each other, it will spread to the point that anyone who does not see the seriousness of this problem does not belong here in Parliament. From this point of view, we absolutely agree, you and I obviously thought about the problem of migration. That is why we have urged in so many cases, and I can now say that not weeks, but for months, five-party negotiations, the adoption of a consensus proposal, a mature national consensus action on this subject, otherwise agreed by all political parties or, where possible, all political parties. [[15.20]] Either it's collapsible or it's not, but the government hasn't tried, in any case, to initiate it, for weeks, for months. However, I think that if the government called such a meeting, or, for example, before going to the EU summit, it would at least call the faction leaders on a topic as important as the one before, it would help this situation. You've put yourself in a rather problematic situation. Mr Staudt's speech was an eloquent proof of this when he was trying to explain why a bad bill was voted against. 'Cause he doesn't want to hide behind what arguments and professional arguments, which, by the way, would justify not accepting it, so he's squeezing his teeth, gnashing his teeth, but still voting in favour of Fidesz's proposal. You can see, ladies and gentlemen, that you are doing nothing but supporting or being forced to support the legislative proposals that Fidesz teaches you, which, by the way, do not necessarily help to solve the problem of migration, because otherwise you would be caught up in the situation that Fidesz is also creating artificially that there are pro-immigration and anti-immigration people and political forces. This is simply nothing more than another great move by Árpád Habony, which is no longer original, because we have witnessed about 26 such confrontations over the last five years. Remember, I've quoted them many times, and I'm not doing it now, but if you want it and it's necessary to recite it, I'd be happy to do it. That's what you're stuck in. The only difference is that we refuse to support legislative proposals that we say are not in the best interest of this case, because they are professionally flawed and bad. Even though they say in large words that because this will be the huge solution to the issue of migration, and who does not support it, it will be effective even a traitor; and I do not think so. I do not believe that I am in favour of faulty laws, even if I do see that this is an important issue; perhaps one of the most important issues in Hungary today, perhaps even one of the most important issues in Europe today. That is why I say it over and over again: please try to establish a political consensus in this. Please complete your policy that you only consider your own solution to be useful, that you are willing to make your own solution even a matter of consideration, that you completely exclude opposition arguments, whether political or professional, for one reason only, so that you can continue this policy of eye adjuster. This is unacceptable! And, you know, I'm telling you here in Parliament that this is the real mean thing to do in this case. For reasons of party politics and popularity, they do not give us the chance of a national consensus solution. This is what is really irresponsible, and there is only one person who can do something about it, and that is the Hungarian government and the Hungarian governing parties. It's the only company that can do anything for him. Let us sit down, discuss it, or at least let us see the proposals that we make before this House. These are proposals, honourable Secretary of State, which are largely in line with the statements and aspirations of the current Hungarian Foreign Minister. They won't let us discuss them either. Then I'm sorry, but don't refer to opposition parties blocking or boycotting the solution, because that is simply not true. You know, the problem is, in a crisis situation, be it at any time in history and on any subject, someone starts a series of actions by sacrificing legality, principles of law, the criteria of the rule of law, in order to be effective, it is in a very wrong way. I know there are historical situations where the law, the rules of law, is nothing but a set of letters. I don't want to get this far. The law contains solutions for relatively extreme cases, even your Fundamental Law. There are extraordinary legal orders, there are a regulated framework for extraordinary legal orders, a framework where certain civil rights can be suspended. We also said that we are willing - because we see new historical times seeking new legal solutions - to think about amending the basic law and to make our vote available so that the Fundamental Law can be amended, but you refuse to use it. You have one solution for everything, a policy of strength. Nothing else! And how there could be solutions that would ensure efficiency within the framework of the legislation is passed by your ears. They won't even think about it. And I think that society will benefit only if it reaches the final stage when the rules of law, as I put it, will form only one set of letters, because from then on, to put it simply, hell will go away. I don't want that. When you see the initial signs of this, you have to speak against it in Parliament. All I ask, ladies and gentlemen, is a little sanity and insight. That, although public opinion researchers indicate that Fidesz is increasing in popularity, if it stimulates anger on this subject, they should still try to reach a national consensus on a negotiated basis. And I can tell Jobbik that according to the latest polls, your popularity is decreasing despite the fact that they are pursuing this policy, so if you like, it's not even necessarily worth it from a party political point of view. Ours didn't decrease, maybe even grow something. But I think that this should not be the basis of consideration, but that if there is a common issue, a Hungarian and a European matter that requires a common and responsible solution, then you should be able to make a political statement accordingly. Once again, we're open to this. Finally, to return to the concrete bill: honourable Members, what Mr Secretary of State said about crossing the border, and about the fact that this is a crime, not a forbidden border crossing, is true, but we will also see how any of the decision-makers will think that this is a test of legality and how much it is not. For example, such a border lock can be drawn between Romania and Hungary, which means that if this theoretical possibility exists, then there is also the theoretical possibility of declaring a state of emergency in these counties, such as Szabolcs or Békés County. Therefore, there is also the possibility that a new legislative amendment will have to be made. That is why I am saying this, and that is why many of the Members have said that this solution is not a good solution professionally because it does not offer a general proposal for a solution, but we are talking about a legislative amendment adapted to the government's current decision instead of considering what other options are available. I share Mr Secretary of State's opinion, because he is right that it cannot be drawn between Schengen borders - I ask, of course, how much longer Schengen will be, I do not know that because the building is crumbling, everyone can see that - but it can be drawn between Romania and Hungary. And if there is such a place, then again, it is worth thinking about these issues in general. No one is arguing about the right to exclusive jurisdiction, but I simply say that if we do not keep in practice that it is only Csongrád County that will be responsible for this - because we can keep this, and then we will focus money, horse and gun there, and the refugees will have to travel a little or transport them, but if the government chooses to do so - but we will choose the solution that is really obvious that the competent judicial authorities close to the border settlements will have jurisdiction here, then why should we rule out that the Békés or the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Court should be competent in such a case. [[15.30]] I think that this should be given, and then, if there is a case, there is, and if there is no case, there is no case. But we are not amending the criminal procedural law or even the law or laws on jurisdiction according to the government's current decision! I was merely objecting to this, and do not understand that I have expressed critical thoughts regarding exclusive competence as a legal institution. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I am now giving the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group, in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-09-22-128	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, I don't agree with Congressman Bárándy on a lot of things. Especially when you're here telling me how the current polls are doing. Who cares about polling in this situation? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what I said.]] We don't care. Congressman, yes, but you knew exactly that you've just risen, and we've been reduced. That's what I've been telling you. It doesn't matter what the polls measure, it doesn't matter if we lose or win this case. The only thing that matters is how we protect our country. We're out on the battlefield. Now, this looks like you can imagine that we're out on the battlefield, the enemy forces are rushing towards us, and you're talking about sitting down in the grass and starting a five-party consensus and talking about this whole thing. If they run right through us, the country's gone. No. You can't talk about it at a time like this. A person who, in such a case, stands aside, puts his hands together, and sees how the others fight, at least let the people there down, and at least doesn't care whether they go through them or not. Anyone who even cheers for the enemy, like Ferenc Gyurcsány, and stands aside with a flag and encourages the enemy to break through, is clearly a traitor. In a situation like this, we don't care if it's popular or not popular, we lose or we don't lose. We have one thing to do right now, and we think it's to protect our country. The fact that there were democratic elections in Hungary, and in these democratic elections, people decided that Fidesz-KDNP would govern the country, we cannot do anything about it. The Jobbik Hungary Movement has repeatedly said that it would solve this problem differently, we would have other ideas, but we are not in a position. It's not up to us, right now, to decide how to protect our borders. That's Fidesz-KDNP's job, because they govern. In this case, we have no other option but to imagine that this is not the way we would have imagined it, much faster, but regardless, we have one option: to support the government. 'Cause if you don't do anything that you said you were gonna do, you know, consensus and stuff, so if you don't do anything, it's way better than zero what the government's doing to protect the country right now. That's what we think. That's why we support them. Then, when we have fought this battle, if we can get to the state of grace that we have managed to defend Hungary's borders, then if we can get to the state of grace that the dignified European Union is willing to deal with this problem in such a way that this migrant situation is resolved, which is not only about Hungary, but also about the whole European Union and even further problems, such as those countries from which these migrants come. And it should not be dealt with in the way that certain major nations have dealt with it in recent times, that they have created chaos. Or perhaps we should finally sit down with Turkey and ask how the European Union can help with the millions of refugees who are with them at the moment, in their care or the like. So when this situation is resolved, there comes a time when you can say it, and everyone else can say that this government was wrong because it wasn't like this, but this way and this way and this way. Then it's time for the debate, then we can talk about it. You're right, and I agree with you once again, I know we've been through the last five years, we've seen how much we've been able to reach consensus on certain other laws, how much they listen to the opposition's opinion, how much they don't listen to the opposition's opinion. And indeed, many times there were laws where we didn't support it because we don't imagine it because we say it should be done completely differently. But that wasn't a crisis. What you don't understand is that, at the moment, I think there is a crisis. While we have been arguing here for nearly two hours, thousands of people have crossed the border of Hungary. So at this point, we don't have time to argue about it, to sit down next week, and then we'll have to agree that right now, I don't know, that fence is either four and a half feet tall, or it's made of wire or stone, or how many soldiers, how many cops it is. We tell them to get the border patrol back, tell them what we're thinking of these things. And that's either taken by the government or not taken by the government. If he does not accept it, he thinks otherwise, we must also support him in resolving this situation, because unfortunately, there is a situation now. And you don't understand. Right now, we don't have time to think about different solutions. If the government sees the solution this way, then the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support them as a constructive opposition. We would imagine it differently, much faster and in other ways, but it's one thing. Right now, it's their responsibility, they've been elected by the people to govern. Until then, in such a situation, we must try to help the government constructively and with our advice. If they take these advice, they will take it if they do not take it, then there is nothing we can do. But to step aside and let them run us over calmly, this Movement for Jobbik Hungary will never do when there is such an emergency, and when it comes to protecting the country, our borders. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group.
u2015-09-22-130	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bárándy complained that we would not listen to the proposals made by the MSZP. Well, I must say that yesterday we listened to President Tobias, we listened, but we couldn't extract anything from him. But I really must say that I have not met any Members, journalists or anyone who knew what the position of the MSZP was after President Tobias's speech. The MSZP and Mr Barándy say that he is open to the solution, but so far any proposal has been raised, vehemently, strongly rejected by the MSZP. Well, it's just like you said before, it's a big problem. We're running a race, Congressman, over time. Once again, the news is that the Budapest-Salzburg-München railway line was closed by the German authorities until 4 October. There's no train running here. The question is when Germany will announce that it will not be able to receive more refugees. How have the countries of the Union solved the refugee problem so far? Everyone was sent to Germany and thought that Germany would solve it. But what will happen, Congressmen, if Germany says thank you very much, no, and will close its borders? I can only hope that the fence will be ready at the Hungarian-Croatian border by then, and when we cannot go further from here to the West, and the danger will be that how many people will be sent back from there, at least more people from Serbia and Croatia will not be able to come to us in this difficult situation. And the fact is that the only solution that Prime Minister has said is that the countries of the European Union must be given all financial support to remedy the situation in the places of trouble, in Turkey and in refugee camps. Europe will not be able to solve this problem. It's gonna be a real problem, I'm gonna say it again when Germany says it can't take more refugees. Until then, we need to move as fast as possible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-131	Thank you, Congressman. We will continue with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group.
u2015-09-22-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, my honourable fellow Member, that is the problem you have said, Congressman, that you do not know what our proposal for a solution is. They don't know because they don't bother enough to let him come to Parliament. There, during the debate, you can also go to the Parliament's website: the legislative proposals submitted and the proposals for decisions describe specifically what the MSZP's proposal for migration is. Do me the favor of going up to the website and seeing what's going on, and then you'll know. [[15.40]] It would be good if, as a member of the government, he agreed to allow the House to negotiate these proposals. We've tried several times, and probably your non-voted vote has contributed to the House not being able to negotiate this. After all, I think it's a hypocritical thing to say that you're saying there's no such solution here, or you don't know what it is. If you don't know what it is, it's up to you to be unprepared, not to have one or not. The other thing I would like to say to Mr Szilágyi is that he knows that there is always time to think, because I think there is always time to go up against the wall because it is much worse than to sit down and think about it a bit, listening to arguments and arguments and various suggestions for solutions. I understand that a radical party has to represent this vehement style, and I understand this very well, but don't tell me because 10 months ago we know and know this problem, that in 10 months there was no time to think and 10 months... [[György Szilágyi: A year and a half ago.]] A year and a half ago, in particular, there was no time to sit down and negotiate with each other and compare our solutions. Do you know why this didn't happen? The only thing that Fidesz isn't buying is that Fidesz doesn't want to negotiate and negotiate. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-133	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'm gonna ask you, among the authors... [[For signal:]] Yeah. Member Bence Tuzson, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-134	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would just like to respond to a few of the things that have been said here, on the one hand, why only these counties are covered by the current proposal. On the one hand, it is clear that if there is a particular situation and, in fact, it is now that there is a pressure on the country, then, on the other hand, we must respond quickly, but the question on the other hand is that we are protecting the southern border section in this form, but there is a small section of the border that would not be regulated and raised here in the debate. I would like to indicate that this is the Schengen border. So our overall goal is to protect Europe's external borders, that is, the external borders of the European Union, which is typically the Schengen border, and this proposal makes this possible. The question may arise as to why only these courts are designated. It is very important here, however, that preparedness is also available. We now believe that it is possible to ensure that preparedness is fully available in these three courts - or 3 times 2 in 6 courts. The question of whether or not it can be financed and how this whole question can be financed has been raised here. Obviously, if there is an exceptional situation and there is a need to act in this exceptional situation, to build a border closure, to protect such a border with human strength, and even to create a legal border closure, which, of course, has a financial consequence, it must be financed in some form. The country has already spent 30 billion forints - a lot of money - to do so again, but we must not make it a matter of money to protect the country. If this comes up, of course, if there is not enough money and transfers to resolve this issue, then, of course, the budget must also be amended. Although it is not directly related to this legislation, and I would prefer to remain within the framework of the legislation, the question of border guards has been raised here that the border guards should be restored. I would like to report that this is primarily a matter of organisation, and efficiency must be a priority for all such issues of organisation. If a border guard is so effective that those who guard the border work within the framework of a larger organisation, a police force, then such a system also provides the possibility that those who otherwise do not deal with border guards can be more easily grouped there, without giving rise to management problems. So there is reason to put the border guard, the police, in an organisation because of the similarity of the task, and also for the sake of flexibility, because sometimes this requires more force, sometimes it requires much less force. The counties that I have said, so we believe that, at the moment, the challenge that the country is facing is the immigration issue, the crisis caused by mass immigration... - and I would like to emphasise this because these current legislation, at least the administrative part, is only in this case, so that if the procedures are to be carried out at the border in the administrative procedural part and we are talking about criminal proceedings in criminal proceedings which have been carried out specifically in violation of the border closure or are to be carried out as a result. The issue of the Geneva Convention has been raised here. It is indeed a very important question, and it is a pity that András Schiffer is no longer present in this room, but it is an important question that he raised, and I do not quite understand why he referred to or made a proposal to suspend this convention, but indeed, there were references to this convention, and I would like to point out one section of it. Here it was Mr Szilágyi who quoted paragraph 1 of Section 31 in the National Assembly, because the fact that a person has to grant refugee status in a country, or if he crosses the border illegally, he must be granted refugee status, this is related to our current question, because in the present court proceedings, we have legal consequences for someone crossing the border illegally through the border lock, which is indeed very precisely regulated by Article 31 (1) of the Geneva Convention, and I would like to highlight a number of things from it. The important question is that the legislation says that illegal border crossings must be tolerated only if they come to the territory of Hungary directly - and the law uses this word directly - from an area where he is otherwise threatened, so where he is being persecuted. In general, we do not have a border section - of course Ukraine is an exception to this, that problem has not been dealt with yet, and perhaps the Parliament will not be given God to deal with it - but there is no such situation directly, let us say, in the case of Serbia or in the case of Croatia. This rule is contained in the Geneva Convention, so you must be in immediate danger, and indeed there is a duty of cooperation with the refugee or immigrant in this way, because he must apply to the authorities and prove with sufficient care that he is otherwise persecuted in the other state, i.e. the authority or anyone there; his person is at risk. This is why Hungarian legislation is justified, which says that it defines safe third countries or transit states. I note that at the last meeting of Home Affairs Ministers, the European Union's Home Affairs Ministers, they would like to give all countries this status throughout the Balkans. That is how we view these countries. In Serbia, no one is being persecuted, especially those who cross this country, so in this respect they are a transit state and they are not subject to direct persecution. It is possible to argue whether an asylum system is appropriate there, but it follows from the Geneva Convention that he should be directly persecuted in order to tolerate him coming across the green line. So from this point of view, Hungarian legislation is justified, good regulation, creates a kind of pressure for those who want to enter Hungary to respect the laws and enter the territory of the country accordingly. When we have talked about the issues of competence and raised jurisdiction, I think it is right to state the law in such a way that we should specifically empower the counties, the centres of these three counties and the courts to act here, since all general rules of competence would be incomprehensible in this respect. In these cases, Szeged always acts in general, as this is the way the legislation is drafted. There are special cases compared to this when the court in Szeged does not have to deal with these cases. I think that, overall, this legislation is capable of dealing with the situation. Of course, if we are going to talk about the new Code of Criminal Procedure and the new civil order, we can think about a lot of things, but our priority now is to deal with the current situation and to establish a regulation that is suitable for dealing with the situation, not only on a principle basis, but also on a practical side. Therefore, the courts that we appoint - as courts with exclusive jurisdiction - should be able to deal with the situation. [[15.50]] All in all, therefore, our measures, which mean the construction of the triple line of defense, the construction of the physical border seal, the construction of the legal border seal, the creation of the living force, will be complete if these rules are accepted by the Parliament. I therefore thank the Members who, with their support, have indicated that they will vote for this legislation. I ask those who have not been convinced in this debate to reconsider their position. It is in the interests of the country, in the interests of ensuring that it is fully and effectively protected as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-22-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws necessary for the transposition of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA until closure follows. The submission was made in T/6133. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Répássy, representing the Ministry of Justice, to the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-22-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be a bill in which there will be greater agreement. In my opinion, there is no debate in either legal or lay terms that criminal acts break the harmony of a society. Criminal material law generally involves pedalising anti-communal behaviours that either carry out an act against the community or against the individual that destroys the community. In addition, it should not be overlooked in relation to the aspects of individuals who have become victims. In these cases, they may make a claim to the community and its institutionalised organisations that, if they could not protect them, at least assist them subsequently in mitigating the consequences of the crime suffered. Hungary's Fundamental Law is mostly related to victim support, in the second part of Hungary. Article 2 provides that human dignity is inviolable; every person has the right to life and human dignity. Crime causes many kinds of harm. There may be damage to property, physical integrity, good reputation and many other values of man, but most importantly, what is most important after life is human dignity. To help restore this, it is the task of victim support and justice in the wider sense. The assistance and protection of victims is an interdisciplinary area and requires the combined development of various areas. Our country is at the forefront, in fact, a great power in terms of its victim support system in Europe. During the 2011 Hungarian Presidency cycle, the Council resolution of 10 June 2011 on a timetable for strengthening the rights and protection of victims, with the active participation of our country, was adopted. This Roadmap was an important step towards the adoption of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. There is a wide spectrum of victim support services available to victims, combining best systems and practices in other Member States. We are also at the forefront of the victim support line. The number of calls has been rising for four years, since the start of the line. It is worth noting that while the victim support line, which can be called free of charge for 24 hours in Hungary, has been operating since 2011, for example in France, which also has an advanced victim support system, the authorities have created a similar victim support line only at the beginning of this year in connection with terrorist attacks in Paris. In Hungary, the rules for assisting victims are CXXXV of 2005 on aid to victims of crime and public compensation. It's in law. The Victim Assistance Act was created because of the domestic transposition of the provisions of Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA of 15 March 2001 on the status of victims in criminal proceedings and of Directive 2004/80/EC on the compensation of victims of crime by the Council of the European Union. That Framework Decision was replaced in 2012. The main areas of law covered by the Directive are criminal proceedings and victim assistance. It was clear to the professionals that our current rules of procedure and victim assistance legislation are already largely in line with the directive, but it appeared that the Ministry of Justice was expected to carry out additional tasks in connection with the transposition of the directive's provision in the government cycle that began in 2014. While the existing legislation on victim assistance complies with or in some respects exceeds the provisions laid down in the Directive, there are indeed provisions in the Directive which can only be properly transposed by amending the existing legislation. At the same time, the legislative work to be carried out in the context of the transposition of the Directive has provided an excellent opportunity to achieve consistency between the various legal areas concerned and the practical arrangements in sectoral legislation. This is also the case of psychological, emotional assistance required by the directive in addition to the previously mentioned and practical victim support line. It may not be necessary to explain specifically that a person who is the victim of a crime outside his own fault, especially if he is a particularly vulnerable victim, either because of the nature of the crime or because of his own personal circumstances, to what extent he suffers from psychological trauma. It is essential that individuals who come into contact with the victims are accordingly treated with the victims who came to them for help, and that there is a possibility that, in addition to physical injuries, the healing of the psychological wounds they have suffered may also be involved. This doesn't necessarily require a degree in professional psychology, and it doesn't require an adequate level of humanity and tact toward the victims. In addition, it is, of course, important that psychological assistance itself be available to victims. In Hungary, too, this service is already available in the majority of the counties using tender sources, but emotional assistance will also be included in the legislative environment at the level of the standard text by means of legislative work on the transposition of the directive. The Directive aims to promote public support for victims and, in addition to providing assistance, to promote the knowledge of victims in criminal proceedings, and to enhance the role of victims in criminal proceedings. The subject of victim assistance is a very important social message, from the point of view of criminal proceedings, that we extend the fair trial to the victim, also to the victim's procedural rights. At the time of the change of regime, the procedural guarantees to protect the burden were strengthened, under Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. These were eliminated or weakened by the authoritarians of the century. For decades, the gang of blood marshals, snitches, and secret police have made sure that anyone can be falsely accused and convicted. Following such precedents, it has become an understandable priority for the rule of law to enforce the presumption of innocence and to build a system of guarantees around it for all of us. However, our criminal substantive and procedural rights have thus become one-sidedly unsubstantiated. Strictness is a necessary but not sufficient condition for achieving the greater objective of strengthening public confidence in justice. [[16.00]] Strictness or rather consistency with the perpetrators of crime is justified. But it is of little value if it is not accompanied by care for victims and victims. Victim assistance reflects social solidarity, which is at least the same as the need for consistency in criminal law. In addition to professionals in victim support, a wider range of practitioners in criminal proceedings should be addressed. Police, prosecutors, judges, lawyers, they'll probably meet the victim and the victim, but their job is to investigate and prosecute the identity of the perpetrators. We would like to tell them not to forget that criminal proceedings are less visible, but the victim is still the real protagonist. Criminal proceedings are also for them, not just for the sake of abstract justice as a social interest. This shift is particularly important in the light of the fact that the provisions of the Directive aim to ensure more procedural involvement and increased participation of persons who have been victims of crime at all stages of criminal proceedings than in the current criminal proceedings. It is important to pay attention to the next aspect. From a criminal procedural point of view, we need to comply not in terms of terminology, but in terms of content, and the concept of criminal prosecution law is generally consistent with the concept of victim. A radical change in therminology would disrupt the dogmatic system of the law on criminal proceedings and would therefore be counterproductive. Therefore, instead of creating a uniform victim status in criminal proceedings, the law in force is more on the basis of a procedural solution, the victim and victim status consists of the rights granted in each procedural stage and act. In order to transpose the provisions of the Directive, we have reviewed our criminal procedural law, examined who is entitled to the procedural acts and whether these rights comply with the requirements of the Directive. In cases where a victim of a criminal offence has any procedural status, not all the procedural rights required by the Directive have been granted under the provisions in force, and the relevant provisions have been added to ensure that victims have more effective and personalised access to criminal proceedings than previously. In the light of the above, the proposal seeks to transpose the amendments required by the directive into the Hungarian legal system. The deadline for transposition into national law pursuant to Article 27 (1) of the Directive expires on 16 November 2015. However, this deadline does not mean that the relevant amendments must be adopted by this date, but we may even have the opportunity to do so. Under the Directive, Member States are required to communicate to the Commission the transposition of the Directive and the data relating to the legislative work carried out to that end. Since this communication can be made following the establishment and adoption of the bill and the relevant implementing rules, it is appropriate to discuss the proposal as soon as possible so that Hungary can comply with its obligation to communicate within the deadline. Dear House, Finally, allow me to share with you a thought, beyond what I said to justify the bill. In my opinion, in the protection of victims, the legal truth holds social justice and compassion in hand. It helps us move from the abstract to the human. One of the main tasks of justice is to show solidarity with the victims of the crime. I therefore recommend that the bill be taken to the attention of my fellow Members, asking for their support. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-138	Mr President, Dear House, In the public discourse, it often sounds annoyed every day that the perpetrator of the crime now has more rights than his sufferer. As a Member of Parliament practicing as a former lawyer, I feel it is my duty to restore some sense of social justice in this regard. Thus, I support any bill that enhances victims' rights and facilitates the enforcement of victims' claims. The one in front of us, T/6133. This is precisely the purpose of the proposed legislation, which addresses the amendment of certain laws necessary for the transposition of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. As the title shows, in this case we are not only fulfilling our duty of conscience and of law, but we are allowing the amendment to fully comply with the provisions of the Hungarian legislation. As the directive shows, the Union is committed to protecting and establishing minimum standards for victims of crime. Therefore, the Council adopted Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA of 15 March 2001 on the status of victims in criminal proceedings. The Stockholm Programme, adopted at the European Council on 10 and 11 December 2009, called on the Commission and the Member States, within the framework of an open and secure Europe serving and protecting citizens, to examine how to improve legislation and practical support measures to protect victims, paying particular attention to all victims, supporting and recognising them, while addressing victims of terrorism in particular. It is perhaps not a coincidence that the Budapest Roadmap was the continuation of the case at EU level, so the Council stated in its resolution of 10 June 2011 on a roadmap for strengthening the rights and protection of victims, in particular in criminal proceedings, that action should be taken at EU level to strengthen the rights of victims of crime and to increase their support and protection. To this end, and in accordance with that resolution, the purpose of this Directive is to review and complement the principles laid down in Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA and to make significant progress throughout the Union with regard to the level of protection for victims, in particular in the context of criminal proceedings. For what has been said, the legislation before us amends the 2005 CXXXV on aid to victims of crime and public compensation. Act No XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings Act XCIII of 1990 on levies Act CVIII of 1995 on the Criminal Enforcement Organisation Act No XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management Act LXXX of 2003 on Legal Assistance Act CLXXX of 2012 on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. Law 1 and the 2013 CCXL on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement proceedings. Law. CXXXV of 2005 on aid to victims of crime and public compensation I would like to highlight some of the amendments made to the Act. In order to create equal opportunities, the amendment allows victims who are unable to communicate in a traditional manner or for any other reason, in addition to the current language interpretation, to have access to sign language interpreters free of charge. [[16.10]] The amendment also ensures consistency with the description of the forms of contact with the administrative authority and enables contact with the client by e-mail. I think it is very important that the amendment ensures that victims can receive substantial assistance and guidance 24 hours a day through the operation of the 24-hour victim support service. The 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings I would like to point out from among the amendments made to Act No 77, that the range of persons who can exercise victims' rights is extended with the brother and that the person who is dependent on the victim under the law and/or contract, and that the number of persons who are replacing the person who is a substitute for the victim is extended, and in the case of several relatives, the relatives may designate the person who exercises the victim's rights from among them. If there is no agreement, it is possible to decide on the basis of action in the proceedings which of the relatives may exercise the victim's rights. For the record, the Be. the provisions relating to the victim are included in a separate chapter between the general procedures of the victim. These include, for example, that the court, the prosecutor and the investigating authority should take into account, when preparing and implementing procedural acts, that the victim and the defendant do not meet unnecessarily before, during, or after the course of the proceedings. Furthermore, the concept of a victim requiring special treatment is introduced. The circumstances underlying the need for special treatment may be diverse, linked to certain types of crime, to the age of the victim, to his disability or to his/her relationship with the perpetrator. I would like to point out that the 2012 CLXXX on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. It requires an amendment to act that the Directive designates as a general task for the Member States the creation of smooth procedures for the benefit of victims in criminal matters. In addition to the legal institutions already available in the field of international criminal cooperation, the obligation to forward a complaint in the case of procedures which cannot be carried out in the absence of jurisdiction is a new task. Finally, I would like to remind my fellow Members that the directive sets 16 November 2015 as the date for transposition into national law, which is why I am asking for their support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-139	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that the legislative amendment before us really does not require a longer speech as a speaker, not what the Secretary of State may have said in his first words, because it is likely that every faction will agree with and support this. I now grant Parliament's support for our faction. Nevertheless, a few comments are worth making. One is that the MSZP has already supported all legislative proposals on the extension and strengthening of victims' rights, and it should be noted here that it would have been good if the government had done the same, i.e. the opposition proposals, including those from us, which were submitted to Parliament on this subject, would also have supported it, since there were none that we had submitted for victim support and the government would have supported it in the last five years. In the same way, I resent the fact that the government does not support or support it, and, I understand, it does not intend to ratify the Istanbul Convention in the future either, which is also about serious rights of victims, although, of course, it is only about one layer, not usually about victims' rights, it is about victims of domestic violence. I believe that if the Government and you consider it justified to represent victims' rights, you should also ratify this Convention and support ratification. Just as, by the way, it is a bit regrettable that, in order to talk about the reinforcement of the rights of injury in a package, the Hungarian Government had to be obliged to do so by an international agreement. I would like to see this not only come to mind by the government at this time, but also when it comes to drawing up certain legislative proposals in its own competence; I hope that this will be the case in the context of the new Criminal Procedure Law, which will further strengthen and strengthen the rights of victims together. The other thing I would like to put on the table is that it often arises as a kind of contrast that the granting of the rights of the defendant is not contrary to the extension of the rights of the victim, because the granting of the rights of the defendant should in fact guarantee a fair procedure on the part of the State, which has nothing to do with the victim, and I can even say that it is in the interests of the victim to find out that it is in his interest that the perpetrator who actually committed the crime should be punished, and let us say nothing else, and to the extent that he deserves it, to be put simply. It is completely independent of this that victims' rights in criminal proceedings must be guaranteed mutatis mutandis, and if there is a place where these two compete, then the state should really focus on the representation of victims' rights in the first place, because obviously there is one where these two compete with each other, say, in the enforcement of a civil-law claim, where, of course, the priority of victims' rights is what is important. I will also mention here, if I speak on this subject, because there is also room for criticism, that Fidesz has not, in five years, passed legislation where it would otherwise have strengthened the rights of the defendant, not at the expense of the rights of the victim, but at the expense of the state's rights; in contrast, in the opposite direction, the Parliament has adopted a great deal of legislation. I would like to point out two aspects quite briefly from the draft legislation, because basically with what is in it, I absolutely agree, so I do not want to repeat the speakers before me, and I do not want to repeat what is stated in this, but two are worth highlighting. One is that the victim has to be informed of his rights and obligations in a simple and understandable way - it is very right, finally - because of the legal wording that has to be read out and, by the way, read by the authorities about rights and obligations, some of the victims cannot interpret and therefore cannot enforce these rights. I also consider it to be considered, on the basis of this logic, that, if a person does not participate in interviews with the help of a lawyer, and the members of the authority consider this to be appropriate, they should also ensure this obligation in Be., namely, that the defendant is informed of his rights and obligations in a simple and understandable manner, since, say, in the case of an under-educated loaded person, in the same way as in the case of some victims, it is necessary, or at least, that this rule would facilitate the conduct of a fair procedure. [[16.20]] So I consider this to be considered, in addition to supporting the presence of victims here, and I say this to the Secretary of State; I hope that he will forward this observation to the codification committee, that the new Criminal Procedure Act should also be considered for those who are subject to it. On the other hand, on which I would urge the legislator to be cautious, and on the other hand, the legislator, when he encounters such a situation. It is right that the victim and the accused should not meet unnecessarily during the course of the proceedings, but here I would stress the word unnecessarily. In order to find out the material truth - which is not only in the interest of the burdened, but also of the state, of all citizens, because of legal certainty and of the victim - sometimes it is necessary for the victim and the burdened to meet each other, even if this sometimes involves inconveniences for the victim, because the inconvenience is worth the ability to enforce material truth. I am thinking, for example, that in most cases, confronting the victim and the perpetrator in the same room cannot be avoided. It is not by chance that the publicity of the negotiations, not by chance, is able to draw conclusions from the judge, the prosecutor, the lawyer, let us say, not only on the verbal aspects of such a confrontation, but also on the nonverbal aspects, and in many cases - I would also like to emphasise this - this is in the interests of the victim. Because if you just put words and letters together in a confession, it may not conflict with how a victim is afraid of the perpetrator, and vice versa: it does not conflict with, let us say, the cynical manner in which the victim may behave to a defendant. Any case, if we can apply the principle of directness, will bring us closer to finding out the material truth, which is in everyone's interest. Therefore, I say that this victim protection instrument should be used with caution when it is really justified. It may, of course, be justified, for example, in the case of minor victims; it may be justified in cases where any crime related to sexual violence is being dealt with; it may be justified when dealing with a criminal offence related to organised crime, since, where appropriate, the protection of the victim's life is better than, mutatis mutandis, the principle of directness of the trial. I would also appeal to the legislator when it lays down the legislative text, and also to the legislator, when it makes use of these possibilities to ensure that the principle of directness of the trial is not, in general, replaced by the right of the victim to do so, only when it is absolutely justified, since other arguments are added to the other side of the pan. I would therefore like to highlight these two aspects of the legislation, since I have added substantive comments here; the other provisions that it contains in order to protect the victim are fully agreed, so we will support this proposal. And the criticisms or reservations I have said, please bear in mind, not now, but in particular, when drafting the new Criminal Procedure Law. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-09-22-142	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA of 15 March 2001 on the status of victims in criminal proceedings was replaced in 2012 by Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. Pursuant to Article 27 (1) of the Directive, the deadline for transposition into national law expires on 16 November 2015. T/6133. Legislative proposal No.3 provides for national transposition of the Directive within the deadline and therefore amends the following legislation: CXXXV 2005 on assistance for victims of crime and public compensation. Act No XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings Act XLIII of 1990 on the levy. Act CVII of 1995 on the Criminal Enforcement Organisation Act No XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management Act LXXX of 2003 on Legal Assistance Act CLXXX of 2012 on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the Court of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of the European Union, the European Court of the European Union, the European Court of the European Ladies and Gentlemen, After this review, let's look at how the individual laws are amended in detail. CXXXV of 2005 on violations of victims of crime and public compensation The most important amendments to the Act are as follows. The legal assistance service is transferred to the scope of certification of victim status. Under the provisions currently in force, a victim who had already received an aid form would normally not be able to re-use the requested service, with the exception of the provision of a sheltered accommodation, but would have an increased possibility to make use of it in the future. In order to facilitate the enforcement of interests within its service, the separation of the concept of customer sacrifice has become unjustified. In cases where there is still a need for written proof of the initiation of criminal proceedings, it is appropriate to simplify the procedure by allowing all other documents other than the certificate to be admissible, on the basis of which the victim assistance service is able to determine whether the applicant is a victim subject to the law. The amendment therefore lists the documents which may be accepted by the victim assistance service in the case of an application examined in the official proceedings. In order to create equal opportunities, the amendment, in addition to the current language interpreter, allows victims who are unable to communicate in a traditional manner or for any other reason, to have access to sign language interpreters free of charge. The amendment also ensures consistency with the description of forms of contact with the administrative authority and enables contact with the client by e-mail. The contribution of volunteers can greatly enhance the effectiveness of victim support, as well as its spatial and temporal dimensions, thus creating an opportunity for volunteers to be employed. As a result of this amendment, the 24-hour victim support service can be used to ensure that victims can receive substantial assistance and guidance without delay 24 hours a day. Under the provisions of the Directive, the provision of emotional and, where available, emotional assistance to victims of psychological and emotional trauma is also necessary. Emotional assistance as an empathetic treatment of victims has already been part of the domestic system of victim support, but the amendment shows at the legal level the approach and form of service required by the directive. [[16.30]] The deadline for transposition into national law is set at 16 November 2015. T/6133. Legislative proposal No.3 provides for national transposition of the Directive within the deadline and therefore amends the following legislation: CXXXV 2005 on assistance for victims of crime and public compensation. Act No XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings Act XLIII of 1990 on the levy. Act CVII of 1995 on the Criminal Enforcement Organisation Act No XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management Act LXXX of 2003 on Legal Assistance Act CLXXX of 2012 on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the Court of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of the European Union, the European Union, the Court of the European Union, the European Court of the European Union, the European Court of the European Ladies and Gentlemen, After this review, let's look at how the individual laws are amended in detail. CXXXV of 2005 on violations of victims of crime and public compensation The most important amendments to the Act are as follows. The legal assistance service is transferred to the scope of certification of victim status. Under the provisions currently in force, a victim who had already received an aid form would normally not be able to re-use the requested service, with the exception of the provision of a sheltered accommodation, but would have an increased possibility to make use of it in the future. In order to facilitate the enforcement of interests within its service, the separation of the concept of customer sacrifice has become unjustified. In cases where there is still a need for written proof of the initiation of criminal proceedings, it is appropriate to simplify the procedure by allowing all other documents other than the certificate to be admissible, on the basis of which the victim assistance service is able to determine whether the applicant is a victim subject to the law. The amendment therefore lists the documents which may be accepted by the victim assistance service in the case of an application examined in the official proceedings. In order to create equal opportunities, the amendment, in addition to the current language interpreter, allows victims who are unable to communicate in a traditional manner or for any other reason, to have access to sign language interpreters free of charge. The amendment also ensures consistency with the description of forms of contact with the administrative authority and enables contact with the client by e-mail. The contribution of volunteers can greatly enhance the effectiveness of victim support, as well as its spatial and temporal dimensions, thus creating an opportunity for volunteers to be employed. As a result of this amendment, the 24-hour victim support service can be used to ensure that victims can receive substantial assistance and guidance without delay 24 hours a day. Under the provisions of the Directive, the provision of emotional and, where available, emotional assistance to victims of psychological and emotional trauma is also necessary. Emotional assistance as an empathetic treatment of victims has already been part of the domestic system of victim support, but the amendment shows at the legal level the approach and form of service required by the directive. (16.30) In view of the introduction of witness care as a new form of service, the bill ensures that the Minister of Justice regulates the detailed rules for witness care in the form of a regulation. The 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings The outstanding amendments to the Act can be summarised below. The range of victims' rights holders expands with the brother and with the person who is dependent on the law or contract. In the case of a number of relatives, relatives may designate a person exercising the rights of the victim from among them, if there is no agreement, it may be decided on the basis of action in the proceedings which one of them exercises the rights of the victim. The amendment also ensures that family members replacing victims' rights are informed of the forced action or of the release or escape from the victim's criminal activity in the course of the execution or termination of the sanction involving deprivation of liberty. In view of the fact that the amendment of the Law on Legal Assistance contained in the proposal may lead to the use of a patron's representation in criminal proceedings before the hearing, it is therefore necessary to extend the obligation to provide information in this regard to the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office. The amendment introduces as a general rule the requirement for simple and understandable communication for all persons involved in criminal proceedings. The Be. the provisions relating to the victim are included in a separate chapter, including, for example, that the court, the prosecutor's office and the investigating authority should take into account, in the preparation and implementation of procedural acts, that the victim and the accused person do not meet unnecessarily before, during, or after the course of the proceedings, and that the concept of the victim requiring special treatment is introduced. The amendment will allow a copy not only of the complaint, but also of the document justifying the filing of the complaint. In the course of an investigation of the freedom of sex and of a crime against sexual morality or of a crime against a relative, a victim who requires special treatment as a witness in an interview, if the victim so requests and does not prejudice the interests of the proceedings, the victim may be questioned only by a person of the same sex. The amendment requires that the interview of a witness under the age of 14 in the course of the investigation be recorded with an image or sound recorder or other equipment. On the one hand, the amendment complements possible cases of interrogation through a closed-circuit telecommunications network by interrogating a victim requiring special treatment as a witness and on the other hand, by allowing the victim or his representative requiring special treatment to propose that the defendant be removed from the courtroom during the interrogation of a special-treatment victim. The 2012 CLXXX on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. It requires an amendment to act that the Directive designates as a general task for the Member States the creation of smooth administration in criminal matters in the interests of victims. In addition to the legal institutions already available in the field of international criminal cooperation, the obligation to forward a complaint in the case of procedures which cannot be carried out in the absence of jurisdiction appears as a new task. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports the bill. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-143	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-144	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us is indeed eligible and must be supported. I will address, on the one hand, the points that we think are particularly good for them to be included in Hungarian laws, and, unfortunately, I will also have to raise some of the problems that, although we have repeatedly initiated, the government has failed to resolve and concern victim rights. I can't bypass that, since we have such a large format proposal ahead of us. But first, let us look at the points that are eligible for and to be highlighted in particular from the amendment of the law before us. I would like to start with the criticism as an opposition representative, which, at first, struck my eye that we are talking about the transposition of a directive of 25 October 2012 and that the prison law was adopted in 2013. Therefore, there may be a reason why it is being transposed now, and the deadline may be now - Mr Secretary of State is obviously more informed than I am - but I have often said that if the EU directives, in this case, are to be adopted, it would be good to transpose them as soon as possible or even in the new laws. I do not know whether the Ministry's operation is coded to comply with the final deadline - unfortunately we have seen this before - it would be better to switch to a system that, when a new EU law is published, which otherwise requires an obligation to improve the Hungarian legislation, it should be dealt with as soon as possible to be incorporated into the criminal law; in this case, in addition, in the criminal law, by adopting certain laws afterwards. But it was just a rookie idea. To the second stage, which is the possibility of requesting information from the victim: not only the victim, but also the person exercising the victim's rights, can ask that if a person is convicted of a crime, and he is the victim of it, if the perpetrator is put in prison or forced medical treatment - which I will address - be subject to emergency measures, if the perpetrator is released or escapes, inform the victim or the person exercising the victim's rights. This has existed in Hungarian criminal law only for certain crimes, and not so long ago, I have to add, so it has also been introduced into the criminal law recently. We already told you that this might need to be expanded. In many cases, it is comforting for the victim to know that the perpetrator is still in prison, or he can prepare for his release in a sense that, unfortunately, I must say, he is more attentive and should live his life without being in the prison walls. Of course, it would be good if you didn't have to worry about it, but at least the information - because it doesn't cost anything - is created by the proposal. As I said, this also applies to pre-defensive debt, which means that other, therefore, OCDs, temporary OCDs, or even juvenile education - we can call it education, we can talk about the detention of juveniles - in this case it is also particularly good that it is included in the law not only in prisons but also in correctional institutions. With regard to the avoidance of unnecessary encounters between the victim and the burdened, although I can agree with Gergely Bárándy's arguments in some respects, in most cases it is not that the perpetrator is the party whose interests should be protected in this form, in many cases the victim is the one who experienced trauma. So I can agree with him that the basic case must be that if there is any other way to prove a crime, it should be avoided. I am also pleased that the Law on Criminal Procedure already requires the courts, prosecutors and investigating authorities to do so, and that the person under the age of 14 should be regarded as a victim requiring special treatment. It is also possible to fully agree on this in itself. We also agree with the provision that a supportive adult person may participate in the prosecution or victim's hearing. Of course, there are cases where, in view of the interests of the investigation, this can be ruled out, but in many cases it is an opportunity that I think in many cases the victims will take advantage of. In many cases, the accuser or the victim needs someone to support him in taking certain steps to bring to the authorities his knowledge or the grievances he has received. [[16.40]] In many cases, we have seen that this is justified. Article 21 In the case of victims requiring special treatment, this automatically and in some cases in the case of those under the age of 14, makes the closed trial possible in order to protect the interests of the witness even in certain cases. This is also absolutely eligible. Of course, the request for information will also be transferred to the prison law. Here, by the way, at the time of the bv. We drew attention to the fact that, in any case, the victim should be informed, in any case, because if this is embezzled, and he may not know that he has the right to do so, he may not be able to live with it. So these proposals are absolutely good, they are eligible, but I have to go back to what I have to say to Mr Secretary of State, because we have often said between the walls of this house and at committee meetings what is missing. Jobbik had a number of suggestions that victims' rights should be interpreted in a more extensive way. This is not just about the rights that the victim is entitled to during the proceedings, or what kind of patronage assistance he receives, what legal advice or patronage counsel the state can provide, but it is also about, let's say, the compensation that he is awarded in connection with the crime he committed, whether it can be recovered from the perpetrators or whether the state's criminal costs always prevent these claims. It's a real problem like the Btk. We also presented it when it was adopted, and then we had a separate Btk.-modifying proposal for this. Unfortunately, this has been voted off in the Judicial Committee. We brought it here, too, to the Parliament, unfortunately we have achieved a similar result - the result is to be understood in a quotation sign - and we tabled an amendment to the Finance Act at the time to ensure an appropriate envelope, unfortunately, even then hopelessly and without a chance. What's this about? What we're talking about here is - I'm telling you the rule in force - the release of criminal costs at the moment is for the unsub to ask. So the unsub may request that he be relieved of criminal costs, of criminal costs to be paid to the State on various grounds, but he cannot ask the victim to do the same, on the grounds that if the State takes away the seized property that the unsub has seized from him, there will be nothing left for him, even if he has been finally awarded compensation. This is an immeasurably wrongful situation. We believe that at least the Minister, let's say - so we didn't ask too much - should at least have the right to assess these requests, and the Minister should have the right to decide to release the criminal costs in order to make the victim affordable, to satisfy the claim. Then we asked them to change the order of satisfaction. So if the state doesn't want to let go of criminal costs, that's a solution, then at least wait your turn and don't beat the victim. In addition, we have also proposed that this right could be exercised here on the basis of a request from a minister, so it would not be automatic, but there are cases where serious tens of millions of real estates and motor vehicles are seized from the perpetrators, but there is no possibility that the victims or their survivors can get their rights first; the state does not wait its turn, takes everything away, and there is nothing left for the victims. Unfortunately, the government has not been touched by the fact that even more of these cases in the media - to highlight the bigger cases - can be said in the Cozma and Szögi cases, but there are still a thousand other cases that could be said that despite the final award of compensation, the perpetrators were, let's say, in the Cozma case I can say for sure, their considerable wealth, the state sweeps the money, and there is nothing left to do with the many cases of misery left behind, and even the family supporter, or the family who lost their supportive child in the Cozma case, there is nothing left for them. They have a judgment they can't do anything about, they can't collect. So the state doesn't even do that in 20 to 30 years, so that at least the seized goods can satisfy the demand, and then somehow the state, who knows how, but slowly, even with the prison work that was promised, and with the bans on prison work, even if these perpetrators came out of prison at some point, would slowly deduct these amounts; they wouldn't be willing to do that either. This is all the more painful, because there is something to be done about the situation, and when it is said that it is money, this is why we have proposed an amendment in the budget to create a basis for this. The size of the amount, this must be decided; who will judge these needs must decide, but that something must happen, because this situation is completely unfair, it is certain. To further enhance the mention of events of the past, in the case of Gypsy murders, which is also as reprehensible as the other cases, there was a separate government decree, so they paid the victims, which would be fine, only in the other cases, whether in the two other cases, in the Cozma and Szögi cases, this was not done. And it's not good to leave a system to government orders or government decisions, and it can also be supported in a serious crime that, say, reaches the government's threshold and who can fight to get something for it. This is also victim support, it is also to help victims or their survivors, because if we build only procedural guarantees and only... - and, of course, it is also very good that procedural protection and warranty are in place, but after that, if the perpetrator goes to prison, and let's say a family stays without a family head, and they don't get a legitimate claim, then that doesn't apply. In addition, I do not, and I think this is a closing point, because in the case of the State Violence Monopoly, the government always points out that this is an important thing, and it is in the state. But if he's in the state, the state has a dog's duty to protect his citizens. If the state doesn't do this and lets the citizens defend themselves - because we're not following the American model, where citizens can defend themselves and arm themselves - the state says that I will protect you, my dear citizen, the violence monopoly is mine, but it doesn't do that, it fails, it can't protect its citizens, then it has at least the responsibility to help those who are victims of a serious crime or to help their surviving families. The help may also be that the unsubs' assets, the seized property, are waiting for their number, and the criminal costs are not first paid, leaving nothing to the victims, acting. This procedure is an incorrect, disgusting thing on the part of the state. I know it's difficult to start the state machine, but we'd like to see the threshold finally reached, and any suggestions, but I'd like to be presented in the near future. As long as this does not happen, we will put forward these proposals. We hope we don't have to wait years for something to happen. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak within the framework of our agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy. [[16.50]]
u2015-09-22-146	Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to thank my fellow Members briefly for supporting the bill. I believe that all the aspects that seek to strengthen the greater protection of victims in criminal proceedings, the role of victims and victims, will be taken into account in the new law on criminal proceedings, and I hope that we will be able to establish these rules together. In any case, thank you for your support, and I would like to ask you to support the bill that is now before us in the vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-09-22-147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the T/6244 on the jurisdiction of certain courts in civil and criminal matters discussed on the previous item on the agenda. In line with the adopted urgent proposal, the proposal for amendments was open until the general debate was concluded; therefore, for reasons of urgency on our previous agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows from the criminal record system that the Courts of the Member States of the European Union record judgments against Hungarian citizens and the 2009 XLVII on the registration of criminal and police biometric data. General discussion of the law and, in the context of it, of the bill amending other laws until closure. The submission was made in T/6134. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-09-22-148	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you again for the floor. T/6134, to be negotiated by the Parliament. Legislative bill No.3 aims to change the current rules for the collection, recording, handling and use of biometric data in two directions. In addition, the bill would change the current regulation of criminal records due to the need for amendments for harmonisation of EU legislation and for enforcement experience. The main objective of the bill is to amend the DNA profile register as part of the criminal record system, accompanied by a minor adjustment of the rules on the registration of fingerprints. In the new sampling order, the sample or its biometric data would be linked to the person from the point of view of registration rather than to the relevant criminal proceedings. On this basis, the draft law includes a sampling protocol to ensure that if a person is already registered with a DNA profile in accordance with the new rules, no repeated sampling is required in any subsequent criminal proceedings that may be conducted. For reasons of data security and in order to ensure the reliability of subsequent identification, the bill allows for no subsequent sampling in cases where there are at least two DNA profiles from the data subject in the register. In the case of fingerprints and palmprints, the new procedure would ensure that all such biometric data collected from a person can be retained in the criminal record system as long as the criminal records of the person concerned are otherwise included in the register. This step may increase the effectiveness of the later-needed identification based on daktiloscopic data. Following the amendment made by the bill, the biometric identification codes in the criminal record system become the data content of the register of identity data and photographs, resulting in much more efficient and transparent data processing. In addition, the establishment of a more efficient, cost-saving and lower working burden register in the field of data management can be achieved by rationalising the sampling process, data processing and data request for biometric data. Another comprehensive objective of the bill is to modernise the identification of data subjects during the reception of prisoners or other prisoners in prison. In the area of identification of persons going to the prison, the prison organisation shall have inefficient means of identification. Despite the significant IT developments in recent years and the fully renewed prison law, the possibility of abducting wages cannot be excluded, thus the fact that someone who has actually been convicted or who has been subjected to an emergency measure will not be able to fulfil the penalty imposed or the imposition of an emergency measure restricting personal freedom. This fact can negatively affect effective enforcement. At present, the necessary measures should be requested from the competent police body in the case of persons admitted with a dubious identity, which represents a significant additional effort both in the prison organisation and in the police department. This extra work could be almost completely eliminated by the implementation of the bill. The bill would fundamentally reformulate the procedure for the identification of prisoners during reception in the prisons. One of the aims of the amendment is to avoid unnecessary fingerprinting in the identification process. Under the provisions of the Law on Criminal Records, the prison organisation should only carry out sampling as a substitute for a deficiency, if, therefore, the samples concerned were not to be taken during the criminal proceedings. On this basis, sampling would not be necessary for more than 4,000 persons at present. By excluding unnecessary sampling, the Institute of Criminal Experts and Research can also be exempted from unnecessary expert work. Accordingly, the bill provides that for each sentenced person admitted, identification by fingerprint should be carried out with a simple and rapid procedure. To this end, prison institutions need to put into place electronic equipment, i.e. fingerprint reading devices, to allow for the comparison of the fingerprints of the data subject with those of the Dacticoscopy data processed in the records of criminal and police biometric data kept by the expert institute in a short period of time by electronic means. If the Institute of Experts informs the Institute of Prison Enforcement that the comparison was not effective, the bill provides an additional possibility for the enforcement of the sentence in order to clarify the identity of the person concerned by asking for data from different state records enabling identification. Furthermore, if the proposed amendments were adopted, the number and validity of the document presented by the person to be accepted would be checked. In addition, it would be possible to obtain a photograph of the person in the documents on which the reception is based or the documents presented, which could be compared with the photographs in the personal records, thus almost completely excluding the so-called payroll. The aim of the two comprehensive amendments is therefore to make efficient use of budgetary resources and to reduce the workload of the investigating authority, the prosecutor's office, the prison organisation and the biometric data analysis and record-keeping body. By means of the bill, the law enforcement agencies estimate that from the second year after the introduction, 20-30 million forints should be spent every year less than the current one on the sampling processes related to the determination of the DNA profile. It is estimated that in the long term a reduction of up to HUF 40-50 million per year would be possible. Based on the estimated calculations, the changes would reduce the amount of samples analysed and registered annually by the Institute of Experts carrying out registration tasks by 4-6 percent, i.e. 4 thousand fingerprints per year and 2-3 thousand DNA profiles, up to 4-5 thousand later. [[17.00]] Taking into account the burden of expert institutions and the resulting countermeasures, this would result in a significant reduction in the burden of business. There is a significant, albeit budget-neutral, impact on reducing administrative burdens for determining bodies. This effect would apply both to the bodies taking samples and to the bodies analysing or registering biometric samples if the bill was adopted. The exclusion of a significant amount of unnecessary sampling indicated above at regulatory level would not only reduce the work related to sampling but also reduce the administrative burden associated with the internal workflow related to sampling. As a specific figure, the total duration of the sampling procedure is 20-25 minutes for a prisoner and the transmission of samples is an additional significant cost of personnel and property. The removal of fingerprints and palmprints during receptions in 2013 required some 1667 hours of actual work, which does not include working time with related additional tasks. Since the amendments would reduce the time to process the loaded samples for registration purposes, experts could have more time to deal with ongoing other cases, in particular in criminal proceedings, with faster expert support for investigative authorities and the prosecution. This would make a significant contribution to improving the effectiveness of law enforcement by making better use of expertise. The current procedure causes considerable workload, and the resulting mass of unprocessed samples also endangers the timeliness and effectiveness of criminal proceedings in many cases. The new logic of the management of the criminal record system in the management of the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services would allow the registration system to operate in a more efficient, cost-effective and labour-saving manner, in full compliance with the principles of public credibility and data-saving. The structure of the criminal record system as reflected in the bill would result in significantly more efficient and transparent data processing and would reduce to the extent necessary the access of each determining body to the data processed in the criminal record system. A simpler, more flexible and reliable communication between the criminal record body and the expert institute would be possible compared to the current one. On the basis of the new logic of the criminal record system, the criminal record body could also examine the sampling obligation and provide the expert institute with clear up-to-date information on the registration status of the person concerned. The data management logic and the expanded data content of the criminal record system would also be a change to the reality and up-to-date of the data stored in the records in the management of the expert institute, which would also ensure a higher level of domestic responsibilities in the field of international criminal data exchange, which would be fully compliant with the requirements, thereby improving domestic participation in international criminal cooperation. As I mentioned in my introduction, the bill contains amendments for harmonisation purposes, in addition to the above comprehensive objectives. On the one hand, amendments to the criminal record system for the purposes of harmonisation ensure better compliance with the Council Framework Decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from criminal records between Member States. Article 6 (2) and (3) of the Framework Decision, the full and smooth transposition of these paragraphs, have not been achieved, which is what the bill seeks to replace. The new rules provide for more flexible applications for criminal record data for EU citizens in EU Member States other than their Member State of nationality. Another amendment to the bill, which was required by compliance with EU legislation, relates to Article 10 (3) of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating child sexual abuse, sexual exploitation and child pornography. Article 10 of the Directive requires Member States to make it possible for the employer to know whether the person to be employed has not been convicted of or is not subject to prohibition from carrying out activities involving direct and regular contacts with minors in order to avoid repeated offences committed to harm children. Article 10 (3) of the Directive has an interpretation on the basis of which such exchange of information is to be carried out through the European Criminal Record Information System. According to the Hungarian legislation in force, data requests from the competent authority of a Member State through the European Criminal Records Information System can only be transferred to criminal records for the purpose of criminal proceedings. For purposes other than criminal proceedings, such as information provided to the employer under the Directive, data may be transmitted only at the written request of the person concerned and not only to the person concerned, i.e. through the European Criminal Record Information System. When examining the legislative provisions of the Member States in order to comply with the directive on the subject, the European Commission found the consistency between Article 10 (3) of the Directive and the Hungarian legislative provisions problematic, and it was therefore justified to amend the Law on Criminal Records to allow the transmission of data through the European Criminal Record Information System only in respect of applications received for purposes other than criminal proceedings. In the event of such a request, only previous convictions for offences covered by the Directive may be provided to the requesting Member State. Therefore, following the adoption of the amendment under the bill, if the criminal record body receives an application for an employer's request for information relating to the pursuit of a professional or organised voluntary activity involving direct and regular contacts with children, the Hungarian authority will respond electronically, i.e. through the European criminal record information system. In addition to systemic changes, the bill also includes a number of amendments to the Law on Criminal Records that are necessary due to the experience of law enforcement. Thus, the problem relating to enforcement data concerning the sanction imposed by the foreign court in the event of recognition of the validity of the foreign judgment can be mentioned. These data are the data content of the domestic criminal record system, but in many cases they are not sent to the criminal record body for various reasons. This, in turn, represents a lack of data content and makes it difficult to properly calculate the registration time. As a result, where appropriate, the issue of an official certificate to the data subject causes significant problems and in some cases becomes impossible. The purpose of the bill is to address these shortcomings, which will allow the public authorities to decide more quickly on the issue of the authority's moral certificate for the citizens concerned, avoiding difficulties in applying the law. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the brief presentation of the main amendments, I hope that it has become apparent to you that the amendment of the law will result in much more efficient and transparent data management, thereby achieving a more efficient, cost-effective and lower-duty register, which will help significantly improve the effectiveness of law enforcement in a smaller area and streamline the work of law enforcement agencies. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-22-149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. Mr László Salacz, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, will be the first to speak. You have the floor.
u2015-09-22-150	Mr President, Dear House, As we know, and it is now an accepted fact for everyone, there is a social interest in the competent bodies knowing about the criminal record of a person, but also in ensuring that criminal convictions do not constitute a lifetime stigmatisation for the person. [[17.10]] Guaranteeing this dual objective is reflected in criminal record-keeping activities. Criminal records therefore serve both crime prevention, law enforcement and criminal rehabilitation purposes. The main principles of law in relation to criminal records are, if you like, fundamental rights, which should prevail, human rights to the protection of personal data and information self-determination. In all cases, special attention must be paid to these by the legislator. At the same time, I would like to point out that today there are extensive cross-border criminal networks in the world, including in the territory of the European Union. To mention the current example, smugglers are setting a goal of crossing the Schengen borders when committing a crime. Of course, within the European Community, it is also important that action taken in one Member State should not remain without consequences in the other. In the light of what has been said, a European criminal record information system has been established, a single electronic network, a system of exchange of information for the electronic exchange of information on each Member State's criminal records, thus protecting the citizens of the Union. It is based on the criminal records databases of each Member State and is not responsible for the implementation of a central database. The one in front of us, T/6134. Proposal for a law on the criminal record system, the registration of judgments against Hungarian citizens by the courts of the Member States of the European Union, and the registration of criminal and police biometric data in CLVII of 2009. It is entitled to amend law and, in the context of it, to amend other laws and provides for amendments within the framework of the framework outlined. I consider efficiency to be the main merit and purpose of the bill, whether it be cost-effectiveness, time or the effectiveness of identification. As an example of cost-effectiveness, I would like to point out that the proposal includes the development of a sampling protocol to ensure that, if a person is already registered with a DNA profile complying with the new rules, no repeated sampling is required in any subsequent criminal proceedings that may be conducted. It is important that this is only possible if there are already two DNA profiles in the register. I consider this provision to be extremely important from a given security point of view. Thanks to this amendment, for fingerprints and palmprints, the new procedure would ensure that all biometric data collected from a person can be retained in the criminal record system for as long as the criminal data of the person concerned are otherwise recorded in the register. This may increase the effectiveness of the later-needed identification based on daktiloscopic data. From the rumours of the court-martials, you can hear the institution of the wage robbery mentioned by the Secretary of State when he is serving his sentence for someone else. The bill before us would make this phenomenon impossible in practice. To this end, the legislation provides for the identification of fingerprints by means of fingerprint identification, a solution that ensures that fingerprints are compared easily and quickly. To this end, the prison institutions need to put into place a system of electronic equipment to allow the data subject's fingerprints to be compared with those processed in the records of criminal and police biometric data managed by the Criminal Experts and Research Institute in a short period of time by electronic means. Finally, I would like to point out that, following the amendment, the identification codes for biometric data become the data content of the register of identity data and photographs, which results in much more efficient and transparent data processing. In addition, the development of a more efficient, cost-effective and lower-capacity register in the field of data management can be achieved by streamlining the sampling process, data processing and data request. For these reasons, I ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-151	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-152	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that if the MSZP receives appropriate answers to certain questions in Parliament's debate, at any stage, or if the Government accepts an amending proposal, then it can contribute, with its vote, to making criminal records more up-to-date and more effective by adopting this legislative proposal. I say this because, of course, every party, every political force and every man in Hungary has an interest in improving the effectiveness of law enforcement. Of course, we are now saying that, in addition to a modern criminal record, we also need impartial and rapid law enforcement work, one without the other, we are sure that it will not be effective. What I have put forward, I would really like to express the questions and concerns, because the virtues of the bill, which Mr. Secretary of State raised in the expozee and the lead speaker of Fidesz, I can agree with a good part of them. One is that this law is a rare exception because it had a preliminary impact assessment, unlike most others, and here the impact assessments show - we can read it in several places, there are even nominally showing how much the deficit would be, but the point is - that there is no adequate financial resources available in the penal system, the BSZKI or the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services, which is necessary for these new provisions to be applied, and not only in the letter of the law. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, and that is actually the most important question: how do you intend to replace it? How do you intend to deliver this to these organisations? Here, the administrative office, BSZKI and BVOP set out 37 million forints, which is a deficit for them, and, if I have read it correctly, the bv indicated 120 million forints as a further resource requirement. I would like to ask whether, if the Parliament adopts this law, these grants will be granted to the three organisations. And we cannot go beyond the fact that one of the reasons for the amendment is to ease certain tasks belonging to the BSZKI, i.e. less work for the employees there. [[17.20]] Obviously, the law does this primarily because in many criminal proceedings, otherwise in frequent criminal proceedings, what practitioners, prosecutors, judges know is that it is a general problem that cases sometimes take months and years because of the BSZKI procedure. This could also, of course, justify reducing the burden of the BSZKI, and what's more, I say that if the budget is not on very strong legs - and I think that today, in Hungary, whatever the government says, the budget is not on strong ground - it is possible to use tricks, if you like, and I take this in a good way, that I am not providing budgetary resources, say, to an organisation, but to withdraw from its responsibilities and speed up the operation. But in the case of BSZKI, this is very interesting, because one year, I think, when the BSZKI's responsibility arose in connection with one of the important crimes, it marked no less than HUF 240 million, so that if they were to increase his support, they would be ready to carry out their activities by day. What I just said, I also maintain: sometimes because of budget cuts, let's say we try to optimize and divert tasks if there is no money. But, Mr. Secretary of State, we are talking 240 million forints! This is in the Hungarian budget, I do not know if it can be measured in thousands at all. It's such a small amount, obviously not for a private person, but based on budget figures that we should give to the BSKI, and we shouldn't do any tricks. I understand when we say that we are talking about the budget of the prisons, and there we are trying to find alternative solutions, because we are talking about a large budget to the extent that we are talking about numbers that cause difficulties for the Hungarian state register; the same is true, let us say, for the modernization of the police. But HUF 240 million to the BSZKI, I think it's small money from the budget, and if it could really speed up criminal proceedings, then there wouldn't be any tricks here. We had an amending proposal for this, perhaps not one, for sure in 2013, but, if I remember correctly, also in 2014, which would have increased the budget support of BSKI. This is my second question to the Secretary of State as to why it is necessary to trick in this regard, why it is not possible to provide this otherwise not very large amount to the BSZKI. If I wanted to be a very populist, I would say that if Andy Vajna offered his weekly income to the BSZKI, this problem would be solved. So that's too bad, I'll tell you one more time, trick. I would ask, Mr Secretary of State, that, on the one hand, the grant of 240 million will appear at the BSZKI, which will have to be amended on the budget, because a law has just come in that a new ministry will stand up, but if we look at the debate of the previous laws, it will also be the problem of immigration that will trigger the amendment of the budget. This HUF 240 million could be introduced there, just as, by the way, if this law was passed and clearly government agencies were not going to exaggerate their needs, it would also be worth providing HUF 37 plus HUF 120 million. Overall, this does not exceed half a billion forints or even stays well below it. I think that if you see such a reform as necessary, it is worth introducing it if you can also create a budget leg. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we are not talking about any tricks here, but indeed about a change that reduces administrative burdens and facilitates a more efficient procedure, so if we can address these problems and issues, then our group can even support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-22-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-22-154	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XLVII of 2009 on the criminal record system, the registration of judgments against Hungarian citizens by the courts of the Member States of the European Union and the registration of criminal and police biometric data. Act T/6134 amending other laws in that context. In addition to conceptual changes, the bill amends the Law on Criminal Records, other laws, in particular the LXVI of 2003 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. Act XII of 1998 on travel abroad Act LXXXIV of the year. Act No I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, Act No II of 2007 on the entry and residence of third-country nationals Act XLVII of 2009 on the registration of judgments given by the courts of the Member States of the European Union against Hungarian citizens and on the registration of criminal and police biometric data. The Commission considers that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the fact that Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, expressed everything in his detailed exposé about the bill, I do not wish to repeat what he said, so I would like to say very briefly the following. In Bnytv, there is a need to reduce the sampling obligation and accordingly establish a new procedural regime for oral mucous membranes and DNA profiles. In the case of finger and palm prints, the bill would ensure a new procedural order so that all such biometric data taken from a person can be retained in the criminal record system for as long as the criminal records of the person concerned are otherwise recorded in the register. The bill significantly alters the procedure for the identification of prisoners in prison institutions during reception. It also serves to comply with Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from criminal records between Member States and Directive 2011/93/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on combating child sexual abuse, sexual exploitation and child pornography and replacing Council Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports T/6134. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-22-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-22-156	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I will be brief, since I believe that the proposal is being followed up by very few people either on the Internet or in the room. Although it is an important proposal, I do not think that I would like to make such large-scale contributions as they have been before me. I would like to draw attention to a few things very briefly. We rarely say this, but looking at the opinion of the profession, it seems that we have now come up with a forward-looking, cost-saving and rationalising proposal. [[17 .30]] We could also say that at certain points we do not understand why the system has not worked this way so far, because it is logical that if, say, a fingerprint or DNA is to be taken from the same perpetrator in a new procedure, the data already stored and properly stored, in the register, can be used to the fullest extent. So it was without any logic that it had to be taken off under the law again under costly procedures. I think it was also a very old fantasy to respond to pay-raisers in Bv institutions. I hope that this system will actually effectively solve wage imprisonment here. I am not thinking, as Jobbik suggested, that the state would be better off paying money to certain offenders, as is otherwise known in international law, even abroad, but to the illegal criminal category where someone pays for someone else to go to prison instead and do his time. I never really understood how in the modern system, DNA and fingerprint systems, this could happen in the 21st century. Even in the century, but better late than never. We are pleased that the government is making some progress in this, and these amendments are being tabled. We also hope, although what my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said was shocking to me, that it would be only a few hundred million forints, if I understood correctly, for which DNA collection and processing would be up-to-date. This amount would certainly be worth having the government turn it on, since, to say the least, they spend money for purposes that are far less important than this. I must also say that I am not going to point out what the good proposals are in the amendment to the law before us, perhaps I should mention one thing: that from the register of other EU Member States, the applicant may request data for himself, which he is entitled to know, to know what is being recorded about him. It's a special section, and I don't want to quote the rest. But the point is that, in relation to DNA, and in conclusion, I have to say that here serious crimes have revealed the extent to which the system is malfunctioning, or I could say that, on the one hand, adequate financial resources are not available - it seems surprisingly to mean a few hundred million forints - and on the other hand, how the system is being abused. And while we are talking about a debate in Parliament, I also have to say that as long as serious offenders could get out of pre-trial detention, and at the time, the government initiated a legislative amendment in order to extend the pre-trial detention, because, in the case of perpetrators of serious crimes, DNA tests have been carried out so long that suspects have been out of custody - the maximum three years that could be held there, and this is due to the withdrawal of DNA tests in the press news - well, in cases where DNA was taken and dozens of detectives were involved, which was simply not justified. It is important to mention the Prime Minister's daughter's wedding, where, for a cell phone theft, a dozen DNAs or the latest cases were removed, not so long ago, when the perpetrators were apprehended by dozens of detectives in connection with breaking and entering the residence of the national police commissioner, and especially in connection with a burglary that didn't cause any financial damage. Which, of course, is very good, but it points out that if you can carry out law enforcement so effectively through the involvement of DNA - of course, with Secretary of State Kontra, we had a serious debate here in the immediate question section that he thinks everyone should be treated, because I asked him that we do not see that if, say, a widow in Borsod, we will have a DNA sample and dozens of detectives on it. He obviously, although I think in absolute opposition to public opinion, said that this was not the case, and that everyone should have the same investigation and the same procedure. Well, let's all decide for ourselves if that's true. But the point is, if, on the other hand, a D.N.A. can make law enforcement so effective, then let's create the circumstances and create a financial background for making it more accessible to ordinary mortal citizens, even in the event of a break-in, not just for the Prime Minister's daughter or for the national police commissioner. This, however, relates to this proposal in that it is indeed necessary to create working conditions and, in particular, financial conditions here. I would not regret even a few billion dollars, because if, in the current practice, a few hundred million forints to catch up with BSZKI itself, then this means that if we say ten times the amount of this - I say one number - we give them not only in the most serious cases, but also in the less serious cases, they can use DNA sampling. The huge social advantage of this is that crime groups could be caught, for example, in Budapest, but also in the countryside, for example, in the largest number of burglaries. 'Cause we don't want to think that someone along the way is committing these crimes, they're organized groups. Technically, if they are liquidated, they are more difficult to regenerate, although they are always regenerated, but compared to the fact that now, if they are not breaking into the main potentates, state leaders or the national police commissioner himself, they do not actually have to be afraid of being caught, and they do not have to be afraid that, let's say, they may be caught by DNA sampling. The point is, therefore, that the system still needs to be improved in order to create Hungarian public security at a number of points. We will propose, although the budget for next year has already been adopted, but it will continue to be a priority to create, expand and create public security for people, not just for a privileged circle of public security and DNA sampling. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-22-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one indicated his intention to speak in writing. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on this item. Since I don't see a candidate, the general debate... [[Dr. Répássy Robert reporting.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Répássy Róbert, I'm asking if you have a closing point or... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: No, to comment.]] No. Then I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2015-09-22-158	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not wish to take up too much of your time, but I felt from Mr Barándy's comment that it was a question of ensuring costs for an important information, and I thought that before we closed the debate, I would like to clarify the situation. Therefore, the organisations covered by the law are all subject to the supervision or control of the Ministry of Interior, and this is the submission of the Ministry of Justice. Obviously, this does not mean that the Ministry of Interior does not know about this proposal, and even in the course of the administrative consultation, it was partly proactive in submitting the bill and partly agreed with the bill. I therefore assume that since, as you said, Mr President, an appropriate impact assessment or a mapping of costs was carried out during the preparation of the legislation, and the Ministry of Interior agrees with this motion, I assume that this amount will be guaranteed in the budget of the Ministry of Interior. It's true that it's not a big sum, but remember that it's just one of the reasons for the bill. Another reason: obviously, individuals or perpetrators or potential offenders included in the register need not repeat personal data or biometric data, re-production of them, this is also an important aspect. So there are two aspects here, indeed partly due to a reduction in costs or a reduction in the burden of labour, and partly due to better management of personal data and better protection of personal data. I ask you to take both aspects into account. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-09-22-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Secretary of State whether, as rapporteur, he wishes to conclude beyond what has been said. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. [[17.40]]
u2015-09-22-160	Mr President, I would just like to say that, in addition to what I said earlier in my speech, I thank you for your support, and please consider supporting the bill. I would also ask you to support the bill before us in Parliament with your votes. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-22-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to have speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group, has applied for a post-scheduled speech. - Liszt Ferenc Airport with growing noise problems. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-22-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to a problem that would require cooperation beyond the parties, since I am obviously not everywhere in this House about the problems of a number of affected municipalities where there are pro-government city leaders: Vecsés, Üllő, Gyömrő, and in the affected districts, in Kőbány, but also in other affected districts, Zugló, the mayor is obviously not a pro-government party, but there are several settlements and settlements involved where there is obviously a need to address the problem that can be experienced in the Ferihegy area. This year the Second World War ended 70 years ago, when there was virtually a completely bombed, smashed airport left around Ferihegy, and five years later, by 1950, it was rebuilt, and ten years later, it became one of Europe's most modern airports by 1960. During the previous operation in Ferihegy, there were obviously always problems with noise loads during the smooth use of the air corridor and the smaller amount of use, but in fact, in 2007 the situation developed that, with the deployment of all-new corridors, the noise load increased significantly in some districts of Budapest due to the take-off and landing machines. Especially in the area of Sitló, Vecsésen and Kőbánya, Kispest, this has been the case, but obviously it also has an effect in Zugló, although it may be slightly less than in Kőbánya, where people are increasingly complaining about the constant noise burden that is making their quality of life worse. Obviously, if you do not deal with the subject in depth, it may seem that this is merely an inconvenience due to some sound effects, but this is not the case; this noise burden is associated with demonstrable health problems, and the increased presence of noise load, which is constantly occurring in the case of a living person, can bring a number of cardiovascular diseases to the fore; not to mention the quality of life that must come from the right to rest and a healthy environment provided by the Fundamental Law. Obviously, the fundamental right to a healthy environment is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law and the Constitution through appropriate legislation, such as the environmental law of Hungary, which sets noise limits, which require the granting of an environmental permit for such an establishment. The last time was between 2006 and 2011 the airport had an environmental permit to operate without any problems, even though there were concerns about the issue of legal expenditure here, but then they tried relatively unlawfully with a five-year extension; yes, but in the case of those living there, this was a real problem, and therefore they had recourse to the permit. It follows that since 2011, Ferihegy Airport, Liszt Ferenc Airport, has been operating practically without an environmental authority authorisation. The last authorisation was issued in 14 by the Central Danube Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection, against which the Municipality of Kőbánya had recourse, and accordingly the National Authority for Environment and Nature Protection reviewed and destroyed the operating permit. The result of these processes is that due to increasing passenger traffic, this noise load is not only increasing, but is now uncontrolled.In 2014, 9.2 million passengers took off and landed at the airport, and operators intend to increase this traffic to 15 million over the next period. Obviously, with these take-off options, Budapest and many other areas also benefit, as tourism itself brings a lot of revenue, but these revenues should also be partly used to reduce these harms. Either the operator or the Metropolitan Municipality bearing the benefits, but someone should pay for the coordination tasks that would allow the air corridors to be used more evenly, so that the noise effect is not concentrated in one place, and obviously there are technological solutions for reducing the noise effect to which resources should be invested. I ask the House and the Ministry of Industry to examine the possibility of this problem, because the people concerned are increasingly at a disadvantage, and the municipalities alone are not able to solve it. This is what I ask of this House and the Ministry. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-09-22-163	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of a different type of migration. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-22-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The migration that I am going to talk about does not concern the majority of people at all, so politics does not react violently either, even though the phenomenon has already demonstrated that it has a serious impact not only on our future but also on our present. This phenomenon can be called the settlement of invasive alien species, also known as invading species. The spread of alien species can take place naturally and with the help of humans. The reason for the natural spread is that the population of all species is trying to expand its distribution area. A change in the state of the environment is often an opportunity for spread. As a result of climate change, warm or dry areas come from the south, while others go north. Even such migration is carried out indirectly with the help of man, but most of the time, man deliberately installs different species in the hope of economic gain. In other cases, certain species are not intended to spread during human activities. Trade and tourism are the most common drivers of this, when new species appear as by-products of freight and transport. The majority of immigrant introduced species do not become invasive, i.e. they do not crowd out native species. Currently, around 12,000 alien species are registered in Europe, 10-15 percent of which are invasive species. This percentage is also sufficient to be one of the main threats to biodiversity and related ecosystem services. Invasive alien species pose different threats to biodiversity and related ecosystem services. For example, overgrown and bored American jewel turtles eat food from swamp turtles. Asian harlekinkats reproduce faster and more resistant than domestic ladybugs. In Austria, for example, they fight with the golden rod, in Belgium with the ox frogs, in Croatia with the jewel turtles, in Helsinki with the rabbits, in Berlin and Spain with the raccoons, in Italy with the eastern grey squirrel, and in London with the friendly parrots. In addition, invasive alien species may have significant adverse effects on human health and the economy. They amount to more than EUR 12 billion per year in Europe and are constantly increasing. The European Union to address the problem 1143/2014. Regulation No 12, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. One of the current measures of the Regulation is to draw up and update the list of the most dangerous species in Europe. The list should be drawn up by the Commission within one year of its entry into force and a provisional list has already been published together with a draft of the possible action plan. The documents are expected to be finalised in October-November. [[17.50]] If the proposals of the Action Plan were to be implemented, there would be a complete ban on the import, placing on the market, selling, cultivation and exploitation of the most serious invasive alien species. In order to enforce the ban, EU countries would have to carry out border controls and put in place a monitoring system for the detection of prohibited species. In addition, measures should be taken to filter out species that enter Europe by accident or accident. Under the proposal, Member States which detect the presence of prohibited species of animals or plants in the EU should immediately take action to prevent the further spread of that species. The proposed legislation would also require EU countries to put in place measures to control the spread of already widespread or widespread prohibited species. However, to the surprise of the experts on this subject, the list lacks most of the species imported from America. I wonder why they didn't get on the list. One of the obvious reasons is that there is not enough resources. However, there are also political reasons for reluctance, a well-known example of which is that our country does not want the white acacia to be added to the list of persecuted ones. Lessons learned from the case: if migration of alien species had been prevented, we would not be able to talk about irresistible costs today. When a problem is rooted, it is too late to develop a common policy. Politics always find an excuse to interfere with a professional issue in its interests. If anyone sees a hearing between the two migrations, it's pure coincidence, out of the mind of the speaker. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-22-165	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting on Monday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 5:52 p.m.]] László Földi s. k. Mirkóczki Ádám s. k. notary
