u2015-04-28-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 24th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notary Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and notary Attila Gelencsér will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. As usual, there will be speeches before the agenda on Tuesday morning. Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, called for the opportunity to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In recent weeks, events have accelerated both in public and higher education. In mid-April, to the deep shock of everyone, meaning parents, students, educators, was shocked to learn that the 15th century was an event. district Neptune Elementary School and VIII. I'd also like to close the district Raoul Wallenberg Medical Secondary School. In both cases, it is a question of having an eye on the school building, which is why students and teachers' bodies should be ejected. But it also changes that they want to take away training schools from teachers' schools. The KLIK would take them in, too. There is also a change in the system of vocational training, and the system of dead ends has been further whacked. However, the biggest waves were triggered by the plan for higher education transformations, in particular: the intention to further limit professional cessations and academic autonomy. Although these are very important issues, it is worth considering new changes in their wider context. The LMP believes that not only higher education, but also the debate on higher education, could be redirected. To this end, we have formulated 10 points, which we have also sent to the actors in higher education. Our proposals are based on the fact that without quality knowledge, there is no quality life, no solidarity society and no economic development. Higher education is the way of social ascension, the investment of the future. To this end, we recommend considering the following 10 points.1. We want full publicity on the transformation of higher education, transparent and transparent consultations. Don't make a decision about college students without college students. 2. We continue to push for the termination of tuition. We believe what Viktor Orbán thought in 1998: the first graduation should be free for everyone. The tuition is unfair, cutting off students in difficult situations from further education. 3. The sources of higher education need to be significantly expanded. 5-6 forints out of every 100 HUF budget should be spent on higher education. This plus 100-150 billion would have plenty of funding in the budget - let's just think about unnecessary luxury expenditure.4. We don't want less, we want more graduates. Higher education must be opened wide. Our long-term goal is to have four out of ten graduates in Hungary.5. It is necessary to maintain and develop higher education in rural areas. The situation of rural colleges needs to be strengthened. Szolnok, Dunaújváros, Baja cannot remain without higher education. Rural institutions are the spiritual centres and engines of the local economy, society, culture, and have a key role to play in preventing rural depopulation. There have been steps in this, but their long-term future is not guaranteed. 6. Language requirements need to be considered. In these circumstances, access to higher education should not be subject to a language examination. The entire Hungarian language education needs to be considered, and a reform of language education is needed before a higher education entrance exam can be introduced. Now only children of the most fortunate and wealthy families can get a language exam until they are 18. In higher education, more foreign language training and more foreign language courses are needed. 7. We still do not see a plan for the wage development of higher education workers. There hasn't been wage development in higher education in eight years. This issue has not been dealt with in government cycles. Today, a talented young person does not stay at the university to study or research, as he can earn multiples of what he would receive as a teaching assistant in the marketplace. The teaching and research career must be made competitive, and teachers in higher education must be valued, especially young people. 8. Innovative training should be supported. Higher education also needs to raise creativity. In particular, social science training is needed because not only economic but also social innovation is equally important. Young people who want to enter into a business should be helped in a priority9. Increase international cooperation and increase mobility. This should also involve smaller rural institutions. 10. The final point should be a partnership in the management of universities. Instead of the Red Economic Councils and Orange Consistors, we call for institutional leadership based on the involvement of social partners. Dear House, The 10 points of the LMP are clear and serve to strengthen and expand higher education. Our ideas point towards a knowledge-based society and economy. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We believe that discussions on higher education should be conducted around these issues. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-04-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear House, We have not heard a new one very much in the Member's speech, because he has touched on many things very briefly. I don't know if five minutes is enough to try to answer everything. Which means two schools, high school, Neptune Street School. You know as well as I do, Congressman, that the operator of this school is not the State, nor the KLIK, but only its maintainer, because the building is owned by the district municipality. The district municipality initiated a preliminary consultation before a decision-making process, as it says that according to some data, 42 percent of the school's capacity is exploited, and according to one calculation, only one third and 58 percent or 66 percent of the building's capacity is empty. A consultation was therefore initiated, which was also held on the spot. We will see what kind of solution this will lead to, but it is important that there is no situation that is more detrimental to the students who are there, especially those who have snitches, than the situation they are in right now. This will be discussed. At the Wallenberg school, I also see that Congressman has made a record of last week and has failed to report on the discussions that have taken place since then, as you know very well that there has been a preliminary discussion here too, because a higher education institution will be placed in the building of a secondary education institution, so a vocational secondary school has been able to occupy its place for years. At the same time, it is important that the studies of the 1200 students present there continue, and the level of training is not impaired. Minister Zoltán Balog visited there in person last week and assured the teachers and parents that the Wallenberg school could stay together, keep its name, retain its functions and continue its operations at another site in Budapest. With regard to practitioners, too, the Member, to quote a classic, did not express all the elements of reality, as you know very well that Annex 4 to the Government Decree on National Higher Education sets out the conditions for becoming a public education institution. There are 11 conditions (a) to (k) here, and according to the higher education strategy, the State Secretary for Higher Education has reviewed which training schools meet these 11 conditions. [[9.10]] 11 conditions exist and according to the higher education strategy, the State Secretary for Higher Education has reviewed which training schools meet these 11 conditions.(9.10) I quote one or two conditions. Half of the teachers meet the leading pedagogical criteria. At least 150 students will take part in practical training. On average, there are at least five students in teacher training per year for a senior teacher. There are three parallel classes. At least 70 percent of public knowledge subjects and non-curricular school activities have practical training tasks. 25 percent of the school time frame is spent on training school tasks. So there are quite a number of conditions in the legislation, in the government decree, which have been examined and consulted by the State Secretary. In nine cases, there was doubt as to whether these conditions were met or not, this will be discussed with the school representatives, and when the conciliation process is completed, the decision on how these schools should continue their activities will be taken. As regards the 10 points on higher education, what you have said: honourable Member, you have missed transparency. Here in Parliament a few months ago, even the LMP was certain that it had not taken a negative position on the higher education strategy. I do not remember the exact use of words, but it is not about what term was used in substance to say positive neutrality in Parliament, but I want to refer to the fact that you were perfectly familiar with this strategy of higher education, because it was preceded by a broad consultation, and everyone could read it on the Internet, and was consulted with the Hungarian Rector's Conference, the HÖOK, the round table of higher education and everyone, and this strategy was adopted by consensus. We also presented it internationally, and yesterday I quoted the opinion of the director of the OECD, Mr Andreas Schleicher, on a longer basis. Now I would like to quote just two half-phrases: some elements of the strategy take into account the best practices presented by the OECD, and therefore the OECD considers that the strategy is timely and extremely important for preserving the global competitiveness of Hungarian higher education. So the content of the strategy was recognised internationally, and it was thought that this was extremely important for developing Hungarian higher education. You mentioned the expansion of resources, Congressman. You know that this year's budget, if I remember correctly, will provide 12 billion, but in any case it will certainly provide more resources, and with PPP substitutions it will be able to really reduce the burden on higher education, which is also its intention and, in part, what it has already done and will continue to do in the coming days. In the area of language requirements, we are already trying to base it in high school so that by 2020, everyone who wishes to continue studying can have a secondary language exam. Which means the number of graduates: we want 100 percent of those who enroll in universities to be graduates. It would be the greatest step forward if you could get all the college graduates you signed up for. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What is the real purpose of the government with the City Park? Mr Csaba Tóth, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The City Park was built 200 years ago as the world's first planned public park, a planned public park that is public, accessible to everyone. To date, this nearly 100-acre area is not only a favourite park for the metropolitan people, but also for the visitors, where tens of thousands of people go to sports every day, to relax, to walk or even to walk a dog. Two hundred years ago our ancestors created the Liget for the benefit of the public. A year and a half ago, the then mayor of the district presented a bill involving the City Park, which Parliament adopted with record speed in a few days. When this bill came before Parliament, we had not yet seen what the real goal was. Since then, it has become clear that they intend to build the planned museum district in the Liget. State Secretary L. Simon László said earlier that the capital of Hungary's cultural industry will be the City Park. Last time, however, he said to the Hungarian Orange that I would prefer to see some planned museums in vacant properties or in a revitalized area as part of a brownfield project than in the greens of Városliget. In the Weekly Reply, from the Readable Secretary of State:. The new Museum of Ethnography must also be built, but it may not have to be built in the Liget. And I don't like the two cubes of the Museum of Photography and the Museum of Architecture, he said, and these institutions could easily be placed in existing buildings. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The latest development is that Gábor Zoboki, who was invited to the design competition of the new National Gallery in the Castle, would build the museum in Szent György tér and not in the City Park, which, according to L. Simon László, is not a bad idea. The creative team has just realized that nearly two müpa Budapest buildings need to be designed in the middle of the park with a huge parking lot, which would obviously put a strain on the City Park. From the beginning, professional and civil opponents of the Liget Budapest project have been trying to argue for the preservation of the public park. Serious plans have also been made to exploit existing buildings, to invest in brownfields and to protect green surfaces. Obviously, those who say that just in order for the Prime Minister to move up to the Castle, it is not worth destroying the City Park and moving almost all the important public collections. However, it would be nice to finally see clearly what the government's intention and position on the City Park is after all, whether it will continue to insist on making a pointless big investment. However, if your position has changed in the meantime, it would be good to know when the priority investment status will be lifted. It would be nice to reassure the families who go there, want to relax, that they don't build the area, and that the Liget remains for the people. Last week, Budapest XIV. The district, the representative body of Zugló's municipality has adopted a decision in which it stated that it is committed to maintaining the function of the Városliget's original public park, and therefore supports any government intention to renew the park, agrees with the restructuring of transport, the renovation of existing museums, but does not agree with the construction of new buildings. Therefore, he asked the Government of Hungary to carry out the planned construction project in a location that does not involve reducing the area of the green surface and changing the landscape nature of the two hundred-year-old City Park. Minister László Baán was also present at the municipal council meeting, who in the debate on the agenda long convinced Members about the usefulness of the Liget project. In addition to saying several times that the green surface will increase, he did not say anything about how public safety will improve, how the transport situation will improve or how the Liget will be renewed and used. The people of Zugló and the Liget rest and relax are rightly concerned that the park will cease to exist and will cause irreparable damage and irreplaceable damage to construction in the state of the current green surface. The destruction of the green surface of Városliget, the constructions have not even started yet, but the Városliget Zrt., which carried out the project. He has already spent nearly one billion forints of taxpayers' money. For example, an office is rented for HUF 3.5 million per month, 238 million for international design contests, 31 million for planning programmes, 20 million for advice and 20 million for new publications to mention only larger items. With that kind of money, the state of City Park could have been significantly improved. Dear Parliament, It is our shared responsibility and duty to preserve the Liget as a priority public park for posterity, to continue to serve the purpose for which our predecessors created it from public relations two hundred years ago. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think everyone's lucky to have a development somewhere, especially if it makes a part of the city more livable if it makes that part of the city more emblematic. I don't think it's any different for City Park. It is in our interest that the area that has more beautiful parts and less beautiful parts should be a place of general development, and that both green areas and other areas should be much higher in one of the important, frequented areas of Budapest, since Városliget has been a very important part of Budapest since the millennium. What Mr President said in one part of his speech is a question of green surfaces. I think you've heard it many times, but for some reason you're not trying to understand or accept that the proportion of green spaces will increase according to the current plans, because according to the current state, 60 percent of the park is green, and if this development plan is implemented, which is scheduled, the proportion of green areas in the City Park will increase by tens of thousands of square meters; from 60 percent to 65 percent in the City Park. But not only the green surface is growing, but also the ruiny buildings are replaced by new, renewable buildings. [[9.20]] I think you can also improve everyone's well-being, improve public safety, and the visitor, whether he is from Zugló, Budapest or from anywhere else in the world, will be pleased, we can talk about the Petőfi Halls or Hungexpo building here. That is why we thought that one of the cornerstones of the Városliget Budapest project should be to make sure that there are more green surfaces than there are at the moment. Thus, the lungs of Budapest, the air of Budapest, will win by implementing this project. The Zuglós, who want more green spaces, will also win if this new development is created. And not only because the proportion of green surfaces is increasing, but because if you're talking about public safety, the running circle will be lit up, so it's much safer to run at night for those who want to run there. There will also be a new playground, a sports field, a relaxing garden in the Liget, which is most beneficial for the people in the area. I don't think it's right for these advantages to be rejected by a local body of representatives. All of these should be supported, as these running circles are likely to be run by the residents, the Zuglós will also be the most common in the new playgrounds, sports fields and rest gardens. As regards not the part of the park, but the building of the Liget Budapest project, you can see that on 14 February the Museum of Fine Arts closed, the renovation of it began, and the works started at Petőfi Csarns, so the work that could establish a more prestigious City Park started. In addition, numerous other museums in Budapest have been raised in recent decades, to which the Liget Budapest project could be the solution. You can see every day when you come to the Parliament building that the Museum of Ethnography is in a building built for the Mansion. So you're not in a museum building, you're in a courthouse. Obviously, it is not ideal for the museum to be in a courthouse, nor is it ideal for the court to move into the courthouse. We'd think a museum would sit in a museum building and a courthouse in a courthouse. I think that's a pretty simple logical conclusion. Liget Budapest can also be a servant of this. The building of the Hungarian National Gallery was also originally not made for exhibition space. After the Second World War, it was redesigned in the 1960s and 1970s, but it is still not ideal for exhibition and community space, it also lacks premises for professional work. It would also be a more ideal place for the National Gallery, even here, in the Liget, in a new building, selected on the basis of an international design contest. Photography is obviously of paramount importance to Hungary, because due to language difficulties, we do not belong to the Slavic or Germanic language family, so we must appear in the fine arts. Photography is currently located in a museum in Kecskemét, a few hundred square meters. I think that a Hungarian photography museum would fill us with pride, and we could also show it to foreigners. Hungarian Museum of Architecture, House of Music - I don't think I have to give international examples. Let me just point out one thing at the end of time. You know, as you know, that there was an economic impact assessment by the government that the project would be repaid to taxpayers within ten years. The current 4 million visitors will be increased to 5.9 million in the first year after completion, in the fourth year thereafter, to 6.2 million visitors to the Liget, and to 300 thousand tourists a year in Budapest. I think that if the project is implemented, we can all be proud of this new, impressive part of Budapest. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-28-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Let's be proud of Eger. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, from the Fidesz Group, with the title of the continuation of development, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-9	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the word and the opportunity. I asked for the floor in front of the agenda because, in the centre of my constituency, in Eger, a major agreement of national importance has been signed recently, on which I wish to inform this House. Dear Parliament, In September 2014, we, together with Mayor László Habis of Eger, contacted Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in his office to ask for the government's support for Eger's development opportunities. We had a slogan, a slogan, "Let's be proud of Eger." The development continues with us. Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 April 2015, Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, visited the city of Eger. The visit was made in the framework of the Modern Cities programme, the second to Sopron in the country. The position of the current government is that the key to the development of rural Hungary is in rural cities. They can be the engines of development, without strong rural cities, the villages will not be strong, which is also very important. It is therefore necessary to establish strong rural force centres. Let us look at what we have agreed with the Government of Hungary to promote the above-mentioned goal. First of all, it is a matter of symbolism to solve the direct connection of the city of Eger to the national circulation, namely to connect Eger to the M3 motorway. It is an old goal, many have worked for it, many Members, many governments, but it seems that the implementation will only be reality now. This trip is important to us. On the one hand, the current route is dangerous, and once the new two-track access road is completed, transport will be safe. On the other hand, the road will be faster, we can connect to the motorway in less time, on the other hand we are also sure that more businesses will be able to come to us, companies operating in Eger can have more orders, new jobs can be created. Dear Parliament, Another important point of the agreement is the case of the Eger Castle. It belongs to the Eger Castle, which was officially a national memorial in December last year, as a result of your wise decision. National memorial site, which is the country's most visited rural museum, and which, thanks to the wise decision of the cultural government, will become the prominent national centre of the night of museums. As a result of this decision, the palace of István Dobó will be restored and the reconstruction of the largest medieval cathedral in Hungary will be completed. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's face it, there is a historical nature of justice to renovate the castle that once saved Europe and the citizens of Europe from the Turkish flood with EU money. Dear Parliament, The third point of the agreement is related to sport development. If it's Eger and sport, then I say swimming and water polo. After all, our club has more than a hundred years of history, we have significant domestic and international success in the sport sector, and we have good infrastructure funds. According to the agreement, there will also be a ten-way swimming pool, sports hostel, medical and administrative buildings, parking lots. Hungary is organizing the World Water Championship, so it is justified to have a modern national swimming and water polo center in the country. Dear Parliament, Perhaps our most important task is to create jobs. That is why we welcome the Hungarian State Railways MÁV to give Eger a 9-hectare area within the framework of the agreement, so that it can become an industrial park. The meeting discussed the use of the building of the Eger barracks in the form of a possible service centre. We also consider it important for Eger to be a part of digital development, as it is the only way to become a modern city today. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up: access road, renovation of the castle, national swimming and water polo center, industrial park, service centre, digital city. Together, this means nearly 50 billion in development opportunities for the city of Eger. Thank you very much. The agreement signed in Eger came before the Government of Hungary last week. So, as Lech Wałęsa would say, we won, and we have a document on this. This agreement not only belongs to the Eger, but also affects the settlements in the area, the people living there, and even the entire Heves County. In this way, the modern city can really be created by preserving the old traditional values. Let's be proud of Eger. Progress continues with us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State László Tasó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-11	[[Without loudspeaker]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament,
u2015-04-28-12	Wait a minute. I don't know if the card's in there. We'll wait, no problem, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor now, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-28-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, With newcomers, the card may not be placed in time, but I will try to respond immediately to the comment we have just heard. I was struck by the Prime Minister's clear statement that the development of rural areas could be achieved by the development of rural metropolises. Accordingly, the program was launched, with the first visit to Sopron by the Prime Minister and his escort, then to Eger, then to Zalaegerszeg, Miskolc, and today to Pécs. [[Dr. István Józsa: He carries the money.]] We hope that soon they will be able to arrive in Debrecen and all cities with county rights, and to conclude agreements, as we have just heard. [[9.30]] After all, there is an agreement in Eger that puts both the city and its region in a position to improve development, and in order to create facilities, investments that can fundamentally determine the coming decades. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] I very much hope that every point that was incorporated into the agreement at that time will be implemented when and when we want it to be. With the construction of the M3 motorway, the distance between Budapest and Eger has already been shortened, but obviously, as the government's decision is about this, we need to connect all county towns and county seats directly to the expressway network. This has already been done in August 2014, and the decision has been made. We have taken steps in this regard. [[Dr. István Józsa: Clear!]] It seems, and all signs point to the fact that, in order for this investment to be carried out, we will have to make use of a bill that will be negotiated tomorrow by the Parliament, which will help speed up the process of preparation so that the investment programme can be implemented. In March 2018, the fast-track link will reach the city of Eger from M3 and I think that we can take a big step and take action to make them more open to investors' intentions and naturally facilitate the conditions of transport. In point 3, the agreement included the commitment of the Government to build a national water polo and swimming centre in Eger on the outstanding results of the Eger water polo industry for years. To this end, the Minister for Development, Dr. Miklós Seszták and Zoltán Balog will discuss how to prepare the programme that they can submit to the government by 15 September. This is also a close deadline, but all the indications are that we can keep this commitment. It will be the National Sports Centre operated by the Ministry of Development that will contact the city's leadership and discuss, review our resources and start working. The city of Eger can see the operation of the water polo department and the training of supplies for a long time. Those who love water polo sports, not only in Eger, but in the region, I think they can go to a place of quality that will be worth visiting. It serves the population's need for movement, the sport-loving audience. I think there will be a great deal of fun for the circle who lives in that area. The government will use EU funds to prioritise and develop the Eger fortress and its surroundings, as we believe that this emblematic building, this fantastic castle, together with the souls of heroes, deserves to be treated separately by the government and to help develop it separately. From the MÁV, the area of 9 hectares, which is necessary for the establishment of the industrial park, will clearly be transferred, so it will be possible to open up Eger more to entrepreneurs. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] In the integrated transport development programme, it is clear that there is a source and there will also be the possibility that the old desire to combine modes of transport will be achieved by the intermodal centre. This is also under development and its final plan. With regard to road 251 - as I said - we need an acceleration, and I very much hope that this acceleration package, as we call it, will be adopted. Thirteen laws and thirty regulations will allow all investments that are of national importance to be carried out by the deadline. This is also important because it is hoped that both the parliamentary parties and the Members will support it, because there may not be anyone in this Chamber who will interfere with Eger's development. Because those who will not support the realisation of these investments will put the people who live there at a disadvantage. I also hope that this agreement, which the Hungarian Government has concluded with Eger, will be a clear way of fulfilling the role of the economic and social engine city, will indeed be the force and driving force of the region, as it has done in the past. We'll try to get everything ready in time. I wish the Egers good luck. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-28-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, I have to sign in for a speech, and then I can give the floor. So, unfortunately, there is no possibility. Hungary has an obligation to protect Hungarians from the Group of Jobbik with the title "Transnational Hungarians" from the Group of Jobbik, Mr Ádám Mirkóczki, the notary of the Parliament applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak before the agenda today because there has been an unprecedented and unprecedented event in Ukraine in recent days. An unprecedentedly serious and unprecedented case has not occurred since the South Slavic War that armed forces have openly threatened Transcarpathian Hungarians or Hungarians beyond the borders with physical destruction or extermination. In front of my fellow Members who are members of the National Security Committee, they cannot be unknown or even heard enough about both Karpatska Szics and the formations or formations called Azov and Právy Sector, which are linked by one thing: both sufficiently chauvinistic and particularly cruel, all of them are irregular organisations, and all of them operate in a self-righteous manner. All of this is done and can be done by the Kiev government turning a blind eye to their activities, where it supports them, and sometimes simply overlooks the brutality that these forces do in Eastern Ukraine or elsewhere in Ukraine. The fact that such an organization, which I stress once again for the sake of the weight of the subject, should not be taken as an empty threat, but very seriously, since it is an organisation with a name, a face, and a well-armed entity, should threaten Hungarians with open liquidation and physical destruction, is unprecedented. The Hungarian Government, the Hungarian State Department and the Hungarian Parliament are responsible for what we should do. I would very much ask everyone here to put aside the things that the Western press is writing, but to get firsthand experience of the processes that take place in Eastern Ukraine. And how seriously you need to take an organization like that? Two days ago, the various video dividers saw how the armed organization Azov crucified a prisoner and set it on fire. I think that if such events take place in Ukraine, there is no mere expectation and expectation that the Ukrainian Government will defend its own citizens with responsibility and honor, whether it belongs to the Russian minority, Ukrainian, Ruthenian, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian or any other national minority. What we have to do, I think, is quite clear, although I am sad to see that I have not seen or heard before, and I have not read about the fact that the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian Foreign Office would have asked the Ukrainian Ambassador to take over, or we would have initiated any intergovernmental dialogue on how the Kiev Government intends to protect its own citizens and its own minorities. And I would like to stress that this is not about who has political views, who belongs to what religious denomination or which national minority is involved. This is about the fact that an armed, brutal chauvinist organization threatened Hungarians with open liquidation, namely the Hungarians of Transcarpathia. And who will take responsibility if even a Ukrainian citizen living in Transcarpathia, but a person of Hungarian origin is affected by any atrocities, if Ukrainian and Hungarian citizens living in Transcarpathia are affected by such atrocities, or what if only a Hungarian citizen carrying, or trying to help, a shipment of aid from Hungary is affected by such brutality that we can see from these units? I think that the Hungarian government is now facing a very serious task, in which I can assure you, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, that we are giving all the support we can in this regard, but here we have come to a point since the South Slavic War - and, looking at the political and military events in Ukraine, when minorities are being played out as a kind of red ulti by different secret services or other armed forces against each other - when there is a very big responsibility and a very big task. And it can't be swept off by putting it on a political basis, and we're trying to make a bagatell question out of it. I am very confident that the Hungarian Government will act with due wisdom, caution, but as decisively as possible against any event, especially in Ukraine, which may affect Hungarians in a negative sense. The Jobbik will be a partner in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Here you go, Minister. [[9.40]]
u2015-04-28-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, allow me to thank you for raising this subject here at the plenary session of the Parliament, because we have the opportunity to discuss a very serious issue. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, we agree that it is not exaggerating to say that the Hungarian community living in the Carpathian Basin today is in the most difficult situation and challenges in the most saturated situation, given the war that is taking place in Ukraine, and given that the war period is always the best time to whip up extremist or nationalistic ideas and groups. Honourable Congressman, I would like to tell you in general that the position of the Hungarian Government is that only a peaceful solution is acceptable to us in Ukraine, and the prerequisite of which is that all parties to the Minsk agreements - I stress, all parties - should keep themselves completely. I also agree with you that it is necessary to give a careful, precise wording, calm and correct opinion here, because, where appropriate, any over-exposed wording would be an internal political advantage in this situation, but it would certainly be a disadvantage for the Hungarians living there. Because one thing is clear: until now, the Hungarian national community has not been subjected to a physical insult, nationalistic physical attack in Transcarpathia, and it is in our interest to keep it that way in the future. Therefore, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán met President Porosenko, or when I have been negotiating with the Foreign Minister of Ukraine on the last three occasions, we have always, on each occasion, drawn attention to the fact that the Hungarian national community is the most important link between Ukraine and Hungary, and the Government of Hungary, and even the Hungarian Parliament, pays special attention to the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. Both the President of Ukraine and the Foreign Minister of Ukraine have said on each occasion that guaranteeing and respecting the rights and security of the Hungarian national community is an important aspect of Ukraine's governance. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to tell you that there were, of course, discussions between us regarding the enlistings. We agreed with Foreign Minister Klimkin that the proportion of Hungarians to be enlisted cannot go above the proportion of Hungarians in Ukraine, and I can tell you, honourable Member, that so far the officials of the Ukrainian government have held to this. I would also like to tell you, honourable Member, that we are in daily contact with KMKZSZ, the organisation representing the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, and we are also in daily contact with the President of KMKZSZ, and we shape our positions and our policy on the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, as KMKSZ expects us to do, because I think that they, the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, know what they need most of all, and it is right for the government to ask their views. I would also like to tell you, honourable Member, that the government has decided on more financial aid to support the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. In January, I signed the 200 million HUF contract with the leaders of the Transcarpathian County Council to support the operation of Transcarpathian institutions: on the basis of the additional needs that have been channeled during my negotiations, the government decided to grant 140 million HUF to Hungarian families in Transcarpathia to raise young children in support of their kindergarten meals; on the basis of 2 thousand Hungarian teachers in Transcarpathia, including teachers and kindergarten teachers, a HUF 486 million budget was set for their salary supplement, and we voted for HUF 50 million to support the work of 400 clergymen in the field of sporadic communities. In addition, honourable Member, we have clear expectations about the administrative reform process in Ukraine. We expect that the Hungarian national community will not be put in a worse position during the reform of the language law, so that the rules on language use should not be detrimental or less favourable to Hungarians than at present, and we also expect that, following the administrative reform, as is the case now, there should be an administrative unit where Hungarians are majority. At present, the district of Beregszász, the administrative reform, will obviously affect the administrative units' positions and boundaries. We expect there to be an administrative unit where Hungarians are in the majority. Mr. President. I would like to assure the parliamentary parties that their cooperation will continue to be expected when we draw up our policy on Transcarpathian Hungarians. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And thank the Member once again for raising this important issue here at Parliament's plenary session. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-18	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Soltész, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda on the title of a global success in Hungary. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Another world-wide sports skier was harvested by a Hungarian team in Krakow, because Hungarian players gained a world-class silver and made it to the top 16 teams in the world. Within ten years of Sapporo, this hockey team succeeded for the second time, and I must say that this is the success of more people, more groups, more communities. [[Noise.]] For this reason, I would like to thank the players and team leaders who have prepared for the World Cup in the last few months and have represented the Hungarian nation in a unit that has certainly been uplifting. But I would also like to thank the Polish organizers here, through the Hungarian Parliament, who have given all their help to succeed in the World Championship. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we saw nothing at the final World Championship match - when Poland and I were actually playing the decisive match - that there was any pressure on the Hungarian team. They organized the entire World Championship sportingly. And, of course, thanks must be given to the fans, those 2-3 thousand and even 4-5 thousand Hungarian fans who created a fantastic atmosphere in the final match, the Hungarian team could play in a mood like playing their matches at home. We also have to say that the Hungarian cheer camp has grown above 8-10 thousand Polish spectators at the last final match. Unfortunately, a short negative moment has to be mentioned here, because a few dozen fans banned or not attending football matches nearly ruined the celebration of more than 15,000 people and almost ruined the success of the players, the first class of the World Championship. Even though the directors called for them not to start fires, not to fire firecrackers, not to threaten people, due to the behaviour of a few dozen people, the match was almost interrupted, and despite the fact that the best cheering camp at the World Hockey Championship was Hungarian, the most sporting was Hungarian, these few dozen people almost ruined the World Championship. That is why this proves that the extreme right-wing figures, the people who have finally been banned from the football fields, are not needed to be there, are finally not needed, precisely because families, young people and older people can go out to many places to play sports now, and if such figures appear, extreme right-wing figures, they destroy the success of the nation and the country. After all, I must say that the joy that we have shared together is, on the one hand, the incredible encouragement that we have had, and, on the other hand, the joint singing of the Anthem, which we have experienced in the past few days, definitely the success of the entire country. How did we get here? First of all, we must highlight the players, parents and team leaders who have been involved for decades, we must highlight the settlements and cities where the Hungarian ice hockey has achieved great success, so primarily Gábor Székesfehérvár led by Gábor Ocskay, led by István Miskolcot Egri, Debrecent, Dunaújváros, Budapest and the Csíkszereda of the cities across the border. However, I must thank the government for its decision to support not only hockey but also four other teams, since the supply has increased greatly in recent years, the number of careers has multiplied and young people have had unheard of opportunities. This success is everyone's success. Finally, thanks should be given to fans who have endured in all areas, who have endured each time, and we can say and say that the best ice hockey fans in the world are Hungarians. [[9.50]] Thank you for your encouragement, thank you for the sacrifice with which you encouraged that team for a week, after all, away from their workplace, in turn, a lot of money. To conclude, this success is also an opportunity for other sports, including world competitions, world championships and Olympics. [[Move. Noise.]] I hope that we can continue to support these sports within the corporate tax system. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-28-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, István Simicskó State Secretary will respond to what has been said. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to follow the events with a little more attention. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-04-28-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased to hear your speech, as the success of our hockey team is also the success of Hungary, the success of all Hungarians. This shows the value and strength of sport for our Hungarian community. This shows that whatever political debates may be in this country, one thing is certain: sport is our common language, our national language, and it is right and good. I would like to say that we have actually heard from Congressman Miklós Soltész about the most important sports news of the last few days, indeed the Hungarian hockey team is back among the best 16 teams in the world. Think about it: with the United States, Russia, Canada, the Swedes and Finns, the Hungarian national team will play. It's a huge achievement; it's huge, I must say, superhuman achievement on the part of the team. Indeed, there have been such serious successes in the last year in hockey and in Hungarian sports, of which the most important thing for me is that the number of young people playing hockey has doubled in Hungary. Obviously, this is also a success for the government, and I see that those who can take advantage of this opportunity live and bring success to the country. This is the Hockey Association, this is the world of ice hockey Hungarian athletes, and they have actually taken advantage of the possibility of Tao support. Until 31 March 2015, the Hungarian ice hockey sport received HUF 13.5 billion in the framework of the Tao Support. Indeed, at present there are 19 ice rinks in Hungary, let us consider that the Debrecen work hall, the cover of the Miskolc outdoor track, the renovation of the ice rink, the Óbuda ice hall and many ice halls have been built in the past. This is the way we need to go; indeed, the government must provide conditions for our athletes. This is what we do, this is the right way, this is the right way. Let me also give a brief historical overview of the development of ice sports in the context of Mr President's speech, which shows how Hungary has come to this point, since ice sports in Hungary has not been so strong in the past. In Britain, the first ice sports club was founded in Edinburgh in 1742. Think about it. At this ice sports club, you had to take an entrance exam for the members, you had to jump three top hats for the skating people, and that's how they got into this club. I think that, with the first launch of ball hockey in Europe, and later, the puck hockey has come from Canada, so the puck hockey and later Europe, Central Europe and thus Hungary have been conquered by this team sport. We know we're talking about the fastest team sports ever since the players are speeding at incredible speeds. Géza Arató, former instructor at the College of Physical Education in the 30s, who was the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Ice, says that the hockeyist should be a real acrobat of skating. I believe that when we saw the players of the Hungarian team play, whether against the Poles or against the others, we saw this. But they weren't just acrobats, they didn't just have the knowledge to jump over the three top hats, they were playing from the soul, and that's what I think was the extra energy that they could put into it. After all, not only physical strength, not only technical speed in a team sport and no sport, but also the strength of the soul, its spirituality. And this is a real team, it can be said that it is a real team, because real sportsmen make up the Hungarian hockey team, and the real sportsman shows that he is modest in victory and strong in defeat. All of this, these values are taken by our hockey players. I feel that a few days before the day of Hungarian sports this good news, this beautiful gift should bring us all joy. I feel that it is worth sacrificing to Hungarian sport, well, here are the successes, and I trust that we will have similar successes and joys. I would also like to thank the members of the hockey team, coaches, trainers and fans separately, and I think that we can all congratulate the Hungarian hockey team on its success. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-28-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will continue our work with decisions. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting equipment. It is now up to the decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the bill amending certain laws relating to the management of public land assets and the final vote. The submission was made in T/3788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The legislative committee's amendment before the final vote T/3788/18 and its report before the final vote T/3788/19. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In view of the fact that, at our meeting on 14 April, the National Assembly did not accept the parts of the summary amendment and of the bill requiring a qualified majority, the Legislative Committee T/3788/16. It submitted a revised, single proposal. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3788/18. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's amendment before the final vote 109 yes, 56 with no vote... - Secretary of State István Nagy indicates that his machine didn't work, and yes, his vote. So 110 yeses, 56 votes not, without abstention, was accepted by the Parliament. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the revised, unified proposal that has just been amended. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/3788/16. A revised single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended, revised, unified proposal 110 yeses, 57 votes not, without abstention. [[The representatives of the LMP raise a round table with the inscription:, Sold: Aggteleki National Park, Balaton Uplands National Park, Bükk National Park, Duna-Dráva National Park, Duna-Ipoly National Park, Fertő-Hanság National Park, Hortobágy National Park, Kiskunsági National Park, Körös-Maros National Park and Őrség National Park.]] I would ask my fellow Members of the LMP, after this unannounced illustration has been completed, to please take their seats, and I warn you that there has been a breach of the relevant regulation of the house. I will inform Mr President in writing. The final vote on the proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian women's rights will now follow. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/4036 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[10.00]] The decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending Law No I of 2004 on sport now follow. The submission is T/4038. was available to all of them. T/4038/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/4038/2. This is what we first decide to do. The amendment is proposed by Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the Group of the LMP Group has adopted the T/4038/2. This is what we first decide to do. The amendment is proposed by Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4038/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 8 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4038/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes in favour, 7 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the H/3883 on the national policy for spent fuel and radioactive waste management. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section H/3883/3 of the MSZP Group This is what we first decide to do. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] H/3883/3 of the MSZP Group. This is what we first decide to do. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. Since the Parliament has not maintained the amendment and the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/3883 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and 21 abstentions. The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law on the settlement of administrative revenue and a final vote. The submission is T/4020. It is available to all of them on the IT network. T/400/5 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report is T/400/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4020/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes in favour, 32 against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4020/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 52 against and four abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain energy laws. The submission is T/4289. was available to all of them. T/4289/7 and T/4289/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/4289/3. This is what we first decide to do. The amendment was proposed by Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, the Group of the LMP Group is set out in Article T/4289/3. This is what we first decide to do. The amendment was proposed by Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 8 votes to 138, with 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4289/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4289/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes in favour, 42 against and 15 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank settlement. The submission is T-4287. was available to all of them. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/4287/6, and its summary report T/4287/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4287/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 19 against and 34 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4287/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 164 votes to six, with two abstentions. CII of 2014 on the prohibition of Sunday work in the retail sector. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote will follow. The submission is T/4037. was available to all of them. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/4037/8, and its summary report T/4037/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Jobbik Group is the T/4037/3. The Commission withdrew its request to maintain the proposed amendment. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4037/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution, the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 137 votes to 137, 33 against, with 1 abstention. [[10.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4037/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes to 37 with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Now we're deciding on a series of subjects. I ask you whether you will consider the T/3029 on the amendment of certain laws to provide the guarantees required for the award of grants and other individual decisions submitted by József Tóbias and his fellow Members in a fair trial. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in the series of articles of the H/4071 on the national introduction of the social card and voucher and the money substitute submitted by Tamás Sneider, the predecessor of Novak and the editor Sebestyén. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 20 votes in favour, 149 against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. We are now continuing our work with general debates. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break so that all my fellow Members who leave the Chamber in order to fulfil their urgent duties can do so without disturbing the others. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. We'll get back to work. I would like to ask all my fellow Members, who have a different task now, to leave the Chamber for this to be done in an undisturbed manner. I would also ask the speaker to take his place. Thank you very much. The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. Legislative bill amending Act No. 5 and the 2011 CLXXXVII on Vocational Education and Training Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education a joint general dispute between the law and the bill amending the laws relating to them until closure. The legislative proposals are T/4476. and T/4475. received by my fellow Members by numbers. I declare that, as said at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the presentation will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I will also inform you that the expo will be performed in two parts. First, I give the floor to Secretary Judit Bertalan, Secretary of State, Ministry of Human Resources, T/4476. The author of bill No. 1 and the speaker of the expoes here on the platform, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Secretary. [[Attila Gelencsér is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]]
u2015-04-28-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Public Education Act was submitted as an agenda for the Public Education Act concerning the amendment of the VET Act relating to the agenda. As is well-known to you, the proposal to amend the public education law before us, along with the concept of "Professional education in the service of the economy" proposes significant changes to vocational schools, which are an integral part of the public education system, in the context of vocational training in the school system. For the economy to function efficiently and smoothly, continuous, well-designed and well-structured vocational training and skilled workers are also needed. Therefore, it is important that the vocational training system is developed in a direction that ensures, on the one hand, the well-trained, qualified and qualified workforce required for the rise of the Hungarian economy and, on the other hand, prevents the increase in the number of unemployed by coordinating the number of professionals in the training institutions and the needs of the economy. This is both a national demand and a public interest. On the basis of these interests and needs, we want and propose to amend the law governing the system of public education, in which we can achieve the objectives set by means of the substantive and structural renewal of education and training systems. The basic elements of this renewal are, according to the bill, a change in the types of vocational schools, which means not only a change of name, but also a substantial change in content. More specifically, the former secondary vocational school as a type of institution and the education, education and training in vocational secondary school will be changed to a vocational high school, with which the professional qualifications and qualifications that can be obtained here will not only qualify for a job, but also a specific OKJ qualification. Of course, these changes do not happen overnight, but in order to ensure adequate preparation time and a smooth transition of teachers and students in the system that will take place from 1 September 2016. Thus, the first new type of vocational qualification can be taken over by students in vocational school during the spring 2020 exam period. The vocational school also becomes a secondary vocational school, where students can get to their finals without a school change in the course of two years after the completion of the vocational exam. Of course, not only did he acquire a vocational qualification in a given secondary school, but this opportunity is also open to any former student in vocational school and vocational secondary school. In this form, the new type of secondary school becomes five years old instead of the previous three years. [[10.20]] Of course, this implies a partial change in the pedagogical stages, according to which the preparatory phase of school education for the acquisition of vocational qualifications begins after the stage of primary education, and the phase of secondary education takes place at the same time as the stage for the acquisition of vocational qualifications, and in vocational schools organised in the 12th, 13th, secondary secondary school for the purpose of the education and training of pupils with special educational needs, in the special vocational school for the development of skills, will be completed in the course of the year defined in the framework course. In the context of the above, basic public education tasks are changed between the interpretation provisions of the law and, of course, the 7th list of institutions of the public education system. I'm sorry, too. This amendment is also linked to the amendment of the provisions on the termination of student status, as set out in Article 10 of the proposal. In the new type of secondary school, after having passed the vocational exam, the student has a choice: he will continue his studies in the two years he prepares for his graduation, or he will be employed in the labour market. You can, of course, return to vocational school at any time if you want to get your diploma and then a higher level of professional qualifications. Another important element of the renewal of vocational training is the modification of the adult education age, the abolition of the age limit for further education in full-time education from the current age of 21 to 25 years and in adult education. This is possible until the second qualification is obtained. The bill also changes the nature and functioning of the public education bridge programmes, which were registered in 2011 as well, since the public education and vocational training bridge programmes were split up and strengthened, allowing each type to focus on its specific activities. Although the VET Bridge programme is essentially the responsibility of the Minister of National Economy as of 1 September 2016, including the definition of the content of the training and the designation of the institutions involved in the programme, it is proposed that the Minister for Education retains the power of agreement and opinion in this respect. The reason for this is, on the one hand, that, in addition to the primary education programme, the issue of public education and, on the other hand, the programme is of considerable importance in terms of catching up and compensation for disadvantages, so it is essential that the Minister for Social Inclusion has the right of agreement and opinion. The change in the Bridge programmes and the training phase for graduation are directly linked to the implementation of the strategy against school leaving without education developed by the Minister for Education and adopted by the Government in November 2014. Both measures strengthen the role of vocational training in creating opportunities and training methods to improve the level of education, the diversity of learning paths. It will also ensure interoperability, re-regulating the acquisition of recognised professional qualifications in adult education. Of course, effective interpretation of the provisions in the vocational training system requires improvements. The Minister of National Economy will operate vocational training schools with the involvement of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office within the framework of a new type of institution for efficient and economical education organisation. The vocational training centre can be defined as a multi-purpose institution in the concept of the public education sector and is therefore listed in the National Public Education Act among the multi-purpose institutions. The structure, management structure and other relevant rules of the vocational training centre, given that it is a special institution for the acquisition of professional qualifications, which is purely vocational training, public education, and that of the Minister of National Economy, will be regulated in detail by the VET Act. Interoperability between different paths and trainings is ensured by the provision that, in the case of continuing studies on the acquisition of professional qualifications, a repeat of the successful completion of the course may be permitted if the student chooses to take part in a training course for the acquisition of another qualification. A very important change, linked to the training structure of the new type of secondary school, is that, given the fact that there is a preparation for graduation here as well, in the first three years, in the 9th and 11th grade, master's education is necessary for teaching the subjects of public knowledge. Right now, college education is enough for that. Of course, here we have also thought about the proposal to ensure the preparation time for teachers who are currently teaching in vocational school with a degree in college, which is why the following text proposal has been incorporated. From 1 September 2016, a teacher's course in secondary education in secondary secondary schools may be filled with a degree of education and teaching skills at the university level in grade 9-11, provided that the teacher's degree and qualification corresponding to the master's course is acquired by the person concerned by 1 September 2021. This provision does not apply, it may continue to be used in the secondary vocational school in the teacher's work, but the teacher who has completed the final exam may no longer be the one who has less than ten years to reach the age limit to which he is entitled. A change in the conditions of teaching in vocational schools, which is not found in the amendment of the National Public Education Act, but also in the agreement of the Minister for National Economy and Education, has also been formulated in the VET Act, and this is the requirement for those with the qualifications required for the teaching of theoretical subjects in vocational education schools, according to which a specialist with the qualifications required for the teaching of theoretical subjects in vocational education schools is considered to be qualified as a specialist who has the professional qualifications corresponding to the content of training, without which a higher education degree and qualifications corresponding to the content of training, or a higher education degree, and a vocational qualification appropriate to the field of education. This rule is necessary in order to ensure a qualified professional pool until a sufficient number of teachers with the qualifications defined as the final goal are available, but their attraction to the field and their retention there are desirable and necessary solutions in the long term for the operation of the vocational training system. In addition, the amendment of the National Public Education Act contains two elements which are not linked to the transformation of vocational training. One is to change the name of the subject of ethics to ethics. This change of name is justified by the fact that the term "ethical subject" is more suited to public education and educational purposes, separating church and secular concepts. The teaching material used will not change, and children will continue to learn the same content of knowledge under this name according to moral standards and the textbooks developed in the framework of ethics. Thus, the curriculum and textbooks related to the current ethical subject will continue to be used. The other amendment, which is not linked to the transformation of the vocational training system, shows that there is ongoing consultation with our social partners, such as the National Teacher Faculty, as well as the pedagogical union. At the request of the trade union, the National Pedagogical Faculty will be re-regulated at a legal level to require its cooperation with representative trade unions in the course of its professional representation and to respect the rights of trade unions guaranteed by the Labour Code and the Law on the Status of Civil Employees. From what we have just said, it is clear that, along the accepted vocational training concept "Vocational training in the service of the economy" the public education system is flexible while maintaining a uniform system of public education institutions to strengthen vocational training content and to develop a new vocational training system, and, in some cases, to introduce changes that strengthen the functioning of the public education system. I call on this House to discuss the bill and to adopt it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.30]]
u2015-04-28-24	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The T/4475. Mr Sándor Czomba, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, who is also presenting his expo on this platform. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government considers the promotion and support of a knowledge-based, competitive economy as a priority which requires a skilled workforce capable of adapting to social change and new challenges in the labour market. I think that what we are talking about today will be crucial, especially for the Hungarian economy, because today in Hungary, the engine of economic growth or the barrier to economic growth can be whether there is an adequate number and quality of labour available, and here we have long been talking not only about the regions that are in a better economic situation, but also about the country as a whole. Allow me some speechable data to support why we had to touch it, and significantly to the VET Act. While there are 300-400,000 registered jobseekers in Hungary for years or decades or more, at the end of each month there are 60-70-80 thousand vacant jobs in Hungary, partly qualified and partly unskilled. Obviously, there are demographic and many other problems, geopolitical and other problems, but we need to see that nearly 60 percent of the jobseekers registered today are unskilled. We also need to see that in recent years, over the past few years, the number of young people under the age of 24 with a smooth maturity has increased significantly in the register. Therefore, this indicates that it is difficult or, where appropriate, impossible to find a job with one graduation in the labour market. Another important fact is that we have looked at how many people over the age of 57 are currently working in short-term labour market in Hungary, and in the next 3-4-5 years nearly 50,000 people will leave the labour market in short-term jobs. I would like to point out that if the vocational training system is not able to follow these events, we will not be able to produce the number of people in the deficit trades that will appear only in the Hungarian labour market in the next period. But not only for skilled workers, but also for engineers, I can say that more than 10,000 engineers will leave the labour market for the next 4-5 years, their replacement will not be easy either. Then we also need to see that we are facing very serious demographic problems, because while in the early 1990s 180 000 people graduated from primary school in the order of magnitude, this figure fell to 120,000 in the last year or last years, so it was a good 50,000, even more because of demographic problems, obviously, and 90 percent of the decline affected vocational schools. So basically what happened is that in professions where industry, service sector, agriculture professionals are very much needed, we can't find or hardly find. Meanwhile, there are serious imbalances in the labour market when someone takes the time to look at it, say, per county. I was just thinking of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and I looked at one of the data. For example, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, there are almost 900 registered job-seeking shop sellers, while they are looking for 16. And I would know a number of other problems like this or something. So in Hungarian, if we are not able to adapt vocational training to the needs of the labour market in the coming years... - and not only on paper, but also in fact, because in many cases we were qualified on paper, only the paper did not cover the content that the labour market would otherwise have required of a graduate student. This process has started in the last government cycle, and since 2012, the dual training system has started in Hungary, not entirely, but in certain areas, and we are expanding it here in recent years. It is no coincidence that we are strengthening dual training, because duality is clearly about the fact that, in addition to theoretical training during school years, young people learn the professional experience, practical knowledge, whatever profession they can employ immediately after the order, within 24 hours. This has not always been the case in the past. I would like to say that we have often been accused of creating specialist barbarians with this new system. No, not at all. To no extent would we want the professional part to be at the expense of general education. However, I think that things should be handled in place and in place. Secondary education cannot be burdened with a lack of knowledge in primary education. With functional illiterates in secondary education, whether vocational or vocational school, results cannot be achieved. So one of the key pillars that we are starting from is the entry into secondary education in the coming years by people who can and can learn professional and public knowledge at the level that the middle degree needs. That sounds good, but that would mean that if we wanted to transform the whole system, we would have to start in the first grade of primary school, and in eight years the first grade would be in mid-grade. We don't have that much time for this. So we here must consciously and with the right scales move in the direction of less grabbing, but more catch. I think that this is important in terms of the basic degree, and equally ingenious, I think, also in terms of secondary education, because I would like to draw attention to the fact that in previous years there was such a thing as studying in vocational schools for 4 years or even 5 years, remembering it during the 2000s. What happened? In the ninth grade, in the tenth grade, 30-35-40 percent of the students failed. So the time factor alone doesn't solve everything. So if you're complaining about why we've spent three years in vocational school, then the question is not whether it's 3 years, 4 years or 5 years, but what content it's filled with. I think that if young people come out of primary education the way they do, then the debate is that the proportion of public knowledge in the 3 years vocational school is one third, 40 percent, 60 percent, it is a question, but it is a less racial issue. The question is whether, at the end, it can provide marketable knowledge that can be handled well both for the labour market and for young people. The draft law, which is now before us, amends four important laws, essentially aims to lay down the content of the concept of vocational training. So in Hungarian, the government adopted the concept of vocational training a few months ago, and now we are translating it, and it is a very important issue that everything I am talking about or talking about is not possible to implement the wrong legislation well. So if the legislation that we have now brought before Parliament does not meet these goals and expectations, then it can indeed cause serious problems. My conviction is that, in principle, the draft law that is in front of us will pursue these goals, and it will serve them faithfully. But let's get a little more specific. There are important dates, 1 July 2015 will be the first important date when a significant part of public schools, nearly 400 vocational training institutions, will be maintained by the Ministry of National Economy. It's no longer a goal, it's a tool, it's already important on the tool page. Overall, we would like to indicate that the Ministry of National Economy sees the task of operating vocational training institutions in this regard in such a way that the specialties that characterize them... - so in a high school, in primary school, the management of daily life is much simpler than in a vocational training institution, because there are a number of tasks that need to be handled from the time of acquisition of raw materials, and we perceive that in the previous period we have not been able to function effectively. [[10.40]] One of our main tasks is to be able to operate this effectively in the coming years. Of course, the institutions must also think about appropriate professional, budgetary, financial and other autonomy; we want to create and grant this kind of autonomy through legislation. There are important changes in terms of names, but not only in terms of names, but also in content issues. The current secondary vocational schools will be known as vocational schools from 2016-17, not only in order to make the feeling different, but also in terms of content there will be very serious changes. The word "high school" suggests that it will end in the same way as normal and new high schools. Here, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that there is no difference between the two graduations, so the number of compulsory graduations will, of course, not be less than one jotton in high school. Of course, if someone from the vocational high school wants to go to medical school, there will be an opportunity not to touch biology and chemistry class, because it is important that he learns at least as many classes as the high school student. For the engineer, it is important that he learns physics and other subjects in a class that enables him to master this profession properly in the coming years. Another very important change is that, at the end of the fourth year, we would like to issue a certificate of OKJ, recognised by the state, primarily code 3, who are in the profession, you know what I am talking about. In English, in addition to graduation, a person who is going to attend a vocational high school under the new system can also acquire a profession. And, of course, we also leave the possibility of giving him an extra year of technical qualification, and, in the case of high school students, we want the tech course to be open for them by the four years plus two years. The current vocational schools are turning into vocational schools, and this is not just a name problem, but content issues. We're thinking three plus two systems according to the new system. This means that after three years of vocational schooling, the student will receive his professional worker certificate, and we want to enable everyone to get to two more years of graduation. Obviously, there will be someone who won't make that decision, but we'll give it to everyone. This type of school creates the basis for this. I think that the issue of interoperability is important in all respects. If you read the draft legislation carefully, you can see that the system can be crossed from the bottom up and from the top down. We see, we know and perceive that there are a lot of registered jobseekers between the ages of 16 and 18 in the system, without any professional qualifications or professional knowledge. But at the other end, we often experience a six-month dropout from college, a year from college, because he can't take it. And where does it fall to? Ain't nothing. He's got a high school diploma, and from the start, as I just mentioned, with a simple graduation, it's very difficult to get into the labour market today. So we can also observe a change of perspective here. With regard to the Bridge Programme, I would just like to point out that the two-year VET Bridge Programme will be maintained in a slightly different way in the next period, but we would like to maintain it, because we consider that this is necessary. Since the autumn of 2015 - these are important sentences; those of us who have been throughout the country and talked to the directors of vocational training institutions, we know that there has been a positive reception everywhere, mainly because they suggested it, and we have heard it and incorporated it into the legislation - in the state vocational training system two qualifications will be free of charge. In English, the second qualification will also be free. I think this is a very, very important message for everyone. It is an important change to bring back the position of the practical head of education in vocational training institutions. This will also replace a serious hiatus in the coming period. It is also important, as the State Secretary has already mentioned, that we are moving from 21 to 25 years the age limit for studies that can be started in daytime education. I think it's also a very important achievement. As regards the career model of teachers, I do not want to give a detailed account of this right now, as the Secretary of State has mentioned it, I would just like to highlight the most important thing. We would very much like to see engineers and professionals who want to teach because they feel committed to teaching, not hindered by legislation. Another issue, of course, is that if their lives are permanently moved to this course, they cannot do this without a pedagogical degree, but we should not limit the conditions of entry to people who want to teach, and otherwise they are good professionals. In this respect, our biggest problem is the instructors, because there are no replacements for the instructors, and a lot of people in the company sector also work after retirement. Here, we need to develop a set of rules so that, at the moment, specialists where there is a shortage and we cannot replace them, we can provide some sort of facilitation so that the smoothness of training can be achieved either in corporate or in school workshops. We would also like to extend the institution of the apprenticeship to adult education. There is also a legal framework for this. As regards the importance of spreading the form of dual vocational training: what does it take to spread this form of training in Hungary? We need more students. We need students who choose a lack of skills. We need more businesses that are willing, able and willing to participate in student training. What do you need for that? I need a lot of things. Among other things, the possibility should be provided from a source. However, the VET Contribution Act will also be substantially amended accordingly. But how? To be more students, we need to be able to increase the number of missing professions. At present, 12 gaps can be identified per county, obviously because of the budgetary implications. We would like to increase this number to 20 in the next period - this is a very important message - because this means that anyone who chooses a deficiency profession is learning well and even has a study contract can simply receive a net HUF 40-50 thousand as a scholarship. It's not necessarily called all three scholarships, but together, and I think it's an important message. Another important part is how businesses can be ambitious, and especially small ones, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because they have not had much to do with students so far. We have made it a guarantee condition in the legislation to make it easier to do so. In English, simply to put it this way, if a small contractor, who has so far had to pay 100 thousand forints of vocational training contributions to the central budget, employs a welder student, which comes with a specific grant of 900 thousand forints - I quote - he can claim back the difference between the two - it is even easier because in many cases he does not have to pay it - from the central budget. The problem is that many people don't see this yet, because in recent years, in the period before 2010, the system has been more complicated, and I can see that breaking this wall is not an easy task, because it is still more so in the minds of accountants that you pay and solve the problem, and then you don't have to deal with a student. It is very, very important that we succeed on this path. We would like to increase the number of businesses from 8 thousand to 15-20 thousand for the 2018 school year. This is a serious task and a serious challenge for us. [[10.50]] I also think that it is an important element that other organisations that are not eligible to enter into an apprenticeship can participate in the contribution scheme. I'll translate it into Hungarian, because this might sound a little weird in the morning. The point is that, let's say, hospitals were not obliged to pay vocational training contributions, but they employed a lot of students, but they couldn't get the benefits I was talking about here. Now we give them the opportunity, because the important thing is that the person who employs a student should be worth working with a student, not only from a professional point of view, but also from a financial or economic point of view. We have launched dual-system training in higher education training, which requires the creation of resources. This leg of the Employment Fund, can also be claimed from there. I think it is a very important change that, so far, the Vocational Training Fund has enabled an entrepreneur to apply for the employment of a student to apply for a machine, tool and equipment by having a central tender and who has won, has won, has won, has not won; is it not a rather subjective system? We are now laying the foundations for the fact that, in practice, I am simply putting it this way, you will receive additional support on a quasi-normative basis, which you can only use for teaching tools, machines, equipment and the rest. In English, we do not need to apply, but we leave these resources at the businesses. I think I do not think, I know that businesses understand and welcome this kind of amendment to the law. Dear House, On 1 September 2013, more than a year and a half ago, the Adult Education Act entered into force. The experience of the past year and a half proves that he has completed the main task for him and that, under the very diverse conditions of obtaining the licence, more than 1100 adult-educated institutions have been trained in the past period. Here we touch the law in two places because we feel that it is necessary. One is that there have been anomalies in the acquisition of OKJ that justify making it clear that OKJ courses or courses that look like OKJs are being organised by certain training organisations. The other is the area of language training where we perceive it, and we are not the only ones, so clearly the proposals and opinions of the profession, and the peculiarities related to language training, are being introduced into the law in the next period. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the proposed legislative amendment will make the institutional system of vocational training more effective, making it more flexible and more attractive by improving the quality and effectiveness of training, contributing to an increase in the prestige of vocational education and training, and increasing numbers of people seeing a career in which they thrive. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Parliament to discuss and accept the bill submitted by the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-28-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, and the keynote speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education We are discussing amendments to law and related laws. Of course, I will not miss the 2011 law on national public education, but it will be discussed in detail by my fellow Member, László Kucsák, because basically this is a substantive amendment to the VET Act. I think, and that is what we have heard in Mr Secretary of State's exposé, that this was a conscious preparation, because in 2011, in the previous term, Parliament adopted the law and was introduced from September 2013. Then, by drawing on and summing up the experience, at the beginning of the year, the government adopted a concept entitled "Professional training in the service of the economy." The title already says a lot, because vocational training must be transformed both in its content and in its institutional system in such a way that it serves the needs of the economy as much as possible, from this point of view, those who are involved in vocational education and training in the school system will, to say, find work with the evidence of skilled workers, receive useful knowledge, because, in fact, if it is good for them, it is good for the economy, because economic growth can be achieved. The concept of government, which I have referred to, "Professional training in the service of the economy" - focuses on the development of a vocational training institution system, economic needs and the creation of a school system of competitive knowledge. Let us ask the question, because the key question is always how to achieve this, how to create this, how to create a flexible, high-quality system. Allow me a quote from this point of view, which is also true of public education, is true of vocational training, at all, of the entire education system. I would like to say this quote as a guiding principle what is the school's job, and we need to create the legislative framework, the institutional framework for content and quality education. This quote from Albert Szent-Györgyi, who, as we know, received a Nobel Prize here in 1937 in Hungary. It says: "It's the school's job to teach us how to learn. To arouse our appetite for knowledge, to teach us the joy of doing well and the excitement of creation, to teach us to love what we do and to help us find what we like to do. I think that this is true for the whole of education, but this quote on vocational training is particularly applicable or can be said. So what's our goal? Mr Secretary of State said that there are goals for the country to step up a class in the world of vocational training. Let's take a step forward. Everything points to the development of human resources as one of the keys to sustainable development and economic growth. Thus, the greatest challenge facing domestic education, including vocational training, is to increase the quality, efficiency and chance-building power of education and education. To this end, we are adapting the vocational training system and this is supported by the Fidesz fraction. Yeah, how do we make it? The legislative framework will become more effective and transparent if Parliament adopts these amendments and the structure of training becomes more transparent. Thanks to this transformation, there has been a clear focus on new basic vocational training, but it has also been shown that changes need to be broadened to allow the VET system to respond adequately to the constantly changing, renewable challenges of the economy and the labour market. Dear House, Before I talk about the details, some of the specific things that have been said in the expo, but I would like to amplify or confirm them, allow me to bring a quote from Prime Minister. I read on yesterday's news that yesterday was the opening of the Szakmasztár festival, where Mr. State Secretary participated, and where Prime Minister said in the opening, I quote: "The professional worker certificate is worth something if it is a valid entry into the labour market. He added: "If young people have a future, then the whole country will rise. Then there's meaningful work, there's decent pay. We therefore want to give young people not only a skilled worker certificate, but also useful knowledge and the future. So far, the quote I took from yesterday's news. [[11.00]] And I can only say: yes, useful knowledge, a safe livelihood, a secure job for young people and a growth for the country. We've heard in the Secretary of State Expo that the unskilled are most affected by unemployment. I also come from a region - from a county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg - where unemployment is significantly higher than the national average, and especially in the peripheral regions, in the northeast of the country. It is very difficult to break out of this situation, and in my opinion, only with quality education, with the new vocational training system, is there a chance for young people who are unable to attend a higher school. Because the school system is open to everyone, I would like to underline this, so we do not want to increase the number of students in vocational training at the expense of others, not other types of schools, we avoid this misunderstanding; I look at my fellow opposition Members to say that we do not have to say this because we understand it, we see it. And as Sándor Czomba said, fewer and fewer children graduate from primary school, 120,000, and fewer and fewer of us, this is a demographic disaster, and more and more teachers and teachers, as part of the Ratko generation, are leaving the labour market, and more and more people are getting older and older. Thus, employment can also be improved by this amendment. Dear House, Before the specific development goals and amendments, allow me to examine what vocational training systems they intend to build or build in the European Union and how well the Hungarian vocational training system fits into this. Many of us have heard about the Copenhagen process, as the reform of European vocational training started some 13 years ago, and then it was revised, and targets were set between 2011 and 20, and this was the Bruges Communication. What should this vocational training system be like? I say only the principles, which are similar to the Hungarian system: flexible and high quality; adaptable to the change of market needs, emerging sectors and skills; open to everyone, based on sustainable funding; and lead to an efficient and equitable use of resources. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention some of the specifics already mentioned by the Secretary of State, confirming that the Fidesz faction supports these amendments. One is the need to train more skilled workers and technicians. I've looked at the numbers, Mr. Secretary, 105,000 students currently attend vocational school, 200,000 students in vocational secondary school and 185,000 in high school. This also shows how education can be improved qualitatively, or perhaps even in quantity, if the vocational school - and the vocational school becomes a vocational secondary school, the vocational secondary school, as we have heard - can actually give our children qualifications that they can manage. This is one of the things that requires training for more skilled workers and technicians, and, as we have heard, I do not want to repeat, the skills of shortages in this area deserve special attention. The second point is the need to strengthen dual training, to increase training facilities and training opportunities, and to increase numbers. Dual training combines theoretical and practical knowledge itself; coordination is needed, training is needed, company involvement is needed, practical training places are needed. These are partly available, but strengthening these processes is one of the most important tasks. It is no coincidence that we are also talking about dual training in higher education, and dual training, in my opinion, has a very serious future. I note only in parentheses, here we use the German sample as a basis, but of course it cannot be fully adapted, as Hungary is not Germany, but those successful processes can be adapted. And the third thing I think is very important: increasing the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of training and thus increasing the prestige of vocational training. If prestige rises - don't they, they build on each other, these concepts, standards, institutional systems, the legislative framework, we all know that, but if prestige rises, that rank gets into a school that maybe didn't have this idea in us before, then it becomes attractive to our children, and if it becomes attractive and flexible, interoperable, then more and more people will choose this type of school and school-based training. And I don't want to mention big companies by name, they're going to be involved in vocational training, or there's going to be an excellent training facility there. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill contains the new types of vocational training institutions. These types of vocational training institutions will be under the control of the Minister of National Economy, and in my opinion it will be more direct management, more operational work, more lifelike, closer, not the institutions themselves, but the levels of governance that the bill will build if we accept it. These are vocational training centres, up to three per county, ten in the capital, where vocational education schools as member institutions will belong; this includes vocational secondary schools, high school education on a runway, where there is such education, but I myself know such a type of school in my constituency, and this includes vocational and special vocational school forms and member institutions. In my opinion, they will be closer, they will provide a maintenance and management professional base, at least as we have heard, Mr Sándor Czomba has much information on this, but I myself have spoken to the leaders of some vocational training institutions, and they consider this design to be good. So we asked them, and we don't lecture them from above, because they say there's a vocational training center closer, it brings together the same regions and schools of the same size, with the same training. We talked about high school majors, current vocational schools. This will be introduced from the 2016-17 academic year. Prior to the graduation period, the ratio of vocational training and practical training increases, but not at the expense of public knowledge subjects, and after graduation an additional year of learning can be used to obtain a technical qualification. These four plus one. And there is the current vocational school that becomes a vocational school, the three plus two that gives a profession, and two years of learning to get a degree. I would like to underline that we have to graduate from four mandatory subjects of public knowledge, so there is no concession here that it is smaller, the same set of criteria, the same standards are expected and demanded. The fourth form is the vocational school, the current specialized school. Allow me to give some thought to the importance of catching up. Not catching up, catching up, because it's two-sided. So not only do we have to want it, but also the student or the parents of the students to rise up so that they can move forward with useful knowledge. And in this respect, I would refer to the Bridge Programme, too, and I support - and I am not alone - the Bridge Programme for Vocational Training, as this is the risk of dropout..., well, dropout is certain, but there will be less dropout. And we consider it a very good initiative that two qualifications can be obtained free of charge. So far this has been one, now this is expanding, I mean in the state vocational training system, of course, and I'm not talking about anything else, not public bodies, not a public school system. That's definitely positive. [[11.10]] The strengthening of dual training is also positive. I would just like to mention here that dual training is based on close and constructive cooperation between public and market players, jointly performing the tasks, sharing responsibility and costs. According to the bill, the job as leader of practical education will be introduced; or it will be restored, I don't know exactly how to put it, but it is definitely good and positive. We heard about the apprenticeship, and it was also about the fact that if we combine everything with the student contract, cooperation agreement, scholarships, it could amount to 40-50 thousand forints for a good student. I think it is very good that the fact that the central organisation of the module final exam is introduced by the law to help ensure a uniform standard of examination. Yes, there is a need to standardize the conditionality. Rules will also be drawn up in line with the public education career model, but taking better account of the qualifications of trainers in vocational training, according to the bill. Allow me to say a few words about adult education, adult education, before I sum it up, because perhaps we should make a little better progress. To tell you the truth, I know the Danish, Swedish, Scandinavian examples, and I have just looked at the numbers prepared for the speaker's speech: 28-30 percent of the students in adult education are involved, and this is 3.3 percent of the order of magnitude. But there are more of these countries. So the Scandinavians stand out. This lifelong learning, the lifelong learning that Bishop Grundtvig created with the Danish folk college system. In fact, in 1844, Denmark was also a poor country, an agricultural country, and there were two goals: to teach young peasants or young people to read and write and to teach farming at all. So now, very simplistically, the 21st century. I would like these forms of adult education, also mentioned by the Secretary of State, to extend adult education, to extend the possibility of student contract binding to adult education, but also to monitor those trainings, because it is important to move towards quality education in adult education, to strengthen control and to better protect those involved in training... - let us be honest, not only for support, but also for money, but also for real, high-quality education. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a summation, I can say about the legislative proposals before us in the joint general debate that, in the event of the adoption of the legislative proposals, it can transform to the benefit of vocational training, promote practice-oriented training, create flexible and high-quality vocational training, which takes account of the needs of the economy, through training, a good team of professionals can promote economic growth, improve employment indicators, contribute to improving our competitiveness by finding and finding a skilled, good workforce. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that their keynote speech will be presented by two rapporteurs within the 30-minute time frame available. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2015-04-28-29	Mr President, Let me ask you, does Mr. Chuchak not get a word in front of me? 'Cause they thought they'd share it.
u2015-04-28-30	Mr Kucsák will speak ex post in a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-04-28-31	All right. He didn't seem to think so, either. But can I get started?
u2015-04-28-32	Of course. I gave you the floor.
u2015-04-28-33	Thank you very much. We are looking at the presentation of the Ministry of National Economy - Vocational Training in the Service of the Economy. I would like to start by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we basically agree with the title and with the philosophy that this bill has been brought before this House, but we do not want the children, the poorer parts of a generation, who are going to vocational schools to study - we all know that - to the market economy they would be granted endlessly. So I would like all of our critical proposals, or, if any, positive comments, to be appreciated, to be able to make a law at the same time today to ensure that vocational training is in the service of the economy, as you have often said, but there cannot be children who, by the way, are chosen from the poorer parts of society, exposed to the market economy. My first very important point, which, unfortunately, has been accompanied by your legislative and educational philosophy since 2010, is a very important delusion that there are quantitative problems. Mr Czomba has made it clear from the figures that there will be a time when there will be shortages in certain areas, when many people over the age of 57 will have to be replaced, but basically we need to be careful not only to solve a quantitative problem, but also a qualitative problem. This has been accompanying us since the change of regime, because we all saw and felt that, at the time of the change of regime, political decision-makers at that time were faced with the fact that in this country not only professions, but also whole industries, were running out of social crowds, millions of people's feet and hands. That's what we had to fix. Unfortunately, the political elite, I must say, has not been able to really fix vocational training in the last 25 years. What I am pleased about is that you are now turning with this package of proposals more towards what social democratic governments, the socialists, have urged us to raise the number of candidates for vocational school and vocational secondary schools to the highest possible level. But, basically, we have had such a deep gap between us since 2010, a conceptual contrast that we simply cannot bridge, although we would agree on a lot of things, and I must say to you that I am doing all my speeches on education by creating a social minimum, a national minimum. The fundamental difference of opinion - and Mr Czomba drew attention to this, and I can find a semi-large coalition partner in this, even if you are surprised at that - is that children go from primary school to vocational school and towards higher education. If the first eight years do not base what Mr Czomba said - which I agree deeply with and to which Mr Vinnai pointed out - then you will simply not be able to do a good vocational training system, you cannot do that, you will hang in the air, because you will not support it. Mr. Czomba said that he no longer knows how to go to vocational schools, vocational schools - whatever renaming you are now, vocational gymnasium or whatever it is, what it is, because that is not the point - to teach children how to write, read, count. The number of functional illiterates in Hungary is amazing, and unfortunately this will only continue to increase in the system that has changed from public education to public education since 2010. So with all due respect to you, with all due respect to your efforts, and we will support what we can, but if we do not agree on the right and left side of Hungary that primary school training is the basis for good vocational training, good skilled workers - and you have said this many times, too, I am also listening to Mr Czomba's statements, even the Parragh, whom I have criticized a lot of times, whom I think is shameful to assist, and who is now entering the higher education business... - but this does not belong here. When consulting economic operators, what do economic operators usually say: that basically there are quality problems. It is okay for a state to encourage dual training, how much it considers the German model to be an example, but there is nothing a good employer can do if the child cannot read or write, if he doesn't even understand his employment contract and I can list it. [[11.20]] That's the basic problem. If the political elite can reach consensus on this in Hungary today, we will be much further ahead. I'd like to continue. Compared to this, in the Public Education Act, I would like to ask you: the uniformization, centralization, the emancipation book, the unteachable and unteachable National Master's Plan, the change in pedagogical culture will help children learn to read, read, understand text, or, as Mr.Vinnai perfectly put it: will the primary school teach children to learn and develop a desire for knowledge in them? That's the basic problem. I'm sorry that I'm here for so long, but this is basically the deep gap that if we can't bridge it, despite all their good intentions, they won't be able to cross a line that will make this vocational training system work. Unfortunately, we also saw in vocational training after 2010 that what we are missing in the public education programme was even more silly in vocational training. They have drastically reduced the number of public knowledge classes. The poor of a generation apply to these schools. In addition to the professional knowledge they are right about, they simply have a basic need to strengthen their basic competences, since these children, at the age of 6-7, when they reach school age, do not even have the same vocabulary as their middle class counterparts. And I would quote the sentence of Mr. Vinnai about catching up. You're right, but you have to see clearly - you say - that there are two sides to this. Not only should politics strive to build systems that help, but also the individual needs, but these children do not have a pattern that you or I had, that your father or mother had a degree, sat next to him, sent him for extra classes, taught him language lessons, wrote your homework, special tutoring. What we need to understand - and that was our big debate with my dear fellow Member, who now stands up [[Márius Révész points to himself.]] - that basically it is not a purpose, but a means of teaching; it is in the hands of the state at hand that it is a means to hold hands with these poorest children. The obligation to teach is not worth anything at all - you were always right about it - if it is not embedded in a system that compensates for the family disadvantage and lack of motivation that these children bring with them quite simply. I'd like to respond to the Bridge programmes. It's a dead end thing, a symptomatic treatment of the basic problem I've been talking about for a long time. In the Bridge programme - all research shows - they function as a sort of auxiliary department everywhere, as you know: with reduced pedagogical program, reduced teaching material, quite simply 70-80-90 percent of children cannot be reintegrated into the normal education system. I'm not saying that we didn't think about it when we were on the government, but we need to be clear that at least the mistakes that the political elite has already been through in the last 20 years are not to be made again. I would therefore like to come to concrete proposals; I look at my time quickly, but I still have time. So they rename the two types of vocational training. The secondary vocational school is renamed a vocational high school on the grounds that it is intended to restore the attractiveness of this type of school. At the high school, students graduate after four years, in the fifth year they study the profession and take a tech exam. Since 1985, when technician training was re-introduced in Hungary, the vocational schools worked in a 4+1 system. In this type of school, it has been possible for decades to count on the basic professional skills acquired in the 9-12th grade, and on this basis it was possible to obtain a professional qualification in the 13th grade. Please, what's new? They may not know it at the Ministry of National Economy, but the vocational school is still the most popular type of school in our country, almost 40 percent of the students come here after primary school. Another twist is that they want to recognise professional qualifications, OKJ qualifications. During the 9-12th grade of the vocational high school, students only learn about 1200 hours of basic professional knowledge, for which professional qualifications are simply not available. Professional education begins in the 13th grade. It is also a problem, in my opinion, that the vocational high school, vocational high school, prepares only for professional further education under the law. Why can't a student or graduate from a vocational high school change his career if he wants to continue his studies in high school and later he doesn't want to go to the university? He's supposed to take the same GED from the same subject as the high school student. But is that really how it's gonna be? - I'm asking. Is there a single maturity requirement, or is there a single maturity requirement that you want to break? They go on: the vocational school will be classified as a vocational secondary school, renamed, indicating that students can pass the final exam after another two years, based on the three-year vocational school course. However, I think it's a cheat of parents and students - I'm sorry. In the current school of industrial apprentices, all the subjects of public knowledge are taught six hours a week. That way, you can't get a teaching class for a class in practically a week. How do you think, based on this, you can prepare for a graduation exam in two years for a small child from an otherwise complexly disadvantaged family? The author of the draft law, forgive me, or does not know the requirements of a single graduation exam, or intends to introduce a specific graduation requirement for this type of school later, but, as I heard from Mr Czomba's introduction, I would rather accept what he said. Make an effort to take public knowledge lessons out of the Prime Minister to give him money, otherwise his whole concept, the way it is, will fail. The same as in elementary school: if they tighten this system further into a vocational school system, they will simply not know what to do with these children. The above renamings only disturb parents and children in the selection of school types, but like so many things, they will learn this in Hungary as all the achievements of NER. It is planned that the background institution of the Ministry of National Economy will take over the maintenance of vocational schools. The question is not whether some 500 vocational schools are transferred to another centre from the institution maintenance of the so far inoperative KLIK - Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center. Please, ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether schools will get their professional, pedagogical and economic autonomy back. However, there is no chance of this, as they want to create a 30-40 school centre between the maintenance and schools. In this way, the mammoth institutions of 10,000 people and the member institutions below them will be created, which will simply not have any autonomy. Learn from the KLIK! I'd like to add a semi-spoken sentence: you could tell your mayors when you're in kindergarten, don't make the same mistake. It's quite simply that the CLIK doesn't work, so don't do the same thing in the world of the economy. None of the drafts discuss how, how and how vocational schools use and use the background institutions and services of public education - OH, OFI, Kello, district administrations; nor how, in what way and under what conditions, EMMI will supervise these types of public education institution. I go on: they want to expand the dual training system with the involvement of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises - commendable. This has not worked in the last four years, because it is not a matter of wishes, I am aware of it as an opposition. According to KSH data, this affected only 2% of students in the 2003-2004 academic year. I mentioned a correct year. Enlargement attempts are also unsuccessful because companies do not have the personal or material conditions to organise practical activities, and changes to vocational training contributions will not excite the entrepreneurial sector that has not previously wished to participate in the training. [[11.30]] Experience has shown that only businesses with a minimum of 30-50 are willing to train at least 3-5 students to provide good public incentives. Moreover, their amendment to the VET contribution merely aims to restore a part of the system that, before 2010, encouraged economic operators to engage more in training and to re-energise their own employees. According to the law - and I say the last point, giving the floor to my fellow Member - teachers can teach professional, theoretical and practical subjects in vocational schools without a pedagogical degree. This is a blow to the face of the pedagogical profession, please, and not least to ignore the fact that students are not young adults, they are underage, or children. Without pedagogical knowledge, how can you imagine raising and educating young people aged 14-18? Consider this, too. And then, unfortunately, I didn't have much time left; for foundations and private schools that also pursue vocational training, this system will continue to tighten, their gates will virtually close - but I would like to participate in this debate. I ask you to pay attention to equal opportunities, not just the requirements of a market economy, which is important, because the economy is based not only on quantity but also on quality. Thank you very much for listening, honourable Members.
u2015-04-28-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, continues the keynote speech of the MSZP Group.
u2015-04-28-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about training, public education, vocational training, any kind of training, it's about the future, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Obviously, this responsibility must also be addressed. Of course, it must also be considered that you have been ruling for five years, and what have you done in these five: is there any added value to the story, or has it been taken from it? There's a lot of numbers to line up, and I'm afraid I have to say that it would be a lot of disappointment if I started this now. Many disappointments, because there have not been progress in the resources available, but in the last five years. A positive picture can be shown for some years, but unfortunately, in global terms for the five years behind us, it was not important for you what is important for the nation, for the people of the country: tomorrow, the future. The future of our children will also determine our future existence, because even when today's generation, who is pushing the school benches, will shift towards the economy in 10-15 years' time, it is apparent that this country will be in a situation based on demographic, other aspects, and thanks to you, which is accompanied by the creation of hundreds of thousands of young economic refugees, which have been thanks to you, citing it, that it will be very difficult to provide for the generations that are in front of us. Now, I have said this introduction only because I believe that this responsibility must be touched by all of us, but especially by you who govern these questions. It is necessary not only to transform systems and structures, but also to provide basic conditions. I mentioned one of the basic conditions, obviously the existence of the source, the provision of the source. I believe that there is not much more important area than that. I mean, first in primary education, then at any level of vocational training or/or public education, sufficient resources are available for appropriate quality training. If you are talking about vocational training, Mr Secretary of State Czomba, and it is about the fact that there are 300 to 400 thousand people in general not for a given year, but, let's say, a decade-long time horizon among the unemployed, job seekers, and, of course, at the same time, 50 to 60 thousand jobs available every month, then I have to add two additional points to this. One is that it is also important to know that these posts are not, of course, where, on the employment side, the opportunities are given by the employee. On the other hand, it is also important to know that mobility in Hungary is not what we want or should be, but there are many kinds of barriers, limitations and few tools to help. Because it doesn't matter if Mr. Secretary of State used the word this way, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, but I can tell you that someone in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County wants to work, but the possibility is given only in Győr-Moson-Sopron, so his real estates are not so easy to sell, and in the other county to acquire new real estate, because the parities are not very much present in this regard. Now, there are some restrictive factors here that need to be addressed or addressed. And, of course, there is another thing that I think needs to be learned in the labour market for the employer. And the point is that if we want to get a good skilled worker, we want to get any employer, any reliable, professionally qualified worker, we have to pay for it. You have to pay! You know, not with the Prime Minister putting the minimum wage up in the mouth, while the minimum wage is still worth five thousand forints less in purchasing power than it was in 2010. It's not motivation. [[Interjection from the ranks of the ruling party.]] It's not motivation! You know what purchasing power is, Congressman? Whatever it's worth. As much as I can buy for it if I go into the store. The HUF 60 200 that came into your hands in 2010 plus HUF 68 750 that is now in hand is the difference between 18 percent inflation in these five years, as a result that HUF 68 750 is worth 55 thousand. It's that simple, I only told you so that there would be a way to memorize and forward it to others. That's how life works, unfortunately. As money progresses over time, it seems that if there are years when it does not inflame much, it has inflected 18% overall over the last five years. However, in line with the professional issue, adapted to the vocational training system: I think that there are good ideas in these draft laws, although I think only to discover them in its trace elements, but there are some. There are, say, in terms of the vocational training contribution, callability, accessibility, access to these resources not necessarily and only through tender, which I personally consider to be good. I also think it is good that, if you want to further strengthen the process that has not started in these five years, no, I am talking about the issue of student contracts; there are decades behind us, and I can reach back for a decade and a half, personally, when intensive processes have started within the Chamber's framework, intensive processes have started within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to ensure that the number of student contracts is as high as possible. Well, it is a good idea when we talk about the right to have an apprenticeship in terms of adult education, I just want to point out to Mr Secretary of State that this obviously also requires a specific treatment naturally, so that we also need to pay attention to this, not only at the level of revelation, we need to do this in order to be able to say something statistically. It is just as good as an increase in the age limit from 21 to 25 in terms of participation in day training. My only request with great respect is that they do not do this so that they can show on the other side of the statistics that the number of unemployed people and jobseekers in the 15 and 24 age groups is decreasing, but that they are doing it because they are serious about it, and we are serious about the fact that we want to achieve it with the highest possible level of knowledge, the more qualified, if I may say, that my fellow Member, Vinnai, said so in the service of the economy, yes, also in the service of the economy, but not only in the service of the economy. This story is more complex, in the service of the economy, for our own livelihood, for our well-being, for social peace and much more. [[11.40]] What I would like to say is that the existence of usable knowledge is obviously essential for a man to earn a decent income, but useful knowledge also needs to be available for vocational training. You know, when there are no 2 percent of employers in Hungary in the employers' sector, within the SME sector, who are practically involved in the provision of apprenticeships and practical training places, this should also have a motivational background. Of course, this would obviously require a strong economy, not only in public employment, but also at the level of jobs producing tax forints in the economy, and businesses who can gain a strong position will be able to provide practical training places within the framework of such apprenticeships. The government should be encouraged to create as many of these practical training places as possible, not based on l'art pour l'art, but with real content, which really provides young people with practical training places that fit and can be used for the service of the economy. Maybe I'd like to say two more thoughts. One is that all the modifications you make can be approached in many ways. On one side, they say I'm not necessarily just a mess, what they're doing is a mess, what they're doing, and you're saying it's a setup and an upgrade. You know, when it comes to reorganizing 500 institutions between the KLIK, the famous KLIK - and I don't have to talk about it in detail, the Klebelsberg Institutional Provider - and the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, which is now being established, then, when you see so little of the internal content of this reorganization, what will be between relationships, responsibility and much more, when the training is practically being pushed out of the KLIK through this, I say that it will not be a non-functioning system, but I assume that there will be two systems that are no longer working, and you know that two systems that are not working are worth the same thing, it will only cause more damage than a system that is not working, so I would advise you to be careful in this regard as well. I think that we should not centralise in all respects, in many cases we would achieve a much better result if we were to decentralize. If the institutional structure, directly linked to the level of county authorities, county towns and municipalities, had been strengthened, it would have resulted in a much greater willingness, willingness and co-thinking of the functioning of the institutions than when there were such centralised situations. I would like to mention one more thing, the issue of deficit professions, which was touched by the Secretary of State with sufficient sensitivity, but I would also like to point out to you, but especially not to you, but to those who are watching us, so that you know that the process that has started with regard to deficit professions, namely that students, students who are taking such professional training, should be sufficiently motivated, has not evolved during the period of your governance. No! Rest in peace, we launched these processes during the ministry of Péter Kiss, where, in practice, a number of 5-12 professions were designated in terms of deficit trades and financed at such a level that, at the time, 6-8-10 years ago, a student who graduated from high quality was able to obtain 40-50 thousand forints of welfare. The point is not to raise this from 12 to 20, but to adapt it to the needs of the region. In all respects, I suggest that you have a source, not just the centralization of power, but the children. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the needs of the economy and the environment influence what they want to do. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-28-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the KDNP Group is Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-28-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, A law on public education and vocational training, dictated by the need for the development of the economy and for the development of vocational education and training, or an amendment to the law, is now being discussed by the Parliament in a rather unusual but welcome way. In 2010, when the second Orbán government started its operation, there was already a very intensive cooperation between the then State Secretary for Public Education, Education and Vocational Training, as it was clear to us that vocational training was an integral part of public education, as Secretary of State Judit Czunyiné Bertalan said, because of the training, training and education of underage young people in these institutions. However, in my view, the two apparatus now, by cooperating, in an exemplary manner, with many months of hard work, in a procedure that we do not get used to, but it is to be welcomed, has put on the table at the same time two amendments to the law which are organically linked, one in the presentation of the Minister of National Economy and the other in the presentation of the Minister of Education, but in both, in essence, the same changes, only one in the traditional system of public education and the other in vocational training. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the changes contained in the two laws are, to a large extent, temporal and structural or naming changes. I couldn't help but notice how the renaming of high schools is going to change. That's okay, I'll interpret it later. The vocational secondary schools, mentioned here by many as one of the most popular types of school, have actually performed the task that the vocational schools will perform in the future. This, to call it that, or to call it, is not, in our view, a matter of so much substance, we will need it more in the future... - obviously it will be the work of lower-level legislation. Here, I would just like to draw attention to the content requirements that will fill these schools with real life and help to achieve the objective that the legislator has set itself. However, I would warn against the term high school that has been mentioned here several times. If this shows nostalgia for the times in Klebelsberg and respect for the school system in Klebelsberg, then the Christian Democratic People's Party wholeheartedly supports the establishment of high schools. Yes, but in the school system in Klebelsberg, the high school was a high-quality grade, the surplus that all the high schools couldn't afford. The fundamental difference between high school and high school in Klebelsberg was that if a high school couldn't account for a high school with a decent education and a good quality, then he could teach the students through, give them an absolutarium, but only the high school had the right to graduate. That is why we would not be able to approve of the fact that the current high schools would automatically become high schools and vocational schools would become vocational schools. Stay in normal high schools, and we recommend that there should be high schools for consideration, that would be a rank, and would be in line with the qualification and supervision intention that opened the gates to the quality distinction in the 2011 Public Education Act. As far as vocational secondary schools are concerned, there has actually been the opportunity to obtain a technical degree after graduation, and this must also be completed with appropriate content, but it is also a matter of substance how vocational secondary schools will be able to prepare for a two-year graduation after three years of vocational education. [[11.50]] I stress that the 2011 Public Education Act has already established the basis for this, but it is not long enough for us to have experiential data on how this works. With all this, I would like to say that we must expect patience and calmness from the actors in the education system, parents, students and ourselves, politicians, whether it will be the vocational gymnasium or the vocational secondary school system that will bring results, both in terms of labour supply and quality learning. It is also a question of content that professional secondary schools, which will then work in a 3+2 year structure if they want to teach a profession in the first three years, will be able to teach foreign languages, for example. Because it's the 21st. The skilled worker of the 20th century is generally highly qualified and competitive in the international field. But in an international field, you can't survive without a foreign language. If the content issues happen to go in the direction - I hope they do not go in this direction - that there will be no or very little foreign language learning in the first three years of professional education, then this contradicts the knowledge of language psychology that it is even easier to learn a foreign language at this age than later. Besides, if we want everyone to get a high school diploma, as we have heard from Secretary of State Sándor Czomba, then in the second two years we have to learn foreign languages very intensively, and two, because this is what corresponds to the high school level. This was only one example, but I could give a list of examples that draw our attention to the problems of content, curriculum, subject matter or problems to be solved. I myself believe that in this new structure there is an opportunity for this new structure to respond adequately to the problems that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State quoted today. But that will only come out after answering the content questions. As an illustration of the previous, I would like to say that the 21st century is an illustration. In my view, the young worker of the century must be as lucky as the young man I was to meet more than twenty years ago in the Netherlands. It was a young skilled worker who studied dairy and operated a computer - driven dairy and cheese factory with his parents alone, where there were 80 cows, and every day, I don't know how many litres of milk and cheese - easily calculated - could do everything. He was perfectly communicating in two foreign languages besides his own mother tongue, his factory was clean, he answered all the questions professionally, he didn't have a university degree, he didn't have a college degree, he didn't have a high school diploma. That was a professional boy. This is XXI. They are skilled workers of the century; they are also in Hungary. Luckily, I know one of those things, like cattle and carpenters. But these young people must have the versatile skills and abilities to go to vocational schools, vocational schools, vocational schools, vocational schools today or tomorrow, that they must be very careful and not driven by passion or based on a single example. Well, several people have been involved here, and it is indeed a key issue in the transformation of vocational training, which aims to boost economic life, human resources, the teaching side, the teaching side. I do not see it as the speakers before me here have said that it would be an abuse of the teacher's field if we allowed those who could teach that profession without a pedagogical degree. Worldwide, there is a tendency to calculate practical knowledge into qualifications, and it is also a legitimate requirement that we do not allow any education among children without any level of basic education. But there are some dying professions - I could give you examples like this, but the secretary of state who sits across from me might tell me that he knows a lot more - where there is simply no instructor of this profession who has a university degree, but the profession would be needed, either because of Hungaricum or because of a new demand. To prevent us from saying - let me give you an example - that there should be cadaries again in Hungary because they do not have such educational qualifications, an otherwise high-quality and demanding, but somewhere bureaucratic, it would be a mistake if there were still an elderly master who likes children, who can speak Hungarian intelligently, who knows his profession, who can show them, and who can re-raise a generation that will carry on this profession, for example. But the question can also be solved in other ways; it is less advisable to retrain those who are now on the field and who have a pedagogical education. Anyone who has been, say, building walls or installing a computer for 20 years, who has to support his family, who has to earn money, who is a teacher on top of it, will no longer be able to learn the cadavership at a level like the one who has been practicing it for 20 years. Therefore, I would like to call on the makers of the future regulations to draw up the qualifications requirements in a very flexible manner, to open up separate paths to the possibility of instructors or master teachers, which bring back the kind of knowledge that has brought the Hungarian faculty to praise and praise all over Europe a lifetime ago. That's what's crumbled, what's gone, it's not gonna be brought back with college graduates from college benches, only with professionals who are skilled, handymen. Woodworkers in Transylvania, either educated or didn't learn a profession, but they understand the tree, love it, love their native language, and come here or stay home in Transylvania and build wonderful houses. Read The Witch of Funtineli, who may not have read it, how that forest man was able to build a beautiful house of pure wood in which he could live; another question is that there were tragic lives in that house. So let's not be bureaucrats. While the quality should be kept in mind, and the diploma is a guarantee of some kind, but if there is no teacher with such qualifications, the profession will die out. I would like to remind you of the story that was six to eight years ago, which is more or less effective when it comes to qualifying primary art schools. It turns out that many music or art teachers in primary art schools have no education. And many of these were students of gold medalist, silver medalist, bronze medalist, international competitions and were praised for their dance, music, and others. A lot of these teachers have had their feet covered because they don't have a pedagogical degree. In the professions, in practical life - such as sports and art - performance must be learned somewhere, and there must be no mistake in bringing up generations of gold medals, either in the profession, in sports or in art, due to a lack of a diploma, while representing a great value. When I was a kid, I grew up in a town where, at that time, a violin was taught by a man who didn't have such a degree, was a warehousekeeper in a factory, but the disciples flocked to him, he couldn't do that much. He was taught by a woman who didn't have a degree, I tell you quietly, she didn't even have a graduation; they came to him to learn piano from the neighboring villages. And these people were organizing a band and a band, and they were organizing opera performances, and to this day, those who remember them - they're already in the ground - remember that music was of very high quality in this small town. [[12.00]] Before anyone accuses me, or tomorrow on the Index, I would like to read that I have spoken here in Parliament for non-graduate music teachers or teachers without qualifications, I would like to say that I think it is very important to have a professional degree, but the exceptions, if they have proved their way of life, their performance, are allowed into these trainings, because otherwise these professions are suffering enormous losses. Mr Secretary of State Czomba mentioned the issue of interoperability, which is an important aspect in all democratic systems, so that there are no closed roads. At the same time, interoperability and the programme for the school are often in conflict. Interoperability can never or will never be absolute, because then it would have to be taught according to such mutilated curricula, behind which the nature of the real school would be lost. Interoperability must always be understood as helping a student who wants to cross the school, who is able to make the efforts that exist between schools even if they teach according to the same curriculum, since customs and other teachers are different. I do not agree with the representatives of the MSZP on the classification of the Bridge programme. The Bridge programme is one of the great innovations of the laws created in 2011, and it is not a dead end at all, on the contrary, you just have to read the text and see what has happened so far. They're designed to avoid a dead end, offering children who would otherwise fall out of the school system. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Now, if only 40 out of 100 manage to grab hold of the Bridge program, sorry, it's a mechanical claim, because it doesn't count on the fact that the Bridge program doesn't usually involve children with the best skills and the greatest diligence, but very often people with serious teaching and learning difficulties, so it's not expected to be a 100% result. But to exaggerate, if 40 out of a hundred succeed, then this program has proven its worth. The fact that they are now taking it in two ways - we'll wait for this, I'm sure it'll be good for you to bring your results, but such temporary support programmes are needed just to help catch up and allow you to go on separate trips. I would like to highlight some of the issues that are obviously not to be answered here, and I would like to draw the attention of the future legislators and the staff of governance to this, which, of course, need to be thought out and answered with a great deal of discussion and reflection. Dual training in itself is good, I support it, it is necessary, because car repair must be learned not from textbooks, not in school benches, but from the car repair shop, and so on, house painting or any other profession. However, if we take most of the young people who study the profession into dual training, we will not be able to provide them with the other good, everyday physical education, because in the workshop, near the craftsmen, or where they are doing the exercises, there is no way for them to play sports every day; they may travel to the practical place. It is important to think about how to reconcile the two, because sport is as important in the lives of these young people who are developing as it is to learn the profession and be good craftsmen. A few words about vocational training centers. Mr. Secretary of State Czomba said that the VET law will settle it. That's comforting. You buy time, you get life. I think there's a lot of questions to think about here. But I can't help but mention that from the mouth of MSZP's educational politicians, I have almost embarrassingly repeated a sentence that the KLIK is not working. Dear Congresswoman, it's not inoperative. It started to work, but it's working, it's doing its job. I don't know, prove it once, I'm begging you, it's not working. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I didn't say it!]] Even if it's hard. And now to say that with a vocational training centre, there will be two of these inoperative institutions, I think, a political catch or an assumption that is not based on anything. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi is talking to Dóra Dúró.]] I'd like to ask you to think about it if theoretically, but only theoretically, you can decide... I see you all agree very well, I'm glad to hear that, but I'm just going to say it the way I see it. So if you consider that a large system, such as a school system, has to be managed somewhere by the state, which is responsible for ensuring that the school system operates at roughly the same level throughout the country, this should be entrusted to an organisation that is now quite decentralised, since the KLIK has also been redesigned. Think about how, with whom, how, because the municipal system has failed, that's not good. So, the Christian Democratic People's Party's Party's view is that there is a need for a level of governance, of course, in the changed vocational training that we should call vocational training centres, but then, when establishing the detailed rules, make sure that this avoids the difficulties in operation from which all players have learned enough in the case of the KLIK, which is still working and fulfilling their profession, even if there are or there have been problems. We welcome the following in the new laws. It means you can start a day-to-day education until you're 25. Very well, it provides opportunities for young people who get to their senses late, or their lives turned out not to be able to go to school in time. We wholeheartedly welcome the fact that two professions can be obtained free of charge. This will also provide a great deal of help to poor children, and we also know that the 21st century will help them. In the first century, one profession is much harder to deal with than two. And those who have already won two, which is why they didn't have to pay tuition fees, there was an easier way to learn, which is essential, because very few people without learning will be able to hit graduations and the self - education that will result in young skilled workers whose pictures I have tried to sketch. We welcome the supported language training, as without foreign language knowledge, the skilled worker is slowly unable to manage. We welcome the institution of module final exams, as our whole life goes through testing, and professional training is also closed by a large exam. The more a young person undergoes such ordeals, the more easily he takes the difficulties or tasks of the exams ahead of him during his life. We welcome the restoration of the practical leader, as you cannot learn a profession without a good craftsman, a good practical instructor. Of course, I could read from the textbook to young chefs how to make Wellington's colon, but it's much better if I can show them, because they can taste it, and so on. We welcome the time-limit of the bill, the fact that it is not rushing, the renaming of the secondary level of vocational training on 1 September 2016; and we welcome the determined intention of the whole law to bring the Hungarian vocational training back to the level of economic activity. I repeat, I partly referred to the lack of recognition of the knowledge acquired from the law outside the school system; this is also included in the rules currently in force. Let's not be so full of school system. Anyone who has learned something in life, in practice, the use of it is very difficult to solve, of course, but let's channel it into the school system. The fact that Hungary will organise the international competition of skilled workers, which will also be good for drawing the attention of the public, parents, students and the political department to the importance and success of professional learning, puts a point or exclamation mark on the actuality, purpose and results of all this legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2015-04-28-38	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró is the next speaker, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Vocational training in the service of the economy, this is the title of the government's concept, referred to by the Secretary of State, but I think it would be much luckier, and the right vision would be to put vocational training in the service of children's well-being by the state and the government. It is possible to argue about the overlap between the two, but I think it is a fundamental difference in perspective that we cannot go without saying a word. Therefore, I would like to devote my speech to following the changes from the point of view of the children, and I would also like to share with you my experience in my recent visits to vocational schools, as well as the experiences of discussions with institutional leaders and educators. In the last two months, I visited schools in vocational training in several parts of the country, I visited Tapolca, Győr, Pécs, Szeged, Debrecen, Miskolc and Budapest, so I had the pleasure of talking to the leaders and teachers of schools offering a wide range of training spectrum. What can also be said about vocational training, which is extremely typical of the whole education system, is that there are huge differences between regions, and the attitude of entry children, parents and educators is quite different from that of vocational training in Győr, as in the case of vocational training in Miskolc. To clarify this difference, I would like to share with you the experience of one of the teachers, who was a teacher in a vocational school for three years. He regularly held parent - parent meetings, reception sessions, but in the three years of his 28 - person class, there were five children who had ever met their parents. So if two or three parents from a 28 - year - old class showed up at a parent's meeting, that was a good thing, but there was also a time when the parent's meeting in the vocational school was cancelled due to the lack of interest of any parent. A specialized school in Miskolc has a family background like this. We also know from national surveys that 75 percent of children entering vocational training, i.e. three-quarters of them, are at the lowest level of measurement. The Secretary of State rightly said that vocational training should not, in principle, be responsible for filling the disadvantages and shortcomings acquired in primary education, but it should be faced with the fact that such children are currently entering vocational schools. This is the case, this is the fact, and we do not see the assurance that this will change fundamentally in the future, in the near future. This is a huge problem, because it can be said that this is not the job of a vocational school, yet in order to carry out its own task, it has to deal with the children's fallout, and it has to be taught to read and write. This is what vocational schools currently suffer from, and they try to deal with these situations in different ways. Besides, we cannot go without saying that the study of Lajos Aáry, Commissioner for Education Rights, shows that the highest rate of school violence in vocational training is the highest. Out of all types of institutions, vocational training is where the highest rate of school violence is committed by children both against each other and against teachers. These are the qualities of vocational training that we should definitely face at present. Bridge programmes and the importance of catching up are important components of vocational training, since, as has been said here several times, children with poorer fates are indeed included here. What about the Bridge Programs? I'm gonna have to make a more detailed detour. We know that the dropout in vocational training is 33 percent, so every third child falls out over the years, doesn't finish his studies. In the case of disadvantaged children, this percentage is 50 percent, so half of the disadvantaged children are out of vocational training. To remedy this, or to prevent early school leaving, the previous Orbán government created the Bridge programmes to catch up with those children - exactly listed in the law, I would not quote - who either don't finish primary school or get admission to any secondary school. I asked the president of the KLIK about the effectiveness of the Bridge program, how much dropout there, how many unverified hours the students had accumulated, and I had to face terrible data. In the Bridge programme itself, the drop-off was 40 percent over a year, so it can be said that on the road to vocational training there is even more drop-off than in vocational training itself. I believe that this data alone shows that this programme will not be able to reduce or prevent drop-out in vocational training. The uncertified missed hours and all missed hours show hundreds of thousands of times, so in one year, in the ten-month training, more than 120 thousand children missed unverified in the classes of the Bridge program. I think these are terrifying numbers, and they show that the Bridge Programme in this form is not fit to function as a real catch-up. What is your answer, or what is the answer to this bill? That the teacher will receive a salary supplement if at least 70 per cent of the first class of the Bridge programme goes to the second grade. So if you kick the kids over, if you do statistical cosmetic work, the teacher will get a salary supplement. I think that working with children entering the Bridge programme should in itself make the teacher entitled to receive a salary supplement, since children come here from a family environment that is perceived by the former Miskolc example that parents do not provide the most basic, elementary level of communication with the school. The solution to this is not to give the teacher a salary supplement if he kicks the children to the upper grade and even gives them the better grade, the 2 if the children are inadequate on the basis of their level of knowledge. It masks reality. The 40% dropout in statistics may decrease to 29 percent, possibly, but the level of knowledge of children will not change in itself, and we will not see the reality, because the teacher will also be interested financially in kicking children over even if their level of knowledge is inadequate. Education of public knowledge is also a key issue - I see this as a key issue against the Secretary of State - which we cannot go without saying, because the level of knowledge of entry children is what I have just said, but the situation in the Bridge programmes is even worse. The fact that you have reduced your previous vocational education from four to three years, while at the same time reducing the share of public knowledge, I think it was a mistake and it goes against what Rózsa Hoffmann said earlier to prepare the children to adapt to the changed circumstances in their lives. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, a worker, a skilled worker, needed to be able to train himself during his life, and if we cannot provide the proper foundations for this with the help of public knowledge, he will not be able to do so. You can talk about lifelong learning and about giving careers to skilled workers and vocational schools, and now you're in vocational high school, it's just not realistic that a child who gets into vocational training without being able to write or read, doesn't even talk about counting, he's going to learn a profession in three years, and he's going to make up for his fall from primary school, and he's going to find his motivation to graduate, and he's going to have a tech degree later on. That is why I believe that the reduction in the proportion of public knowledge and also the entry of everyday physical education have further reduced the number of objects that would be needed to talk about successful professional workers who are able to stand in their place in life. [[12.20]] With regard to dual training, I believe that this differentiation, which is unfortunately present in the country, should be done much more. Obviously, due to the presence of the automotive industry in Győr, dual vocational training is already operational. I've visited several schools myself, I've talked to educators, institutional managers, where Audi takes part in the training. There's no problem here. However, in Miskolc, where 90 percent of children going to a given school, say disadvantaged, come from a family environment where they can't even use cutlery, and parents have not raised children for any work, the success of dual training is highly questionable. It's very questionable, in many ways. I mean, there's a lot riding on the company's attitude, too. I think that in any vocational training, neither the school nor the company will be able to replace the family background. Nor does this proposal do anything to involve parents in the education and education of the child. It is a key question whether parents encourage children at home. If you are not encouraged, you will not succeed, you will not be able to finish the school successfully. It will crumble if it does not bring the view from home that it would be necessary to train him to work, to make a living from decent work. The fact that 90 percent of parents in a school do not cooperate with the educational institution at all, let alone with the company operating as a training place, training place, I believe that it makes it extremely difficult and challenging the success of dual training. The system structure of the management of vocational training is the next topic that I need to talk about and the establishment of vocational training centres. The fact that the KLIK itself does not work in vocational training is absolutely clear to all of us. If it worked out right, then obviously there wouldn't be a need to get it out of there and get it to another maintenance guy. However, the KLIK's problem was not that it has so far been under the EMMI, and now it will no longer solve these governance problems by being part of the NGM, in the event that they will not change their powers. The restriction of the number of vocational training centres, the possibility of operating the three vocational training centres per county and up to ten vocational training centres in Budapest, will result in centralisation in several counties. There are five counties where there are currently more tithes than three, and in these counties this will result in further centralization. So the decisions will be further away from the local level, away from the children, away from the institutions. This is a huge problem, because this centralisation is basically a waste of vocational training, so schools alone will no longer be interested, just as they are not interested in encouraging themselves to generate revenues and operate economically. In one of the schools where I was, the principal told me that they calculated how much the school in the old system cost to the state, and how much it costs now, during the maintenance change, under the KLIK, to the state. He said there was a big difference, that the system was much more uneconomical. Several school directors complained that now there is no incentive for them to generate revenue, as their income goes into a common hat, which they cannot then trace, how much they will get back from it, and, where appropriate, other schools that are at some level competing with each other, whether they can help each other out. I think it is not a good approach to further centralising the system; it is not a good view that the economic autonomy of schools will not return to any extent. In addition, the lack of resources has remained stable in vocational training. The difficulty of purchasing assets has become commonplace not only because of the operation of the KLIK, but also because there have been quite a lot of applications from vocational schools that have been rejected because of lack of funds. There is also an extraordinary degree of disproportion. It should be said that practically in the education system the sources of tenders are used for day-to-day operation, and the sources of tenders are recorded as a normal source by schools, which should be extraordinary, plus resources. I've been to vocational schools where there hasn't been an exchange of windows in fifty years, I've seen an amazing decay in the building of the school, but the latest, state-of-the-art technology is available in tools and tools for teaching professional objects. These are imbalances that are present in vocational training in everyday life, although they should not be present. I do not mind, of course, that professional schools work with modern technology, although one of the head of institutions complained that they work with the most modern technology, but this technique is not found anywhere in the surrounding companies, so they teach children this modern technique, but then they get out of life and they can't apply it to companies. Companies also teach children how to use the technology present with them, which is not yet so modern, because the equipment of schools is not in line with the equipment of the companies. The fact that the sources of tender are therefore recorded as a normal source and that practically keeps vocational training alive is a very serious mistake. If the state does not add adequate funding and companies do not encourage them to reach into their pockets and approach the children with a firm, proper attitude, then vocational training will not be successful. Of course, it is the fault of the entire education system that the lack of money characterizes it to such an extent that one can tell terrible stories about it. I believe that the problem in adult education is to reduce non-state maintenance. I am well aware that there has been a great deal of abuse in adult education over the last decades, and I also acknowledge that there are elements of this proposal that can, at least, help to filter it out so that it can be reduced and removed. At the same time, I feel that it is too restrictive to regulate for non-state maintainers, leaving virtually a framework for their participation in adult education. I believe that if there has been an abuse of adult education by non-state maintainers, then foundations that have abused the law must be punished, but children should not be poured out along with bathing water. So there are non-state maintainers that also represent value in adult education. Therefore, it is not the maintenance alone that guarantees that the participants in adult education receive good, decent training, but that the rules should be consistently respected. Therefore, I do not think that there is a need to limit the number of people in adult education to such a degree as to distinguish between non-state maintainers. [[Attila Móring József takes over his notary seat.]] The biggest problem in all vocational education and training remains that the children who come in will come with a background of knowledge that will be corrected, and that gaps will continue to be covered by vocational schools and secondary vocational schools. I would like to talk here about renaming, which might help to increase the prestige of vocational training. However, it can be seen that over the past 25 years, there has been a very large downswing of what kind of children have applied here. Several institutional leaders said that there were still regular children around the regime change, whose primary school averages were 3, 4 or even excellent students, but this is much less typical today. A lot of people use vocational schools as a quasi-sleeping method to complete the age of compulsory education. They do not have any motivation to acquire any qualifications there, but to try to spend some time until the school age is reached. There are very important discipline problems in these schools, and teachers are unwitting to maintain order in these classes. [[12.30]] It is therefore important that children who cannot or do not want to fit into these classes should be treated in some way by teachers, but they do not have any means to do so. Here I must refer back to how important it would be for these children to learn public knowledge in a larger number of hours. The fact that they do not have basic competences is an extraordinary challenge for other children and teachers, not to mention practical instructors and trainers. A discussion can be held on whether it is necessary to start a teacher's degree or some pedagogical training on the part of instructors or instructors of professional subjects in the case of the education of professional subjects. On the one hand, however, it must be borne in mind that emigration has affected very seriously people who are able to create permanent jobs in some occupations, because they are much easier to find employment and work for higher salaries in Western Europe. It's a fact. On the other hand, the mistake of vocational education and training for the last 25 years is that there have been such disproportions in vocational training and in the case of skilled workers, which was also mentioned by the State Secretary. At the same time, some self-criticism should also be exercised by the government in this regard, as the Orbán government has led vocational training in the last five years, just as the whole country, and the reduction and elimination of disproportions has been barely achieved in the past five years. The presence of deficiency professions remains astonishing, and the disproportions and differences that exist in the case of market needs and vocational training are also your responsibility. In the last five years, vocational training has been transformed several times, the VET Act has been amended several times and these exceptional differences are still present in the system. Mr Secretary, you mentioned shop salesmen here, but in the last five years they have been able to react to this imbalance. So, in this sense, it is also your responsibility that vocational training is in the position we see it in right now. If we do not take into account the facts, that so many people are using vocational training as a bedrock to fill their formal age, but otherwise they have no motivation to finish that school, parents, as I mentioned in the Miskolc example, will not cooperate in any way with the school, then we will not be able to raise successful, qualified children from these children. So it is important that we touch parents on the one hand and that the parent cooperates with the school, attend parenting meetings, host hours, have the teacher at his disposal if he needs it and the level of motivation of the children should be increased. It is fair on the part of the Secretary of State that I believe that it is not the fault of vocational training that such children should be brought here, that reform of basic education is necessary in order to change this situation. That's one side of it, the elementary school page. At the same time, it should be added why vocational training is not attractive, let us say, to a child with a better ability. That question must also be asked. Here in the field of high schools, vocational schools, vocational schools, or now in the institutional system of changed names, very serious shifts can be detected. I don't think it's necessary to automate the fact that children with good abilities can only go to high school. I do not share the view that it is necessary to reduce the number of high school students, but at the same time to find opportunities to improve vocational training, and a capable child does not feel that vocational training is a dead end, he does not feel that he cannot fulfil his own skills in vocational training. So I started my speech by focusing on children's well-being, and I would like to finish with that. We should create vocational training where children with good abilities feel that they can thrive, have a vision for the future, can continue to learn, can influence their way of life flexibly in the future, because at 14 years, I think very few people can finally decide what they want to learn or what they want to do in their life, because they have very little information and obviously cannot do so because of their age. This is, of course, also related to the issue of career orientation. I therefore believe that vocational training can be successful if the children come here with motivation, basic knowledge; the comments of the companies are conscious, so they want to train the children in such a way that they can apply them themselves, they are interested in having a skilled workforce at their disposal for which they are willing to do, and they will train these children with honor, and then we can talk about the fact that vocational training can be attractive to a child with a good ability. By renaming the vocational school into a vocational high school and a vocational high school into a vocational high school, I think that in such a short period of time there will be an extraordinary disturbance in the minds. In addition, the name of the professional gymnasium is not particularly fortunate, as many people will confuse it with the system of high schools. So a lay parent who might help his child choose his career will not be able to understand the difference in such a short period of time, and this will not help to increase the level of vocational training later on, to increase the prestige of vocational training. It is questionable about the restructuring of the current projects, the tender funds that the European Union has put out for the Tisk, for example, how they will relate to the creation of vocational training centres, which will not even fully comply with the current tisk. This is one of the issues that should be asked in connection with the transfer and transfer, but it is a very important issue, since, as I mentioned, unfortunately, the proportion of funding in the education system is extremely high, and these actually cover the operating costs. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] Jobbik therefore believes that the focus should be on children's well-being in vocational training, and dual training is essential. So I would not want anyone to think that we are against the participation of the market or the various businesses in vocational training, no, on the contrary, only that state must provide child material, children with which these companies believe that it is worth investing in vocational training. We do not see the assurance of this. Nor do we see the assurance that the dropout will decrease, that the Bridge Programme, as I mentioned, cannot fulfil the purpose for which it was created, and therefore this whole system cannot succeed. Centralisation is denied, we want to strengthen the autonomy of the institutions. This is another point of view that we cannot agree with. We cannot therefore support this bill in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-40	Thank you, too. Now it's time for Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposals before us, according to the LMP, are being dealt with in an illegal way by Parliament, as their referral was illegal. Neither the concept of "Professional education in the service of the economy" nor the draft law has been discussed in society, although it would have been mandatory for the latter at least in accordance with the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws. Several organisations, including LMP, have attempted to obtain the concept through public interest data request, but the Ministry of National Economy has not even bothered to respond, which is also a violation of law. So, before the legislative proposal was tabled last Wednesday, no one was consulted, neither the VET college, trade unions, or employers' representatives saw the draft. We cannot call it a negotiation that the competition sphere and the monitoring committee of the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government have seen it. The follow-up meeting of the monitoring committee was quickly convened by the NGM last Friday to justify the proposal. [[12.40]] I would like to get right to the Chamber's exclusive influence in the formation of vocational training. In recent years, LMP has been concerned about László Parragh's lobbying activities as Chairman of the Chamber of Industry. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's trusted man, László Parragh has a strong influence on shaping processes. In addition to the Chamber of Industry, despite other chambers, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has gained an exclusive role. László Parragh and his large business community dictate the changes in vocational training, and this influence can also be seen in the present draft law. Even before the 2010 elections, the Chamber of Industry concluded an agreement with Fidess, which included the most important tasks ahead of Hungarian economic policy, such as the renewal of vocational training. As a result, in 2011 the government reduced the age of compulsory education to 16 years, with a uniform reduction of 4 and 5 years of vocational education and training, and a radical reduction in the number of public knowledge classes. In 2012, the agreement between the Government and the Chamber was confirmed in a joint declaration and the government undertook to adapt not only vocational but also adult education and higher education to its economic needs. The government's entire vocational training policy shows that it only meets the needs of certain economic interest groups, placing the entire vocational training under the interests of large corporate lobbyists. It is not even possible to say that the transformation of vocational training would be in the general interest of the economy. Education, including vocational training, must primarily serve the needs of society by satisfying not only its special needs but also its broad needs. All this through the training of future workers who can cope with changing conditions and adapt to changes in the labour market. Don't get me wrong. Chambers have an important role to play. Their task is of a professional, interest-representation nature, and this should not be confused with the exclusive influence on education policy. Speaking of training, chambers should not be in the field of vocational training, but in the field of adult education, and it would be important to turn them on as partners in government work. They see the immediate needs of the economy. If there is an immediate need somewhere, this needs for skilled workers can be met most effectively and quickly by adult education. This is possible if lifelong learning, re-skillability and the ability to learn independently can be truly mastered. Problems occur in vocational schools, but they don't occur there. It is an illusion to expect the success of vocational training based on the current eight-class primary school. Another serious issue is that after such basic training, a vocational school that focuses almost exclusively on the profession can succeed without graduation. In the absence of basic competences or basic skills, vocational training will be a dead end, as unfortunately today for tens of thousands of students leaving primary schools. Therefore, quality vocational training is needed. Successful vocational training is based on successful primary education. The Hungarian education system is still one of the most unfair education systems in the world, since the school system does not only compensate for the disadvantages from home, but also increases it. The socio-material situation of the place of residence or parents determines the performance and progress of children in school. In addition, the Hungarian primary school is extremely poor in developing skills and competences. This was the case before 2010, but the changes after 2010 only increased the problems. There is a huge need for reform of primary school education. We note that students will be enrolled in vocational schools after a strong 9-year initial education in Germany, cited as an example. In this situation, it is not the solution that was decided in 2011 to make vocational school training 3 years instead of 4 years old. It is also a serious mistake that public knowledge objects have been radically reduced to virtually nine public knowledge subjects 6 hours a week. Who couldn't or couldn't perform well in primary school, the question is what will happen to him if he learns Hungarian, mathematics, history, geography, physics, chemistry, biology, IT, foreign language. Without this basic knowledge-civilisation knowledge, professional training cannot be successful. Anyone who can't read or write or understand texts can't learn a profession. For example, if you cannot use basic mathematical operations, you cannot be a good carpenter. In addition, in today's world, who is a carpenter today, tomorrow may not be. The world has changed enormously, the economy is constantly changing, the knowledge that exists today can become obsolete by tomorrow, so flexibility and adaptability are needed. It is also the job of vocational training to prepare you for these changes, who are in a situation that can easily be retrained. Similarly, in order to remain in a workplace, there is a need for independent and collective work, discipline and advanced social and communication competences. Without the development of public knowledge, civilizational knowledge and skills, this will not work. A strong initial education and graduation is therefore essential. We can only talk about dual training if these conditions are met. There is no problem with dual training in itself: linking theoretical and practical training really helps young people to gain practical knowledge and to get to know real work processes. The problem is that it is only possible to build practical training on young people with the necessary basic skills and competences. It does not work, which was introduced from September 2012 to conclude an apprenticeship from the 9th grade. 14-year-old children came to the companies, not least without professional but basic knowledge and skills. This is not the way to introduce dual training; simply the conditions of Hungarian dual training are not yet available. If we are not talking about large companies, such as large car manufacturers, which are now almost alone in their ability to maintain such workshops, but about Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, then it can be said that Hungary is still very far from building a successful dual training model on them. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have personal and material conditions for practical education, it is no coincidence that only 4 percent of them undertake such training. He doesn't have the personnel he needs, and he doesn't have the equipment park. A small and medium-sized enterprise today struggles to survive, cannot and does not want to deal with accepting apprentices. However, the government is pushing for internships in companies despite the fact that today, with the exception of the largest production companies, this is not real. We need well-equipped school workshops to provide students with general practical training rather than training them for part-time tasks. The proposal also has the wrong starting point for fewer skilled workers and therefore needs to be increased. I would forward, according to the LMP, it is not the number of skilled workers that needs to be increased, but the quality of training needs to be improved. We are also regularly hearing from Secretary of State Czomba that there is currently a shortage of skilled skilled workers, and indeed, the last time German companies complained that the lack of skilled workers is a major problem. From this, the government concludes that more skilled workers are needed. If you look at the composition of the unemployed, you can see that there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed people with skilled qualifications - quite a number. There are masses of people with evidence of professional work without work or work in non-skilled jobs. In most parts of the country, there is no job supply for some of the start-ups. The fact that there is both a shortage of skilled workers and a high number of skilled workers in the country shows that there is not a quantitative but a quality shortage of skilled workers. That is, not more skilled workers, but quality training. [[12.50]] It is not in the quality of training that the government is looking for the problem even when it talks about increasing the number of students in deficiency professions. The fact that it's a missing profession is difficult to interpret. It is impossible to predict for 4-6 years, based on economic projections on the labour market, how much is needed, what is lacking. That's impossible. Moreover, it is not true that students in the deficiency profession are more easily placed. In most parts of the country, people who are skilled in the field of shortages can't find employment, they have no wage advantage, they have the same chances as others in the labour market. It is not the lack of skills that increases the chance of a job, but the quality of skills. The question of school maintenance must also be addressed. The centralisation and centralisation policy in the field of education in recent years has also spared vocational training institutions. Local governments and settlements have lost their schools. The vocational training institutions were transferred to the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre both in their capacity and in their operation, with the exception of certain special institutions. Previously, Hungary had one of Europe's most extreme decentralised, fragmented schools, but with nationalisation it was possible to cross the other side of the horse. Basically, we went back to solving socialism when they wanted to run everything from the same center. The model, however, is that everything is dictated from Szalay Street or KLIK headquarters has failed. Over the past period, operational problems have been constantly identified, which has made education more difficult on a daily basis. The operation of the CLIK so far is a clear failure, it wastes resources, slows down and complicates administration, not solves, but generates problems. The KLIK may see the flaws and loosen up on the cramped centralization, but the question is what happens to vocational training institutions. According to the current draft, a new vocational training institutional structure will be set up, and the trainers will be transferred from KLIK to the Ministry of National Economy. They want to create so-called vocational training centres. These would be independent budgetary institutions. The new Directorate-General would include vocational education and training schools as organisational units. This will not only create new waterheads, but will only continue to function as a member institution, and will not regain their independence. Instead of further centralization, it would be more necessary to return vocational schools to local communities. Depending on the regional needs of a specific vocational training institution, this may also be a capital, district or county municipal level. It's not a good solution to get schools from the EMMI to the NGM. Vocational training is a special area, part of public education, but cannot be separated from employment policy. If you approach control now from employment policy rather than from public education, it will be half-sided as before. Although institutions may be in a better place than KLIK, this is not a real solution either. Indeed, the role of local communities as school-supporters should be restored, while, of course, the faulty system before 2010 should not be restored in this area either. From the outset, LMP considered the launch of bridge programmes to be a serious mistake. Students who have not been taught to read and write in eight years have not been able to successfully move on from primary school can not be caught up in a year, segmented. It needs to be developed and mentored, but not here and not like this, not in this form. The changes planned - the most important. 1. After three years of vocational training in vocational schools - future vocational school - two years of preparation for graduation will be introduced. This step is both cynical and delusional. It is an illusion to expect, after a failed primary school in the development of basic skills and three years of professional training deprived of public knowledge, that two years of education can successfully lead to graduation. Although it is a very important objective for all secondary school types to ensure graduation, it will not succeed in this way, in this form. 2. Rename school types. The current vocational school is converted into a vocational high school, a vocational high school into a vocational high school. The undisclosed aim of renaming is to increase prestige, but it is unfortunate to change the usual names. And it is not worth noting that substantial, reformable steps do not occur on the basis of the amendment either. At the same time, the name change is excellent for statistical magic. It is at risk that, for example, they want to counterbalance the possible reduction in the number of real high school seats. The intention to do so can be clearly seen from the draft law. 3. Together with a high school degree, they plan to issue vocational training at vocational schools and high schools. You can't expect a qualification from pre-graduation training. Although it is proposed to increase the professional training rate at the pre-graduation stage, these can only be basic professional knowledge, which cannot be awarded a OKJ degree. 4. Ensuring free first and second vocational training and removing the age limit for participation up to 21 years. These are positive steps, but there is a serious risk of amendment. If the vocational training part of pre-graduation training in vocational school were to qualify for vocational training, then this change would not be worth much already. Thus, the acquisition of a real profession would count as the second qualification after graduation. So it wouldn't really change for those in vocational school. 5. Rename bridge programmes, public education and training bridge programme. In addition to renaming, no substantive changes will be made. The fact that NGM will have greater influence on the Bridge programmes instead of EMMI does not change the fundamentally flawed concept that the government represents in relation to the academic catch-up. 6. Expansion of dual training. The problem is not the dual training alone, but the lack of conditions in Hungary. SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, are not prepared to receive students in terms of both personal and material conditions, only 4 percent of them operate practical training. 7. Easing the conditions for the use of educators. The LMP does not agree that the conditions relating to the use of teachers are mitigated. This also reflects the fact that the government only cares about the profession, not the pedagogy, although only the two can make vocational training successful together. And finally, what does LMP represent? The LMP represents a green vocational training model that reflects sustainable society and economic development issues. Vocational training is needed to enforce Article XXI. The needs of the green economy of the century. The foundations of the Hungarian eco-economy and labour market must be established. The training needs of new professions offered by alternative energy use and sustainable economic development should be enforced. We imagine vocational training that will prepare you for lifelong learning, where there will be no problems with re-training or further training if life requires it. Vocational training is not a dead end training, but, if it works well, it is a drummer for further education, and it is also a drummer for higher education. The LMP says that vocational training is not a lobby for entrepreneurs, it must serve the needs of society, not the ideas of the president of the Chamber of Industry. In conclusion, the government wishes to continue on the road to the dead end. They do not touch the basic problems of vocational training, the quality of training, the number of public knowledge objects, the high level of early school leaving, the overly centralized model of school maintenance. Reform of primary education is still delayed. They still won't restore schooling by the age of 18. There is still no agenda for ensuring the autonomy of schools. Instead, although positive steps are being taken, it is an illusion to expect meaningful results from these, since they want to build on a fundamentally flawed, failing foundation. This bill in its present form will be a promise that will never be fulfilled. Thank you for your attention. [[13.00]]
u2015-04-28-42	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Kónya in a maximum time frame of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps I should start by saying that real economic and industrial development really needs to provide real expertise to all young people, all working people. Today we see, for example, that there is no development in the chemical industry and that there is no investment because there is a shortage of school system learners, but there is only OKJ training. So we need to change that, too. We have now come to the point that not only in the labour market, we see a shortage of professionals, but also in our everyday lives, we also experience every day that there is a lack of professionals who can help us, where appropriate, to help us get along better. This amendment can finally trigger something in the field of vocational training and remove it from the hibernation era that has been in place 10-15 years ago, which in effect means that there is a huge shortage of professionals in the labour market today. At the same time, we all know that for a change, a development requires money. This amendment deals with how and how much a vocational training contribution should be paid in a number of areas, in many parts and in a large enough extent. However, we do not see or see the guarantee - unlike the practice of the last 10 to 15 years, where the vocational training contribution was not necessarily devoted to vocational training, but, where appropriate, it was used to fill the budget holes or to finance the public work programme - in this law, it is true that the paid vocational training contribution would in all cases and fully serve the development or completion of vocational training. Several speakers said that vocational training should be a provider of the economy. The international experience of dual training also shows that vocational training is effective and works well when participants in the world of work are involved in this, by which I mean trade unions and by which I mean employers' organisations; real employers' organisations, which in Hungary are called, for example, the National Association of Hungarian Industrialists or National Association of Enterprises, and not called László Parragh. Under the trade unions, we can even take the example in Germany, where trade unions are involved in vocational training by providing trade unions in collective agreements with the ability of trade unions and trade unions to represent students and their interests and rights in vocational training. There's no mention of that in the law. At the same time, we also see that it is not enough to provide vocational training in itself and to provide good quality vocational training, and it is also important to ensure normal working conditions and work for those who carry out vocational training. Today's example is that in the rubber factory in Dunaújváros, where the state supports the vocational training of the workers and the workers there, there is enormous fluctuations. We're practically throwing taxpayers' money out the window because we train people to get jobs there, start work there, and the working conditions are so bad, they leave their jobs after a week or two, a month or two. So the two have to work together, and we think it's essential. This also shows that it is important that not only vocational training, but also that there is a normal, meaningful dialogue with real partners in the world of work, and that this can be seen in its process and that energy and time spent on vocational training itself will be effective. Thank you. That's all I wanted to say.
u2015-04-28-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Erika Kissné Köles spokesperson for the next speaker. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani gospod predsednik! Cenjeni državni zbor! Mr President, Dear Parliament, The basic law adopted by the National Assembly on 18 April 2011, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, declares in the National Creed that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute factors of state. Hungary's basic law also establishes the right that primary education is free and compulsory for all Hungarian citizens, and secondary education is free and accessible to all. Act CLXXIX of 2011 on the Rights of Clans 12. According to § (1) of the Act, a person belonging to a nationality has the right to learn his or her mother tongue, to participate in public education, education and culture in his or her mother tongue; he or she also has the right to equal education, which the state is obliged to promote by effective measures. According to the above, the Hungarian Committee of Nationalities feels the duty and right of the government T/4476. CXC 2011 on national public education. Bill amending law and T/4475 by the Government. The 2011 CLXXXVII on Vocational Training Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education involvement in the negotiation of legislative proposals to amend law and related laws. In recent years and decades, we have to talk about the decline in the number of people belonging to nationalities who live in Hungary. At the same time, our natural need for these ethnic groups, many of which have lived for centuries in certain regions of Hungary, to survive in the same place in the centuries to come, preserving the language, culture, traditions and diversity of their nationalities, enriching the culture of Hungary, to which we belong by our right of citizenship, and by our emotional attachment and commitment we also undertake this fact. According to our nationality, we want to remain the value keepers and growthers of the ethnic group in which we belong because of our origin. Today, all 13 nationalities in Hungary - especially in the case of small ethnicities - have a huge role to play in preserving and perpetuating the language, culture of nationalities. In recent times, we have lost generations in some cases, including those who have become parents or parents in the near future. Their children must be traced back to their ethnic roots so that they become parents and become direct mediators of these values. For this reason, it is of the utmost importance for us what opportunity we can provide for the language or native language education of those belonging to nationality in today's Hungarian public education and vocational training. In the economic situation of our ethnic communities, we place a great role on the part of well-trained and well-known professionals, people who are able and able to work as employees of entrepreneurs coming from a given mother country to our country. Development of the vocational training institution system for vocational education and training submitted in 2011 for the purpose of a school system of competitive knowledge, in line with economic needs, CLXXXVII. The draft law amending the law also concerns the committee of nationalities in this respect. Our committee does not wish to supplement the proposal to reform the institutional system of vocational training, the proposal to contribute to vocational training and to support the development of training, as set out in the draft legislation which provides our students with medium-level and professional training in vocational education and training. [[13.10]] We would also like national education and education to take place in the institutions where the number of parents and students required to do so by law is set out in the new structures to ensure the acquisition of professional qualifications. Due to the similarity between the content of the draft laws on national public education and the present amendments to the VET Act, I will further express our committee's opinion along the lines of the bill amending the Public Education Act. T/4476. I add the following on behalf of our committee. The bill is 1. It provides for the name of the public tasks contained in the statutes and basic professional documents of the public education institution. From the list we miss the concept of ethnic pedagogical professional service. T/2085 by the Government of Hungary in the autumn of 2014. CXC 2011 on national public education. During the negotiation of the bill amending the Act, our committee indirectly called to the attention of the representatives of the submitting portfolio that it would be appropriate to provide educational professional services to nationalities in the case of educational and educational institutions. We have not been able to join the detailed debate on this amendment, and Parliament has not voted on our proposal. It was noted then that the amendment indicated was 5. In paragraph 2 of the Article, the possibility of using pedagogical professional services was not extended to the institutions maintained by the national minority authorities, as he said: "The educational and educational institution of state-reserved education uses pedagogical professional services from the office. In this way, the institutions maintained by the national minority authorities would remain without pedagogical professional services. National education and education institutions need pedagogical professional service providers, institutional and professional consultants and experts of the national educational professional service provider in view of the specific characteristics of nationality education. The specific features of nationality education are certainly more easily understood by national experts, and their sensitivity to problems in this area may be more sophisticated and relevant. Therefore, ethnic pedagogical professional service providers are explicitly required, so please refer to the amendment of the law in the list of basic tasks. The bill is 2. Section 3 of the Pedagogical Work in Public Education Institutions and Section 3 thereof. We do not wish to add any additions to the supplementary proposal of Section 3. Article 4 The concept of a vocational gymnasium and vocational education school included in the institutions of the public education system is clarified, and from this list I draw attention to the lack of an institution providing educational services in nationality. The bill is 6. The provisions of Section 2 of this Article relate to the planned changes in secondary education and education and, in particular, in the vocational training system. The introduction of the types of vocational education and training institutions in vocational education and training will take place in a coordinated manner from 1 September 2016. It is in our primary interest that this transformation does not have a negative impact on ethnic language education in high school practice. As regards these legislative proposals, our Commission requests that it be possible, in line with the new types of vocational secondary school tasks, to provide bilingual theoretical and practical training in secondary education and education institutions in accordance with the economic, social and labour market needs of the given region. For example, in the case of hospitality and tourism, and in the case of areas bordering the mother country, this option would be of particular importance for nationalities. We therefore need well-educated and well-spoken professionals, so it is essential that not only our children and our young people studying in high school have the opportunity to further develop their knowledge of ethnic language and culture in a bilingual institution in initial education. It will be useful to pay attention to this when drawing up the framework curricula. It should also be possible for students of nationality to work with ethnic language and popular knowledge in skills development schools, vocational secondary schools and bridge programmes. At the same time, it is important to pay attention to the fact that the development of student hours does not result in a loss of performance for our students due to clan language learning. As a secondary school student, I know that our students of both ethnic language and popular knowledge are very respectably taking on a serious extra task, and in many cases we would like to see them in the circles of cultural groups as well. Our aim and need to ensure that the Public Education Bridge Programme and the Vocational Training Bridge Programme are not overlooked in the competences of other ministries, so as to take account of the possible disadvantage arising from nationality, ensuring equal opportunities at all times, and social catch-up in defining the content elements of the Bridge programmes. With regard to the extension of the scope of multi-purpose institutions, the introduction of vocational training centres is of concern to the fact that the provision of vocational education and training institutions that are preferred by clients belonging to ethnic groups living in a concentrated area, i.e. parents, pupils and potential employers, in the area of ethnic education and education, may be at a disadvantage. Further points of the bill were not to be dealt with by our committee. LXXVII of 2013 on adult education In the case of amendments to the law, certain ethnic communities are affected by working outside the school system, since there is no institutionalised possibility of teaching the language of nationality, but there is an additional teaching of nationality. By doing so, they are affected by certain aspects of this amendment. We would like to study this in the course of a detailed debate. I would also like to ask you one more question, in particular, whether you can stay in vocational schools after the publication of the Deputy Chief of Professional Education. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala za posornost!
u2015-04-28-46	Thank you, too, for the voice expressed by the spokeswoman. Before we continue our work, allow me, on your behalf, to greet the students and teachers from Kistelek and Szentgotthárd with respect and friendship. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, Now the work will continue with a two-minute speech: Mr László Kiss, MSZP. Here. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]]
u2015-04-28-47	Thank you very much for the floor. As a teacher, I am happy to see a child or two at least in this work, because sometimes you cry back at the times when you deal with children. This is also a very important question, because we need to talk about two ancient sins that you have committed. One is the reduction of school obligations from the age of 18, which is also very interesting because the number of school leavers, although you were hoping to reduce them quite simply by not letting these children into schools, has increased significantly. So much so that in the vocational training that we are talking about, the number of people who left it decreased by nine percent as enrollers. Demographic data would justify 3-4 percent, with a significant increase in school leaving. It is this prehistoric sin that is absolutely important to note, and it is this prehistoric sin that you do not face to this day, and this proposal does not reduce that. Of course, statistical data can carry a lot of things, we know the statistics you create, but this is important, this is the KSH I was talking about here, so you can't actually accuse us of throwing data from the air here. In addition to reducing the obligation to teach, it is, in fact, that you have completely driven the theoretical, public knowledge lessons out of vocational training. Agnes Kunhalmi told me about this. [[13.20]] Basically, it can be said that today, in vocational training, children learn nothing from your master plan and learn nothing; this is something to be faced with. So when you talk about the quality of vocational training, you talk about the fact that, according to the framework curriculum adopted by you, for example, the subject called mathematics is not in the third grade of vocational training. If this is your quality, then I don't know what it is, but then we don't mean the same thing in terms of quality. Thank you.
u2015-04-28-48	Congressman Vinnai, Fidesz!
u2015-04-28-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. László Kiss made me say something about ancient sins. I didn't want to point backwards at the origins of ancient sins, because he's not the one who tells me what ancient sins have been created here. I would like to say that if we were having a professional debate, which was an example, because I felt the desire to improve the system, whether in the comments of Ágnes Kunhalmi or Dóra Dúró, of course, that everything, let us say, is being sewed around the neck of education, and Madam President, Dóra Dúró said that the motivation is missing and that there is a need for high quality vocational training, which is exactly what this bill wants to make this vocational training system more attractive. We also know that we are aware of the skills and basic training they come here with, which is, of course, a very important feedback for parents, because if the prestige of vocational training grows, they prefer to give their children to the vocational training institution and somehow make a better living. So I would like to say that I felt that there were three kinds of comments. Some approached him professionally - I mean, on the opposition's side - in the end, he gave his political opinion, but he tried it in a professional robe, and some of them teased on their own initiative, say, at Nándor Gúr, this hundreds of thousands of refugees we would have driven away from here. I don't know if you know that they're making a serious decision, and they don't always go away for good, and they don't always work abroad in their own field. And I would also like to say, my fellow Member, that unemployment - as I agree with, say, Sándor Czomba - is the best cure for skilled labour, a skilled workforce [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which may also be a bit territorially managed by vocational training centres. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-28-50	Thank you. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik.
u2015-04-28-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would say to my fellow MSZP Member that the age limit for compulsory education does not in itself mean anything. Raising the age of compulsory education by the age of 18 does not give students any greater motivation and should be achieved, but raising the age of compulsory education alone is not the solution. In addition, if, after three years, a child can get a job in a vocational school and otherwise get a job, he can leave the labour market at the age of 17. In this sense, it is completely unnecessary to keep it in the system until the age of 18 if it has already acquired a marketable profession at the age of 17, and therefore it is unprofessional to propose it to the age of 18 years. I would also like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Vinnai. I do not expect the vocational school or any educational institution to fill the parental, family background gap, this is not the job of the educator, but at the same time it could help parents cooperate with the school. I have mentioned a specific example, the case in Miskolc, but unfortunately this is common in several schools in that area, and in this respect I see no progress in this proposal that the cooperation of parents, either in an uncertified manner or in a way similar to the sanctioning of unauthorized omissions, would be corrected by this proposal, and no progress will be made. And what makes this vocational training attractive for children with better abilities is still not what I see, and there is absolutely no progress in this direction in this proposal. Thank you.
u2015-04-28-52	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the speakers announced in advance. Mr László Kucsák is the next speaker, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-53	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests in the gallery! Those who have been monitoring the up-to-date polemia and debate may remember that it was almost three hours ago that my Győző Vinnai colleague indicated that I would also comment on the approach to the Public Education Act. This moment has come, even though it is not necessarily historical, but I would like to take advantage of it, and thank you very much for your attention. On the draft VET and national public education law before us, many have already said, Madam State Secretary, Secretary of State and several speakers before me, but I think it is important to highlight the following things and to recommend them again. Therefore, the main reason for this government proposal is the placing of vocational training institutions under the control of the Ministry of National Economy and the establishment of vocational training centres. This changes the name and structure of the types of vocational training - 5-6 grade secondary school, 5 grade secondary school, vocational school - and the Bridge programmes are divided into public education and vocational training programmes, and the rules on qualification standards are amended in the context of the previous changes. The standards for class and group numbers and the level of additional practical education for managers are being corrected. Some of these may be allowed to speak in a thought. The introduction of the types of vocational education and training institutions in vocational education and training will take place in a coordinated manner from 1 September 2016. So what we have here, as a concern, is still a long year, a long year ahead of us, and I think that in cooperation we can do very serious work. What is the purpose of this package of proposals? Its aim is to allow young people of the future to study in a renewed secondary school system and to prepare for a graduation exam not only for vocational schools but also for students of the new vocational school system, which is currently replacing a 3 year vocational school system. That's what a lot of people told me, but let me stop here for a second. I, too, think that, just from the data, not today, not yesterday, the day before yesterday, or even much older, the extent of the dropout, how this is divided geographically, how it is divided into training areas, on the basis of these data, it is a very important effort that is included here in the proposal before us to offer opportunities, new directions, new ways for young people. Furthermore, the proposal changes the nature of the Bridge programmes, as has already been said by others, the nature and operation of the Bridge programmes, as it divides them into public education and training bridge programmes and thus allows each type to focus more on its specific activities. I would also like to stop here for a moment, just because she mentioned this in her speech as a keynote speaker and the data quoted in relation to the Bridge programmes. I am not questioning them now, but recalling that if you say that there is about 40 percent drop-off - if I quote correctly what you said - and 60 percent progress, then I also think that the one approach question is that 40 percent is a problem, or we say that in this way we could help 60 percent students, 60 percent young people, a youth from a completely different dip circle. I think this is an important achievement. Each person is important, and if there are 60 percent, then this 60 percent is certainly worth mentioning. Of course, the ambition must be to allow those involved in the Bridge programmes to move forward in this programme as fully as possible. I have quoted what I have heard from the congresswoman, and she will, of course, make an amendment if she does not mean what she has to say in this way. To go further: the proposal increases the opportunities for young people who are involved in the vocational training system in accordance with the working schedule of day education and raises the ceiling for 25 years. Rózsa Hoffmann mentioned this, and I think it is a very good effort. [[13.30]] This proposal introduces the vocational training centre and vocational training centres in the current multi-purpose public education institutional area. This institutional form will maintain vocational education and training schools as departments of the vocational training centre as a budgetary body. Let me also make an addition here; Dóra Dúró mentioned that in one county, for example, during his personal travel, he received a signal or feedback that the number of planned vocational training centres would be less than the number of tis currently present. If, according to my information, we are based on the current Tiszkek currently operating across the country - those currently operating, not the number of departures, which are still in operation - this is an item between 30-40, then I can say that according to the information at my disposal, the number of vocational training centres planned nationally would not be less than that. So, overall, I believe that the circumstance you mentioned is not up. We may have been working on this from another information base. Moving on: it will be possible, and this has already been mentioned, so that the student can repeat the school grade already completed in order to choose another profession. I think that's a positive effort, too. The qualifications and qualifications requirements of the National Public Education Act for the completion of the pedagogical work linked to the specific pedagogical stages are also changed in the context of the new types of vocational secondary school tasks, and the practical position of head of education is also reflected in vocational education schools. Here, I would like to remind you of what the secretary of state said in the expoze in relation to the position, number and age of the instructors. I don't want to repeat myself this time. Let me also mention the fact, also from the point of view of the national public education law, which is not organically related to the vocational training proposal, but is important, and this is the fact that it will change the name of the ethical subject introduced in the system of 1-8 years of public schools to the subject of ethics starting from 1 September 2016. I would just like to remind you once again that in the previous term there was a discussion at the committee meeting and perhaps between the walls of Parliament, we have repeatedly explained, myself, that we consider this to be the right thing to do. The opposite opinion has not been expressed here, so I believe that there will be no difference of opinion. Let me mention one or two more things. I pointed out at the outset that I would like to point out to everyone that the problem is the amount of problems that we need to solve and deal with, not today, not yesterday, not the day before yesterday. We can remember that in times around the regime change, even before, but even after the change of regime, there were more kickbacks, you can see, and you can only hear what it would be useful to do with vocational training in order to find a way to match the content of the training and the possibility of working and the motivation of the young person. In this variety of endeavors and experiments, we can hardly bring up anything that could have achieved this goal together. So we had to rethink this issue in any way. I think that with this proposal, which not only renames certain institutions, but also renews its internal content, we can offer young people new opportunities and thus create motivational incentives for as many as possible in this training system. Dóra Dúró once again mentioned in his speech that the title given by the creators, the authors of this material, as well as the professional training in the service of the economy, instead he or they are concerned about the welfare of the children. I think that this is an important thought, of course, and I share it, obviously it is important that the child, the young man, finds himself in a positive way in this process, also at this stage, but these two wordings, these two goals do not contradict each other, my rock-solid conviction. If you can get motivation in the child, in the young, and it can be linked, linked to being able to get into a profession, a profession that is expected, desired for the economy, and when you step out of this education and training system you can become an employee here in Hungary, then I think that in a fashionable way this win-win version can only win. So I don't feel any contradiction here. Exodus data is truly remarkable, thought-provoking, and we need to improve that. I believe that, based on this proposal, we can find a way together, thinking together and working together, so that we can improve this data, not because of improving data, because I did not believe in failure-free school during the communist period when it was announced, and I still do not believe in it. It is not in the form of cartoon data that we need to think about, but in making this content available to all young people, it can absorb it, incorporate it, and exploit it for its own well-being and for the benefit of the national economy. Let me mention one more thing, because I didn't sign in in two minutes and I don't really plan on doing that. I respect Dóra Dúró, even because he usually puts his thoughts in ways that I think are within the walls of Parliament. Therefore, if possible, I would like to ask that the children's materials and teachers kick the children's expressions over and try to avoid them. One of these has just been mentioned in the context of improving statistics. I do not think this is intentional, but perhaps it would be better if we avoided these, even because we know very well that the issue of education and education is an extremely complex, extremely important process for small people, young people and adults. Summa summarum, thanking you for your attention, I would like to say that I, myself, recommend to the honourable Members this package of proposals, discuss with them, with improvements, if necessary, let us take it further. I hope that there will be strong support for the issue that the government has put on its flag so that young people can find the best way to make progress within the framework of vocational training. This is in the interests of all of us who live here, and I hope that we can continue to live here and thrive here in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-28-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have an independent Member's speech. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs in a quarter-hour time frame. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I wasn't introduced by Winner Vinnai three hours ago, I would also like to comment on this debate and express my opinion. Perhaps we all remember the start of a substantive professional debate on the transformation of vocational training a few months ago, when we all read the concept of vocational training, which has already been mentioned here by several fellow Members. So I also think that it is appropriate to start from this in a general debate, because that is what the legislative package we are discussing is based on. The fact that vocational training itself is in crisis, I believe, has been acknowledged by all speakers. I've seen it myself since I was a kid, I've seen it, I've seen it, I've heard it. By the way, it's only in parentheses that I went to vocational school myself, by the way, and then I went to college and got a PhD. But it's just a personal procession of this thing. So everyone could see that domestic vocational training is in crisis. The main reason for this is that, on the one hand, large companies and cooperatives that were able to provide practical training in the past were destroyed, and, at present, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, multinational companies, are simply unable to provide a practical training space of capacity and quality so that children can really acquire the right knowledge. This is why the situation that has been referred to in recent years has been real, and they have also spoken about it loudly enough in the press, that the problem is not only that children, young adults, who are out of vocational school, can't write correctly at times, but simply that they don't have the right professional knowledge. [[13.40]] So, with this part in itself, it is perfectly all right to invent a new structure, to start domestic vocational training in a new direction. Besides, there are quite a few directions to this law-modifying package that are perfectly fine. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]] Another reason for this problem, which has also been mentioned by several of my fellow Members in the last few hours since we talked here, and this has also emerged in the professional debates over the last few years, is that the proportion of children who chose vocational schools and vocational secondary schools has decreased. If we observe it, it can really be shown that the proportion of children going to high school - if we look at relationships - is higher than 20-30-40 years ago. However, I find it particularly harmful that the concept of vocational training refers to this as a kind of negative. I don't think it's a problem that 40 percent of high school seniors go to high school. It must be seen that knowledge alone is valuable. And it is a fundamental statistical fact that the higher a person's education, the lower the unemployment rate, the more likely he will be to be able to find employment in the labour market. I think it is not a quantitative problem, but a qualitative problem. There is a slight difference of opinion here, but I could also say that there is a significant difference of opinion between us, because it is not necessary to achieve that children - even by forcing violence on children - go to vocational schools, vocational schools or vocational schools, but that they need to be trained in the right quality in the future. I would like to note here that we have already talked about the Bridge programmes in connection with the concept of vocational training, which has also been discussed in today's debate. I think that it is a good direction where the author set off, because if we separate the Bridge programme for public education and training bridge programmes, then it is possible that when a child performs in a bridge program on a vocational training branch, he has a real education which he may be able to work with. Another question is whether it will be filled with content, and whether it will indeed receive knowledge that will be enforceable on the labour market. What was still a marginal issue with regard to the concept of vocational training is a matter of compulsory age, to which several of my fellow Members have referred. I would just like to say that in that work paper, it was suggested to the government to increase the mandatory age limit, which I agree with. Of course, Dóra Duró is right in the sense that increasing the age limit alone does not solve anything, it must be filled with the right content. But, of course, it didn't solve anything by lowering the mandatory age limit. I myself know children who dropped out of high school at 16-17 and have no chance of getting into the labour market. On the other hand, I am quite skeptical in the sense that 17-year-olds will be hired to work in an industrial plant. I am not an employer, but I also see in my university students that when they are 18-19 years old they are children, and a 17-year-old child is not allowed to use hundreds of millions of HUF machines in any plant. What usually happens is that you're still training the child, so you're not actually doing specific production work at the age of 17, when you get into a plant, just because you don't get the right training. Here I would refer to the fact that they say professionals - and they are absolutely right - the most important expected knowledge for a child is that he can speak correctly, speak intelligently, write confidently and count, use a computer, and speak a foreign language that Rózsa Hoffmann referred to in his comments. The problem is that they are not getting this right now, and that should be changed. So I've had problems and problems with this concept of vocational training. Then we received this bill, in which, as I said, there are absolutely good directions, but there are also problems that I think are not for progress. It is a good direction to try to build public education and vocational training on a level of one another, although, frankly, I do not see the kind of interoperability that my fellow government colleagues are talking about as assured. Of course, this interoperability can be derived in a textual way, but unfortunately it is not. This may be clear with regard to the implementing regulations, but at the moment, this cannot really be taken out of it. It is a good course to gradually eliminate the possibility of teaching in vocational schools in the 9-11th grade. I think that this could be an important element of quality improvement. I also feel a bit positive about the role of MPK, the Pedagogist Faculty. They'll be required in the legislative package to coordinate with the unions. Although, overall, I think that MPK itself is an unnecessary organization. There was a head of the organization before the committee, and he couldn't tell us anything about any particular life signs. I think it's safe to eliminate it. What's the problem? I would just like to highlight a few, and then, obviously, at the committee meeting, we will have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail. On the one hand, I think it is a problem that if the same teachers teach the same methods, tools, attitudes, motivations in vocational secondary schools, vocational schools and vocational schools - whatever we call them - then nothing will actually change. From now on, in many ways, this is more of a question of money. There is simply a need for new statuses, for example, a source that allows psychologists, consultants, and other helpers to apply the conditions of employment, as set out in the bill. This is, of course, a budgetary issue, but we do not see any progress in the near future. The function of the secondary vocational school is transferred to the vocational schools, where they are planning to introduce a stronger professional foundation for students. To tell you the truth, I do not understand in the law that the proportion of time spent on the knowledge material contained in the National Basic Study alone is reduced from 70 percent to 60 percent in the first two years. I see this as a regulation with opposite effect. It would be worth rewording or rethinking in any way. To be honest, at the moment, I do not see the possibility that in the future, children will be enrolled in a mass of vocational schools, not specifically in higher education, in universities, if they graduate from vocational schools and graduate there. After all, we have also seen that the strategy "The Change of Grade in Higher Education" shows that we are going to tighten it up: the government or the majority of the government will take up university admissions, for example, by requiring a language exam, and a number of other things have been discussed here. And the higher education strategy has also foreseen that the number of children admitted will decrease year after year, partly for demographic reasons - which can be explained - but I also think that they are consciously trying to reduce the number of children admitted to higher education. If we take all this into account, then these kids will be at a competitive disadvantage, and they won't get that kind of knowledge like in a high school. Although I think the term high school is a little avittas, and as Rózsa Hoffmann said, it's an ambiguous term, for example, normal high school, and it's weird, because what we consider normal and not normal. [[13.50]] So, the point is, what I see in this measure is that nothing else is going to happen with the renaming of the gymnasium, but it can only be statistically shown that the proportion of high school students is not falling, since they also go to high school in name, but they simply won't get the same knowledge. I'll tell you the truth, I'm very fond of the Chamber of Industry here, and the Chamber of Industry and its leader have already been mentioned here. I do not have a problem with the local organisations themselves and their membership; I am also in good contact with the members of the chambers in my constituency as an individual representative. The problem is that when they say something, their own organisation doesn't take it into account, and the professional structure decision has nothing to do with what they say at the bottom level. It won't work from here on out. What works for the Parraghs is cutting without any professional content. I would strongly suggest to the pro-government representatives that they try to get a little further away from this and try to talk to real professionals. Some minor comments on the amendment of the law: for example, in the case of the Chamber, the amendment of the Public Education Act 9. §2 of the Act would amend the law so that the child's personal data could be provided to the chambers, saying that they could conclude contracts. Honestly, I don't understand. On what basis does the Chamber handle children's data? He has nothing to do with this. If they're already involved in these student contracts, they should organize, but they don't want to handle data. And it is absolutely nonsense that the VET law shows that the Chamber wants to test the children between the day of the first teachings of the 9th grade of February and the last day of April's teaching. It's absurd. The bar doesn't have to take exams. It's not his job. That's a teacher's job, and then it's the organizations that monitor them. I myself do not understand, for example, why in vocational secondary schools language preparatory classes are intended to be eliminated on a runway basis, and the establishment of these specific vocational training centres is not clear. Why is it so much, why is it created with the 2 grand limit? It has been mentioned here how well the KLIK works, and this will also be good for vocational training institutions. I'm telling you that the KLIK doesn't work, so it's a misunderstanding if you think it's a good model. That's not gonna work in this respect either. I will make the rest of my comments in the detailed debate in committee. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-28-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We continue our work in a two-minute circle, but first on your behalf I welcome the students and teachers of the Széchenyi István Secondary School from Budapest. I'm glad you're here. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, two minutes!
u2015-04-28-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to do two reactions. One: Mrs Dóra Dúró's keynote speech dealt with Miskolc, Miskolc's difficulties and the difficulties of the institution. I would just like to point out, among the walls of Parliament, that there are, without a doubt, difficult situations, but as an example, that there are 4 miskolci - four - among the 100 best-qualified high schools and secondary secondary schools, of which 2 in the first 50. So there's another segment of this story. Dóra Dúró will also learn about this to get a complete picture of Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, along with all its difficulties. My other little reaction to my fellow Member from Vinnai is that it is very important, in my view, that young people receive and acquire the most thorough professional qualifications, with the highest possible quality content, and become a component of the processes ahead. But I would also like to remind you once again that, in order not to have a trend, a tendency, which has been typical over the past five years, that a lot of young people have left the country, should also pay attention to the current government, namely, let us say, that the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, should not fall into a deteriorating position in the years ahead, but rather be able to provide a basis for living. 'Cause that could stop the processes I was talking about from happening. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-28-58	Thank you, too. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik!
u2015-04-28-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There have been so many reactions to my speech that I am not sure that I will be able to respond to everyone, but I would also like to begin in this two-minute speech. Congressman Kucsak has made a few excuses for me. That is legitimate on your part, and I have therefore improved myself in my previous speech in relation to these terms. In the case of the Bridge Programme, I believe that this should be a basis. So the question is not that the glass is now half or 60 percent full and 40 percent empty. The Bridge program alone is not a goal, we cannot consider it a success to perform the Bridge program, as it will not be able to achieve it yet, and there is no knowledge that can help him in life. In the case of Tiszkek and the number of vocational training centres compared to the number of Tiszkek, national aggregation can be tricky. According to the law, there are no more than three tithes per county, and I have mentioned that there are counties where more are currently operating, so centralization will take place in these counties, and the national aggregation may not change their number. Regarding the use of the language of vocational schools: there is currently a high school that already advertises its admissions for the academic year 2015-16 by calling it a vocational high school, in a newspaper article, a high school education with a higher number of hours. So this isn't about the current vocational high school education, but to make it easier for parents to understand, it's obviously in good faith that you call high school high school education with a higher number of classes. I would like to say to Mr Szabolcs Szabó that it is different from one profession to another whether they can be placed at the age of 17. For example, many enter a family business when they are 17 years old and immediately do not continue their studies. I also saw a positive example in Miskolc. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-60	Preliminary speakers will follow. Congressman Simon Robert, Fidesz!
u2015-04-28-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In a debate that has been going on for more than three hours, it is a little difficult to draw up new information or new arguments, but I will, of course, also try to provide new information, especially in the area of dual training. In an international survey made last year, we read the following: the global shortage of professionals has reached another peak. Around the world, 36 percent of employers find it difficult to find the right workforce. In Hungary, 45 percent of those surveyed said that it is difficult to find a suitable workforce. This is why the provision of well-trained professionals is particularly important, because the shortage of professionals leads to a loss of productivity and endangers the competitiveness of the economy. In all entrepreneurship forums where I often go, it is said that the solution should be sought, among other things, in education. International indicators of education systems confirm that the development of human resources is one and perhaps the most important key to sustainable development. The biggest challenge facing domestic public education, including the VET institutional system, is today, as has been said in several contributions, to increase the quality, efficiency and chance-building power of education and education, in an environment in which there may be recessional processes that are detrimental to the economy, which also require a rapid reorganization of the labour market. The transformation of the vocational training system has already started in the previous government cycle, making the training structure more transparent. A number of elements of the changes have been achieved recently, but it has been clear from the outset that long-term, lasting results will require changes and reforms to be broadened in order to enable the VET system on new funds to respond adequately to the constantly changing and renewable challenges of the economy and the labour market. [[14.00]] The booming economy is also generating a constantly skilled workforce, so that more and better-prepared skilled workers and technicians can be trained in order to ensure the replacement of professionals with a sufficient number of knowledge and quality according to the needs of the economy. The challenges faced by the VET system and the related development goals can essentially be grouped around three themes. The first is to meet the needs of the economy, to train and issue more skilled workers and technicians than currently. The second is strengthening dual training, increasing the number of training places and training opportunities, increasing the number of participants in the dual training process and improving the vocational training system, improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of training. Following the legislative amendments discussed by the Parliament, vocational training institutions will be more efficient and coordinated, and vocational training centres will be set up to ensure a more efficient joint use of resources; as has been said and included in the draft law, up to three per county, up to ten in the capital. Former vocational education and training schools continue to function as member institutions of vocational training centres. The vocational training centers may include vocational secondary and post-graduate training, as well as vocational and special vocational school training. I would stop here for a moment because it occurs to me that in schools with mixed profiles, where vocational training and high school education are taking place at the moment, what is happening. This is where the law refers to the fact that the conversion of high school classes is actually taking place on a runway basis. The next school year, 2016-17, will transform vocational schools. The current vocational school is transformed into a vocational school, in which the training continues to consist of the 9-12 pre-graduations and the post-graduation vocational training courses. Here, I would also like to respond to Dóra Dúró's comment in the sense that the substantive change is more important than the name. The substantial change in this case is the increase in the proportion of vocational training and, of course, of practical training at the pre-graduation stage, which ensures that students can also acquire a vocational qualification in addition to graduation. After graduation, a higher level of tech training based on graduation can be obtained. This type of school is therefore 4+1 years of training. I'd like to stop here for a moment, and I'd like to give you an example from my constituency of Győr for, say, tech training. I was at an IT high school in Győr just last week, where I spoke to the principal. Practically, a significant proportion of students who finish there will be admitted to the higher education institution immediately, or who performs as a technician can immediately be placed in the companies that operate in Győr. So it's definitely a positive thing. The current vocational school is transformed into a vocational secondary school, the key novelty of which is that after the complex professional exam, the 3 years of vocational training provides an automatic further education in the course of a 2-year pre-graduation course. In this case, the student will graduate from four mandatory public knowledge exams. In this type of school there is therefore 3+2 years of training, and the current specialized vocational school will continue to function as a vocational school, as stated in the draft law. The amendment extends the possibility to participate in day school education until the age of 25. Of course, the question arises why this is good. The increase in the age limit also allows for a later start of professional studies and a higher level of skills. Thus, young people who have not yet taken part in vocational training have a wider period of time to acquire a vocational training, for example, in the event of unsuccessful recruitment or exit from higher education. This will also increase the number of skilled workers. Under the current legislation of the VET Act, the State finances the acquisition of first qualifications, second and further qualifications can only be acquired in a cost-effective form. However, for the first graduates, if they have a diploma, there is a possibility of further progress in state-supported higher education. The bill therefore includes the free acquisition of two professional qualifications in a public vocational training system in order to facilitate the strengthening of the professional careers and careers of non-tertiary graduates. There are many who are unable or do not want to learn at a higher level, but to strengthen their professional careers and careers, it may be justified to acquire an additional qualification, which may not always be guaranteed by resources on its own. The need to strengthen dual vocational training and to implement high-quality, harmonised training in practice in vocational training schools maintained by the State justifies the restoration of the leading job in practical education. In addition to their vocational education and training work, and in the framework of it, it is the task of the practical education managers to have closer contacts with the companies organising practical training, which will clearly facilitate better cooperation between the school and the economic actors, in order to better prepare students, as appropriate. The system and rules of the apprenticeship and cooperation agreement, which constitute an essential element of dual training, will also be clarified on the basis of experience over the past period to ensure the implementation of practical training in enterprises. Finally, please give me an example. I will say this from my constituency, Győr, by which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the importance of well-functioning dual vocational training. Audi Hungaria Motor Kft. handed over a new cutting technology workshop in February of this year. The area of the cutting workshop was doubled to 450 square meters, and its equipment was expanded with 7 CNC machines and a simulation room. Thanks to the development, there is a modern VET infrastructure for apprentices to meet with the latest technology. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As in the case of operating conditions, students carry out commission-based tasks, which in practice means that the way in which the task is carried out is planned independently. Of course, this is done under the constant control of their instructors. At the same time, students of skilled workers are studying at vocational schools in Győr, which are closely associated with Audi Hungaria. The company has been cooperating successfully and successfully with the Sándor Lukács Medical and Mechanical Training School, the Géza Pattantyús-Abraham Industrial Secondary School and the Kossuth Lajos Industrial Secondary School. During dual vocational training, students will spend a week in school and in the company. Over the past 14 years, more than 1700 skilled workers have taken up their profession at Audi Hungaria, and 250 students take part in dual vocational training every year. But it would be unfair to highlight only this one large company, so it is important to stress that, in addition to large companies, smaller companies are increasingly active in the field of dual training. In addition to secondary vocational education and training, dual vocational training in the field of mechanical engineering has started in Győr with the participation of Audi and Széchenyi István University. Győr-Moson-Sopron County has always been the flagship in the field of vocational training. Many of our vocational schools have been leading the nationwide for years and decades. Innovation, i.e. the ability to renew, the expansion and modernisation of the educational profession, as well as the greater consideration of real labour market expectations, characterize the schools of Győr-Moson-Sopron county. Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, the draft law is certainly forward-looking for all of us, and I will therefore propose its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-28-62	Thank you, Congressman Simon Robert. My compliments to my fellow Members. In the next 15 minutes' time frame, MEP Nándor Gúr, Hungarian Socialist Party. [[14.10]]
u2015-04-28-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although Sándor Czomba... - [[To Dr. Sándor Czomba, who sits in the ranks of Fidesz:]] yes Yes, I did, Mr. Secretary. I was just in your chair looking for Secretary of State. I wanted to say that I didn't see it, because I would like to start with the sentence, which I think was more of a slip of the tongue, that it was high school, because the other part of it was supposed to continue to be secondary schools; so that this type of categorization is probably not in his head either. In the framework of the new structure, obviously, as you imagine shaping the processes in the 4+1 or 3+2 systems, I do not think such differentiation is necessary or, let alone not necessary, I do not think that it is progressing. In terms of education, there are always short-term interests and longer-term interests. In the short term, what can be said is that those who are, say, a law in this regard are aimed at meeting the needs of the economy. It is long or long-term that those who participate in education and vocational training serve not only to meet the needs of the economy but also to strengthen their adaptability. My creed is that somewhere both must prevail, but that second is as important as the first. Simply because you know about a life course, and your environment, if you look at it, you may find that a person is four, five, six times - some may have to change a profession, if any, several times; not only a job, but also a profession, if any. So, in this sense, adaptability or ability is a very important thing. We must not only reduce the development of processes to how and how we serve the needs of the economy. Moreover, I must not think of it because who today, with a calm spirit and a good heart, dares to declare, for a relatively longer period of time, say, a five-year period, to make clear what the needs of the economy are. Tensions and trends can be defined, but neither can a person who practically lives his life and works and does his job in the segment of the world of work who appears as an employer. Economic chambers, but others, also take representative samples, or, if they are not representative, other types are used in order to see a vision of the future in this regard. And what we can see from this is that businesses obviously have preconceptions, they have plans, they have ideas, and there are a lot of uncertainty factors in the system that they may not be able to encode in a way that the future will prove, or the future will bring about the process. In this sense, therefore, to say that we should serve the needs of the economy in terms of vocational training, I do not think it is appropriate. Let us strive to try to provide training through the vocational training system and to inspire training which, in a visible way or in a visible way, will also benefit the economy and will also benefit the young people concerned who are taking up that profession in the present time. Then, in 10 years' time, in 15 years' time, in 30 years' time, I dare say with a calm spirit that I certainly do not see, but I do not think that we can see it together, but we can only have ideas about these things. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] The farther we look, the greater the uncertainty factor in this regard. In this sense, I will return there once again, of course, it is important to meet today's economic needs in the near future, but it must be equally important to strengthen adaptability and capacity in young people who will be on the labour market in the coming years. The other part of what I have to say is about dual training. I'm a dual-training protagonist, but I'm a real dual-training protagonist. What I mean by this is that obviously, not taking stereotypes into account, or passing through algorithms that have not been created, placed in quotes - a German example - can simply be translated into dual training. No, I think it is necessary to adapt, to take into account local and Hungarian relations, but the most important backgrounds of this need to be - a quotation mark. To talk about real dual education in Hungary, a strong SME sector is needed. Look at the five years behind us, for example, the period of your government. Let's look at how the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector has developed in these five years, and how the number of working enterprises looks. I can't give you any good news. A lot of micro- and even small businesses have thrown in the towel, obviously because of economic regulators that you have set a limit for them. This does not mean that the field of dual training has been broadened over the last five years, but that it has been narrowed down. They have narrowed down and provided fewer opportunities to actually increase the number of practical training places - the number of real practical training places; the number of practical training places where direct knowledge of the profession to be acquired is possible. This is not the kind of practical training facilities that are based on art pour l, where the child is, the youth is there, but it does not come close to the knowledge that should be learned to become a real, tangible workforce when entering the labour market. This is one part of the lack of such a practical training ground because they have not strengthened, but weakened, the SME sector; especially its micro-part, so here not only the forced entrepreneurial circle that you have mentioned many times, but also the employment places between 1 and 10 people, the micro-circle. But I'm telling you, even between 11 and 50 employees are covered. The other part of practical training is the educational background and the educational background with all the necessary conditions without which real professional education cannot be completed. It's a good thing you're bringing back your practical teaching skills. But there was, if we go back ten years ago, we'll find him. It is necessary, for there must be direct competent people who pass on knowledge. It would be good if not only this teaching experience were coupled with practical training, but also, let us say, that the toolbackground, which is adapted to practical training, would have all the material background that is needed to actually acquire specific professions. It doesn't matter what examples we use; let's say that a masonry process shouldn't be about those who do this in institutional terms - I could give you examples - practically building it, breaking it down, doing it eighteen times. I think that this should also strengthen the background of financial and asset financing. I'm sure you won't argue with me on this. I suppose you'll do everything you can to make sure that happens. Well, if you don't, we're gonna talk about it, just like we've already done. The third part of this thing I told you about once today, but I'm forced to do it again. [[14.20]] The fact is that it is not enough to comply with everything in this sense and to give young people useful professional knowledge if this professional knowledge is not paid on the labour market; it is not enough. It is not enough, because then we have fulfilled some of the tasks, i.e. to endow young people with the ability, the knowledge that would require them to carry on their livelihood, but they cannot find this at this 93,000 square kilometers in Hungary, but they are forced to leave the country, becoming economic refugees. There have been many hundreds of thousands of such youths in the last five years who have left the country. So the second task is to ensure, in addition to educational needs and tasks, that the current government does have jobs outside practical training places that allow young people to exercise the knowledge they have acquired. Today, I can say with a calm spirit, there is no way. The fourth thing is really about the fact that the first qualification is free, under certain conditions the second through the higher education system. Within the framework of daytime training, despite raising the age limit to 25 years, I can hardly see the assurance that the second profession could be acquired within the framework of daytime training, let us say. If we are talking about lifelong learning, if we are talking about the possibility of acquiring lifelong knowledge, then we must take into account what I just said: that you will not spend your life with a profession who, at 17 years of age, acquires a certificate, an OKJ professional qualification - no. He will be forced - quoted - to gain more knowledge and additional professional qualifications. But how can you do that? It will be difficult if this is cost-effective, because today's Hungarian wage positions - I do not want to start again where we stand at the beginning - do not give much of the background to the financing of new knowledge within a cost-effective framework. A person who works on a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage or who works for this money - which, by the way, is worth less than five years ago - cannot bear the costs of obtaining his own fresh knowledge. Are we going to give up on this man? You're resigning? I do not want to give up, give up or give a helping hand in terms of wages - I think it is primarily there, because if there are tangible increases in wages, then obviously it is also possible to finance the costs needed to acquire knowledge - or provide other assistance tools. The final thoughts can be nothing but that if it is training, as I said perhaps at some point in the morning, we are talking about the future of society in terms of vocational training, public education - whatever - higher education or adult education. We're talking about the future of society. In this respect, all governments, I believe, must make sacrifices and make ever-increasing sacrifices regardless of their colour, and must be a source of training. It is not a source to be taken away, it is not a concentration to be done, through which even the basic tasks cannot be performed locally, but a source must be installed, and I think that the source should be used where it is best seen and knows how and how it should be used. In English: decentralize, not centralize, as much as possible, the possibility of using resources to the level where they can decide how to use them most effectively. Remember, fellow Members, some who are here from the ranks of the governing party need not to be taken away from resources, but to invest in training. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-04-28-64	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. We're about to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP.
u2015-04-28-65	Thank you very much. I'll be very quick, but I only asked for two minutes. I am pleased to be able to speak after my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, because he has already started to talk about this. Everyone has said - and I have - what they have to say about the law. What left Mr Simon Robert's mouth was very important, and I do not know if my fellow Member is still here. Globalisation is also in Hungary, we see global unemployment everywhere in the world. This comes from the same everywhere in Hungary, Germany, Denmark, America: a rapidly changing market economy and a globalised economic environment. At the time of the change of regime, Hungarians spent their lives in a single workplace for 30-40 years. After the change of regime, not only professions, whole industries have ceased, but a very rapidly changing world has to be adapted. The problem arises not only in Hungary, but also everywhere in the world, because state systems, education systems and vocational training systems can change more slowly than the world changes as quickly as the world changes. But there is a solution! Think of it - to support this - that the kindergarteners of today will work in a job that may not even exist today! Think about it. Ten years ago, nuclear power was the cheapest. We produce electricity from solar cells for the same price. Think about how the computer changes the economy. Think about the phone they've been working on for a few years, and what phone they're working on now; that an auto mechanic in the Kádár system made Trabant, and now he's got to install Audi. And I see on the Daily Economy website that electric cars are coming to Hungary. Well, that's what we're talking about, that the world is changing, and it's the state's job to strengthen its adaptability, and to do that, we need to change educational culture, a pedagogical culture, a classroom culture, to rephrase the role of the school. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It is possible to operate well or poorly with tools, but the Hungarian political elite must first and foremost change approach and make it a national minimum. Thank you.
u2015-04-28-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2015-04-28-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Perhaps I will not be unconventional to recreate the Roma theme and to talk about Roma children, because when we discuss this item on the agenda, I think it is very important that we, as Roma in Parliament, try to get a little hairy about what the educational chances of Roma can look like in this globalised world, in this accelerated world. I also miss that Flórián Farkas is not here at such an important item on the agenda, because I think it would be very important for him to comment on this item, too, even because he was also the President of the National Roma Municipality and should bear the fate of Roma children in his heart. Let me say a few things to the bill. I think there are good elements in it, because you can see that you want to move. For example, I absolutely like that the 25-year-old age has now been raised, which means they can stay in the daytime system. Of course, it would be better if they could get two or three professions during the time and not one profession, but I think that time will decide whether or not to go back to this question. It is important that it is possible not to be 20-21 years old, but to be 25 years old. What about Roma youth, Roma students? There has been very little mention here of the formulation of equal opportunities. It may be strange, but Dóra Dúró - I would also refer to it - said he, that he may not be at home, because I agree with him that it is very important for children to try to apply the situation from the start to put children in a position as much as possible. I can't exactly recall those sentences, but it's important that the parenting background is secure. This law does not address this issue, and I do not think that the law has to deal with it, but I do see it conceptually that if we do not put together the three components of this law, then it can be very difficult, especially for the disadvantaged - and not just for the Roma - to deal with the problem we are talking about with the poor. [[14.30]] I mentioned one of them, the parents. In addition, I have to mention the children, and thirdly, I have to mention the teachers. The reason we have to mention these three layers in this law is because if one of them is left out of the chain system, it is no longer possible to talk about what this law is about, to make Hungary successful, to get better professionals, to get more educated people in Hungary, because it is very difficult to accept and do this. Therefore, I think that today, if I mention parents, it is inevitable for me, too, as a Roma, to say that there is also a parental responsibility in where a child can go, because this issue cannot be dealt with without parental responsibility. Of course, here I am going to return to the fact that if we were to exert parental responsibility and expect the parent to serve the model within the household, then there is a historical responsibility for the parties after the regime change, why the employment chance was not given to the parents, which could have formed a model and model for the parents. Therefore, when it comes to the question that the child does not see the parent going to work, he does not see that the parent can give a model and model, I think that it should not primarily condemn parents, but governments that have done nothing to put people who could give their children a model and model in the post-system change situation. Hence, parental responsibility is absolutely important, and I myself consider it important. However, this issue must be linked to the issue of employment, whether parents can model and model. Of course, if there is a possibility and there is a government will to give the disadvantaged people, including the Roma, a greater opportunity in employment, then the question may arise that if parents are put in a position, then yes, if they have to, sanctions can be applied - and there are also - that the child goes to school. But that's less. Because if there is a job for the disadvantaged and the Roma, then I do not think that the model and the sample will not be given, as it did in the period before the regime change; so this is not the problem. Therefore, I think that it is important that we link employment with this issue so that we can put parents in a position. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will take his place in the notary's seat.]] What about the teachers? It is a good thing that the draft law manages and settles the part where the reform of the teaching system - if that word can be used - does and I consider it important. However, however I think, over the past few years, pedagogical freedom and institutional freedom have been a very, very important phenomenon, and I myself consider it important, but in the National Basics Plan or in the framework curriculum that the law requires, I see that it is not synchronized - and I must mention it in this law - pedagogical training. In teacher training, it is very important to highlight and define the guidelines that we see in this law, so that they can transfer it to pedagogical education so that empathy, attention, dedication and vocation are highlighted. I don't want to talk about myself, but the only way I could get to different levels of education was to get a lot of hands-on. If this embrace is not in the hands of a Roma child or a disadvantaged child, and there is no empathy and dedication in the teacher, then the child will never be able to reach a level that otherwise a social medium rightly expects of him and to be a useful member of the country. Therefore, I think that it is necessary to focus and pay attention to how much synchronization can be achieved if such a law is adopted, to include the elements that deal with it in teacher training. I know it very well, to the extent that it deals with this issue, but it has to be in its depth, because if it is not, then the parent is still doomed, and the child is clearly, because it cannot be achieved very well. Therefore, I think that there must be answers to teacher training that can in any case satisfy the need for the education programme that the government is putting down to be able to implement in the way the government would like, and society would like. However, I think that further thinking about educating is essential. I think the teacher-life model is good, because I think you can see some movement here, despite the fact that I disagree with a number of things that have happened in the past, because - and many people have mentioned it, Nándor Gúr, for example - the development of central systems is in no way useful for the system. 'Cause let's buy a city council. When a local government was a maintainer of an educational institution, he felt that institution as his own, and politically, if he liked it, he could feel it as his own, because his direct voting base was in his settlement, and it doesn't matter how he behaved, what opportunity he provided for the students, and it is therefore natural that he wanted to do everything in order to be re-appointed in the next school director's election. It's just a simple, feeble human thinking, I think, but from this human aspect, it would have been important not to create this central system. I think it will be up to the next government to decentralize this issue, so to rearrange it at some level, because, in today's situation, it is not in the interest of the municipalities to pay due attention to those who are involved in education, respect for the exception, because of course, there are always local authorities that do everything to make it work well, even though they have nothing to do with it. The third, not least, is to put the child in the position. I talked about the parents, the institution, the teachers, and I have some thoughts about the children. It is very well that you want to address this issue in this programme, which is described as trying to ensure a higher level of educational outcomes and more central knowledge, but the children's access to this knowledge that you want will not succeed. The reason why he can't succeed - and I'm not a pessimist - is because with that disadvantaged child, and within that, once again, with the Roma child, he doesn't have the disadvantages, say, the nursery, the kindergarten, and then basic education, because of your attitude from an unstimulative environment - he doesn't have the material to replace it. I think it's very important to put in here how it could be, say... I also wrote it down, I'm about to say exactly, the Golden János Talent Network's system, because it has to be synchronized. I miss it here again, which I have missed many times, too, that the Hungarian Gypsy Foundation for the Gypsies is definitely missing the Roma in Hungary. The reason we're missing is because Wekerle or any other, by the way, János Arany doesn't allow us to see who gets the scholarship. There is a number of them, so there is no problem with that, but the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation knew how many students from the fifth grade to the eighth grade of primary school will receive scholarships, who will be a skilled worker, how many people, and how many people will go to, say, high school or college, university. This is important because I think it will be important for the government to show in a few years' time that, yes, there have been so many intellectuals of Roma origin during our governance during this period - and I think it is important for you to see this - despite the fact that I, of course, consider integrated education to be important on my part. But a scholarship system other than integrated education does not prevent someone from taking on their identity, someone from taking on their membership of the minority, especially even if it brings him some forints, because it becomes visible in the system. The other thing I think is important and I would very much like to underline is that the system of community houses has been lost in this system. [[14.40]] I think extracurricular catching up and caring for talent is very important, because when we say that it is important that very educated children come to high school or get out of there - both of them are true - it is essential to replace that unintelligent medium, even if it is not possible to completely replace what the parent provides for talent-care networks and catching-up programs to work. And there were nearly 30-35 community houses, where we dealt with education and culture, which were impossible, even if there are school programs, which the government still seems to support in some priority places. I think that much more space would be needed to rethink the system of community housing, so that talent management and catching up can work in parallel with the educational program we see here. Thirdly, I think that rethinking school programmes is also important, because what I see today is that what the parenting background cannot provide, we are trying to replace with institutional systems and structures that have otherwise worked quite well at a time. Rethinking these matters is important to me, but I think that it must be important to the government, too, because it is not possible to expect everything from teachers, to expect everything from politics, or from the government, but to give the government the opportunity to allow talent networks and schools to work. If this is not done, then, I tell you now, this programme will be a complete failure for disadvantaged people, and it will be a complete failure for those who have been born Roma in this country without their parents working. So the parental background must be replaced at some level, even if this seems impossible, because I think it is really impossible, but it is necessary to find tools that can replace the parental background, and the school system, the community house system, the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation, they were all capable of doing it anyway. My last thought: I miss social consultation, especially in Roma organisations, on this issue. Civil organizations and foundations are operating, and I think it would have been very important to ask them, even the Roma self-governments or even national self-governments, what they say about such a programme, such a law, because they are deeply affected by this issue. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-28-68	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes.
u2015-04-28-69	Thank you very much. I would like to add two simple points in addition, only in order to raise awareness, and I would like to point them to the attention of the government. One is that in terms of the SME sector that I have mentioned so many times, it is visible that while in Europe the number of active enterprises in the SME sector has increased in the last five years, this has decreased in Hungary. Thus, it is difficult to clearly create a practical background, so this needs to be changed. The second is that if we look at the evolution of processes not in Europe, but in Hungary, we see that, although Hungary is not very territorial - this is the 93,000 square kilometres - but there are huge differences, in terms of territorial aspects and the role of business organisations. This obviously affects, as I said earlier, the operation of education, vocational training and practical training facilities. Therefore, it is not only within the framework of general norm systems that I consider that, on the one hand, the SME sector must be strengthened through general economic measures and toolkits everywhere, but above all in the backward areas, and on the other hand, positive discrimination and support schemes should be put in place, which do not increase the existing disadvantages between the different regions of the country, but also reduces it, because only harmonisation and balance can lead to a more livable country from Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-28-70	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Congressman László Kiss in a 15-minute time frame, MSZP.
u2015-04-28-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some things we haven't talked about yet, let's get into these. The new VET law was adopted for the first time in 2011, and even after the adoption of the law, the government's eulogy began to come about the good results of the new VET. Compared to this, the amendment to the law that, in some cases, would, in some important cases, indeed settle a matter that needs to be resolved. Some errors have just been discovered, and some consequences of the VET Act, such as the number of institutions that have been in the law since 2011. This is important, because when we read the bill, we can see it, and I felt a little like it - according to the old saying, one eye was crying and the other was laughing - I had a little negative feeling that I could see the directions that were negative for the reform of public education. That's what I'm thinking about when the KLIK fell down with a huge explosion. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyiné: It's been three years since then. We're talking about this time.]] And the screening system that you have created and encrypted, let's just say that you have shown reverse steps and reverse measures, then you will create a Klik two for the management of vocational training. I do not think this is a good direction, and I cannot support it at all. At the same time, I think it is important and a good direction that many elements of this law bring back the former development direction and structure of vocational education and training. He is doing this in such a revealing way... - I am absolutely glad that this is so, because so many of the proposals and many of the elements of the VET Act adopted in 2011 have been abolished that really had to be abolished. Well, how true that is, it shows well that when I graduated - and it wasn't now - I graduated from the same system as you now want or want to rebuild this vocational training system. But some specifics about what's really going on. One of them is the issue of professional high school regulation. In fact, you can say that it doesn't matter whether we call these institutions, the reality is whether or not there is an opportunity for students who study here to join later courses, to give real training. Unfortunately, I do not share Mr State Secretary's optimism about the fact that we are talking about an almost equivalent graduation between students in vocational training and students in high school. The truth is, however, that this is an old problem of vocational training, not the problem of vocational training under the Orbán government, but which the previous governments, the Orbán government, could not solve. But if we look at the framework curriculum for vocational education, we see that physics, chemistry and geography are one hour less than the master plan for high school; the arts are eight hours less, divided into four years, which means that from nine hours to one hour; IT is one hour less, which is interesting because the master plan defines two hours in the case of high school, one hour in the 9th and 10th, and one hour in the 9th. The question therefore arises as to how much a child with much less theoretical training can hold up in professional higher education. This is the answer, which seems logical to me, by the way, that professional theoretical training fills these gaps, and even professional theoretical training enables students who are now in vocational secondary school to take up professional higher education; therefore, for example, our students with secondary economics education can stand up at the university of economics or, where appropriate, at a vocational secondary school with technical qualifications. Now, if we look at the subjects in these courses, as we used to call them, and say today that they are difficult subjects, we see that mathematics is, for example, the most difficult subject for students at the University of Economics. [[14.50]] So it's a question of the fact that economics secondary school, who otherwise do not learn advanced mathematics, as opposed to those who, for example, study mathematics in high school, are doing excellently in the economic vocational training that they are doing and are not badly involved in, but have enormous difficulties in professional higher education due to the weakness of their mathematics competence. But let's watch engineering. If we look at mechanical engineering training, we also have the question of what is the most difficult subject, which subject is most responsible for dropping out of advanced engineering training, and yet again we see that mathematics is again the subject that children do not learn in advanced classes in technical training, just as children do not learn physics and chemistry in advanced hours. But if we look at all the other professional higher education, we see that, indeed, the lack of knowledge of the competences of mathematics and many other subjects of public knowledge is the most common reason for someone to leave the institution. So just to talk about how this type of disadvantage can be worked out in this system, it cannot. Unfortunately, this is an old, recurring problem of public education, and this kind of approach does not solve it either. It's a common debate and I can never go without saying anything about it, it's the age of schoolwork. I myself do not agree with the better chair of the Education Committee that it is not a solution in itself; it is better in itself that there has been an obligation to study for 18 years than it is now, but of course it does not hurt if a well-functioning vocational training supports the 18-year obligation system and we have talked about the fact that there is no such system at present. Of course, obviously, the chairman of the Education Committee is not responsible for the regulation of the previous Public Education Act, so let me just draw attention here to the fact that, when the school obligation was 18 years old, the legislation responsible for this is LXXIX of the year. Act No. 6 §2 of the Act provides for this, and at that time the Public Education Act said that the obligation to teach is until the age of 18 or until the end of the academic year when it was completed. So, for example, when I graduated high school, and I wasn't 18 when I graduated from high school, I was obviously out of school. Plus, at 16 years of age, the schooling obligation could be terminated at the request of the parent and the child in several cases, for example, if he had acquired qualifications. This is just an example of the fact that there has never been a system of violence in school for young people who already had a degree, but did not want to learn, so to speak, in a subtle way, to claim ignorance, but my claim is that time at school and at a good school is always better than being unemployed. And I share that in the same way as some of my MSZP fellow Members have already said this question about how they are rushing into the labour market after a 17-year-old youth, unfortunately not very much. There are examples that are positive about this thing, but you can't say it's true. For example, if you look at youth unemployment figures, you can say that the more young you are, the more likely you are not to have a job if you have a low education. And these are facts. As the fact is that according to KSH data, when you restored your education obligation, there was a 9 percent decrease in the number of students enrolled in vocational school and a 4 percent decrease in the number of students enrolled in high school, which, by the way, exceeds the demographic decline of 3.5 percent. So this is already an indication of how damaging this was. Not to mention that I myself, as head of vocational school, have experienced how many children have been expelled from school simply because they could now do so unpunished. After that, let's just say, I cannot say that these children have had an excellent career in the world of work, I wish I could say that is true. The MSZP says that there is a serious problem here in the public studies at the vocational school. He says your structure, which I agree with, by the way, considering that when I graduated from high school, it was this system, that someone would complete the three-year vocational school system, and then get an extra two years of graduation. I think that this is in line with international efforts, in line with the directions in which vocational training needs to be developed, I note that when I graduated, the same system worked. However, there is a significant difference between the two: when I graduated, there was normal public education in vocational training, there was normal public education in vocational training, and now this number of hours you provide in the framework curriculum is ridiculous. When we talk about the fact that these children, who complete vocational training and receive a profession, have to graduate in two years, we talk about getting this in a way that, for example, they have 6 hours of foreign language in a total of three years, so they do not learn mathematics in the third year of vocational training, they have 2 in the first year and 1 in the second grade in mathematics. It's a class called history, there's no history, it's called social knowledge, 2 and 1 hour, there's no such thing in the third grade, it's 5 physical education, it's obviously good, there's 1-1-1, that's not what they call it, and the free watch frame should make sure that the kids learn something, and the school weighs the system a little bit, 1:00 in the ninth grade, 0:00 in the tenth grade, and 1.5 hours in the 11th grade. So these children receive significantly less public education, and this training should include the extra two-year graduation course, which, I repeat, is not unprecedented in the system of Hungarian public education, for example, my sister graduated from school in the past, it wasn't now either. So this system is not unprecedented, but it is unprecedented that they want to build this system on so little professional knowledge. It is equally important, I read this in one of the studies you ordered, but it was posted on your website by the Education Researcher, which tried to set the German example as a good example. I think there is much to learn from German vocational training, and the study itself makes many suggestions to the government. Some of this also comes back in this proposal, which is here, but it is important to note the difference, but we are just looking at some of these differences: in Germany, the obligation to teach is not 16 years - but to close this issue - but to the first qualification, which ends at the age of 18-19. The other is that the Ministry of Education is the maintainer of this institutional system, so they are not taking this thing to any other ministry. I think it's a very good idea that, besides graduation, someone can get some kind of preliminary profession. This is obviously possible because of modular vocational training, it acquires the profession corresponding to that module by performing a sub-module. I would like to point out that right now - I do not want to read the modular levels of OKJ - there are a number of trainings of code 52 or 54 which do not have sub-modules that can be obtained earlier. Therefore, in the event that Parliament actually accepts this regulation, it is necessary to review the OKJ so that each training that is post-graduation training has modules that provide professional qualifications even before graduation. In fact, what I have to say is that I do not feel that this proposal will solve a number of problems for vocational training, but there is no doubt that some progress has actually been made in this law, which is in front of us, which solves major problems, or, if you like, remedy the wrong steps in the 2011 law. For example, there was talk of pushing that limit up to the age of 25 until the first qualification in public education can be obtained free of tuition. I think this is good, and I didn't understand why, earlier in 2011, the law required that this be much less than that: 21 years. But I am glad that this is a problem and it has been resolved, but I still do not understand why this structure should be created. I still do not understand that if a structure in public education is working poorly, then why the same should be done in vocational training. I still do not understand that if you really can learn from mistakes and can overcome some of the problems of your law adopted in 2011, then why are you unable to see that you have failed to set up a basic structure. They made a mistake when they nationalized the institutional system and made a mistake when they reduced the public knowledge content of the vocational school. For this reason, I cannot support this law. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-28-72	Thank you very much, Congressman László Kiss. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi for two minutes, MSZP. [[15.00]]
u2015-04-28-73	Thank you very much. I'd like to make my final comment, and I think it's up to the representative of the government. It's an honor to have taken part in such a good debate with you. I think that I would assume that we can operate here from the up and down of the obligation to teach through the introduction of dual training through many means, but today we have a joint political responsibility in Hungary for the right and left of the political elite, the Democrats, that from the world of the Kádár system, where 30-40 years worked at work, we will actually lead Hungary to a globalised economy, where Hungarian society and the whole state will face completely different challenges. What I would suggest to ourselves is that we don't fight each other, that we agree on more things, that they often come out to me. Let's not look for scapegoats in each other and in the past, especially in social groups, but try to create a new national minimum, because otherwise we won't go one by one. Let us agree that a change of state culture, a rethink of the role of the state, a change of pedagogical culture is needed, a change of classroom culture is needed, a complete rethink of the function of the school, as there are also such social differences in this small country that other types of social, educational and vocational training solutions are needed, if any, as in Győr or Miskolc, or where I was born, Kiskunmajsa, or here in Budapest. Finally, until the eight primary schools fulfil their function, you will come up with any good intentions and, by the way, a good proposal in many of the elements, we will not go from one to the other. Thank you very much for this excellent debate and I hope that we have said something useful to each other.
u2015-04-28-74	Thank you very much. I will ask if there is a need for further speeches. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Yeah, and I can't see because I can't say anything for two minutes. If Nándor Gúr wishes to speak, do not press the two-minute button, but the other one, because he has the opportunity to do so. (To be indicated:) Yes, so I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-04-28-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're right, because you can't have two minutes in this circle just once, but I didn't want to talk for 15 minutes. Now you're forcing me to talk for 15 minutes, Mr. President. I won't. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: No! God forbid.]]
u2015-04-28-76	Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-77	Thank you very much. So it's just because I want to end our conversation so that I can convey my lack of feeling that two Secretarys of State are sitting here between us, and that they will not play a role in this relatively long debate as we go along. [[On Dr. Bertalan Judit's mark, Mrs. Czunyi:]] Thank you very much for giving me the spotlight at the end, but I don't think that's a debate. The debate is when we share with each other what we see, how we see, how you see it in this draft law. I am not interested in a keynote speech and a summary by the ministers of state, but I am interested in addressing questions raised during the procession, questions raised by any faction, in the parliamentary debate, so that it can be further thought about. It's just a revelation that you're doing, not thinking together. I would like to encourage you to participate in a sober, cooperative debate over the coming period, which can build, improve, shape and shape all that is in Hungary's interest. And my second sentence is that I think that, in shaping such an important issue, we need to make the circle of thinkers very wide. So, not only in the walls of Parliament, but also with a multitude of social organisations, civil society organisations, obviously Chambers, listening to their opinions and listening to many others, public bodies, chambers, many others. Don't tell me in your closing thoughts that you did what you agreed to. Don't say it because, you know, the negotiation, the consultation must take place on such issues. National consultation, let us say, should take place on issues of great importance for society in the future. As an example, this is what I consider to be, and I could say countless more, not like what you guys are sniffing in, pushing me in, forcing me into the framework of the national consultation. So I would ask you to take a debate and share your views as you go along in order to reflect, because now, when you do the final thoughts, you can't, and if you want to consult, you can't do the consultations in a shell, but you recommend to the Prime Minister that you consult at national level on such matters. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-28-78	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. According to the house rules, since you have a two-minute signal, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. [[On the sign of Nándor Gúr:]] Then put it out. Thank you very much. No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The joint general debate is closed. The authors of the legislative proposals may have their closing words. The two closing words agreed that Mr Sándor Czomba would be the first to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-28-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by saying that we have had a very useful debate on a very important issue, and if we have to draw conclusions, and I do not really want to go into the details, because there will be a detailed debate after that, so we will still have the opportunity to argue with each other, but I think that on very important issues, on fundamental issues, sentences have been said in Parliament which are not very, rarely, and in relation to government referrals, there are very rarely any elements, even more important elements of a bill with which we can agree or agree. Obviously, the comma comes next, but, well, it's natural, because, on the one hand, there is no legislation that is perfect, and on the other hand, the opposition has a role and a role, as well as the government side. My fellow Member, Mr Gur, missed the fact that we did not push two-minute-olds here and we did not break up, we did not tear up the debate. Obviously, our fellow factions are sitting in this horseshoe because they are the ones who, by the way, represent and represent the position of Fidesz not only the government but also the Fidesz. We have frankly, openly put our ideas on the law before you. From here on out, it's your chance to respond and reflect on them. This is a genre where we end up answering questions from the government as far as we can. I planned not to go through it one by one, because there have been a number of areas or questions that have come from several of my fellow Members or from several factions, and I will try to say it in a voice of sentiment, in substance. The development of initial training is essential. You may remember, so I started by saying that the alpha and omega of the success or failure of secondary education is that young people who enter secondary education, whether it is a vocational school, a vocational school or a high school, have basic knowledge of what is needed to move on. It's okay to have enough basic knowledge because we're not the same. It only covers the sufficient content of the ticket, and do not, to say the least, have mercy enough to get rid of the problem, because in two years' time, in five years' time, in 10 years' time, we will have nothing to do with these problems. So we fully agree that in primary education we have important things to do to achieve results in secondary education. It is a very important question, it is no longer a goal, but a system of instruments, but there are many concerns about the centers about how it will be. There is a pejorative feeling for the Hungarian people about the Tisk, especially those who were involved in this, that at the time, the schools that played the role of the central school in Tusk, and they ran, developed, progressed, and there were the member schools that either ran or improved or progressed, or did not, so they received no funds. [[15.10]] I would like to ask you to forget about the institutional structure of the kind of center school that has worked so far. Let's get this out of our heads because that's not what this is about. Even the local location of vocational training centres will not be of great importance. There may be a number of people sitting in a school, but from a substantive point of view, he is above the institution, as it will be an independent farming organization. We did not want to create 400-500 separate farming organisations as quasi-schools, but centres and centres will delegate their rights to schools; much more entitlement from economic, independent economic, partly autonomous economic, professional and many other aspects. In Hungarian, the framework that is available in the next period will provide the institutional leaders with the opportunity to deal with their previous problems, and they can deal not only with their material problems but also with their other professional problems. The role of parents has been highlighted by many. Once again, we can totally agree with that, because if the parent is not a partner of the teacher in child rearing - and here we can talk about basics, middles, anything - the teacher will not be able to move forward even if he spits out his lungs. Again, that's not a question. I also felt from the words of my fellow Member, Mr Dúró, that there was something to be done here, but what should be done specifically, so that we could make the parent a partner if necessary, well, it is probably difficult with a violent instrument. In parentheses, the fact is that if the student doesn't go to school, he has an unauthorized failure, then he doesn't deserve a different scholarship and so forth based on student status. There is a sanction right now, but I do not think that this solution will achieve our goal. So the role and significance of the parent must be decisive. With regard to the Bridge programmes, again, I would like to say and ask that it is not Bridge I and Bridge II. Let's start from a program that's worked so far. That's why we're splitting it up, and Bridge II. We are pushing the programme towards the possibility of obtaining part-training, because we also see that this programme is effective at the moment, but not what we would have liked or expected it to be. It has also been said that it will be important for us to have the opportunity to support and secure these beautiful ideas from the source side of the school's own incomes, and generally from the source side and from the budgetary side. Indeed, during the previous period, vocational training institutions were not particularly encouraged to generate their own income, because if they managed to do so in some way, they received so much less in the next year either from the central budget or from the municipality, i.e. from the maintainer. We want them to be able to manage their own income in a responsible manner in the next period. In adult education and adult education, we have a much greater role to play in state-owned vocational training institutions, especially in those professions that are well done in the daytime system, because there are infrastructure, personal and material conditions, and it would be a sin not to take advantage of it. In this, we will have all sorts of incentives in the next period. My socialist fellow Members have indicated that they have been missing professions before - of course. What's good, you don't have to deny it, you don't have to deny it. Yes, in the earlier period, this began with the name of Péter Kiss. Unfortunately, in terms of its size, it was able to achieve a very bottlenecks, and we did not double them, but triple them. But it's definitely a fact. So, in terms of missing trades, our plan is to increase from 12 to 20 per county. This means that there will also be significantly greater involvement in terms of number in the coming years. Allow me to bring you a personal item for half a sentence. I graduated from engineering high school at the time, graduated high school, and got a Turner's Certificate next to graduation. Luckily, the Hungarian industry was spared the life of me standing behind the turning machine as a turning machine, because I went to the university, but I would have had the opportunity to get a job besides graduation. For ten years, I taught at a vocational school in the most eastern corner of the country, in Városhnosnám. We played professionally, professionally, professionally, professionally, all kinds of instruments. There was a big problem back in the '90s, but now it's even bigger, so the situation is worse now than it used to be in the '90s. My educators keep talking about how Sanyi, not the welding, should be taught, but read - not in syllables, but in understanding reading - the instruction that applies to this. So this is where the problems start; they don't start, but unfortunately, this has been the case for a long time. It is a very important and important question, and we have argued a lot about what should be done. Whether the solution should be that everyone should graduate, then when they are 18 years old, when their head has grown soft, one-year, two-year adult course, such training can be used to acquire the profession, or if the solution is to give everyone an opportunity to acquire a profession, and not to close the condition of entry to the graduation after the opportunity to acquire a profession, but to make the system interoperable. We chose the latter, because the thing is, we're not sure that everyone can, wants, and wants to graduate. Here I would like to point out one more important thing: how many gs a welder should be written is not a graduation requirement. We'll look for it and find it where it's needed, in the right grade of elementary school. The problem is that a graduation today is worth what it's worth, especially if it can't go to college or college because of the quality in recent years? - It's been spectacularly rotten for decades. That is what we must prevent and create the possibility for everyone to be able to enroll in a school suitable for their knowledge, ability and qualifications. There are no personal and material conditions for SMEs; I think such a clause was made by the LMP. I would argue with that because, thank God, I can say a lot of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that have been involved in vocational training in the last few years. Undoubtedly, there are still a lot of people who are just thinking about it, because they do not feel the possibility of it, its significance. But in short, I would like to say that it is not a problem that the school workshop is better equipped than the school workshop outside the company. We have to operate the two together so that the student can acquire both of them in the right way and in the right quality. If there's more advanced technology in school, it's a third year's leave for a semester, a few months there. If the company has it, it can be done the other way around. So we have to deal with this together. Finally, I consider the issue of career orientation and track tracking to be very important. It's a very, very important thing. We talked about a lot of things here, the role of the parent, the educator, the school and the rest, but the career orientation must be the end of a conscious series of actions. You don't have to talk about things in the eighth grade in three class classes, but you have to talk about things that are lifelike and lifelike. Of course, it's obviously easy for a big company to do, because the class teacher is taking the class around at the end of class, asking if you'd like to come here, yeah, 90 percent of it is hired, and the career orientation is ticked. However, this cannot be done everywhere in the country. But it is very important that we achieve success with consistent work on career orientation over the next period. And I think that tracking is just another one of your own. It would be very, very good to know if a young person in a particular profession is working, where he is, where he is, in a year, a year and a half, in two years, working, working in his profession, what experience he has acquired, what he needs to change in the education system to ensure that this is permanently operational, so that we can maintain a system that is capable of dealing with problems in the long term. As a last resort, thank you again for your comments. We discussed an important topic, and I hope that we have made some real progress. Obviously, we welcome and look forward to suggestions and other suggestions with a positive intention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2015-04-28-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will also give the floor to Secretary Judit Bertalan in a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-04-28-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me start as my secretary-in-chief started, and many here at the end. Thank you very much for that debate, for that substantive debate, and let it be said, among the walls of this House, that - for a long time I thought - a dignified debate, which today, in terms of both public education and vocational training content, could be added by all the factions. Let me say to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that my speech was repressed during the debate, if you will, because I have always thought so, and I think that we all agree on key issues, objectives and content selection. The questions that you, referring to or questioning and asking, happen to be within the framework of a detailed debate, and I think you will be given an answer there. In the context of the general debate, my overall impression is still that the objective is clear to all of us. In this regard, I did not think that this kind of consensus on the future of vocational training, which has now been established here, within the walls of this House for a few hours, should be broken down. I did not want to have this dialogue with some of those comments, and I can also say that I did not want to have a professional dialogue. Because obviously there would have been a reason or a reason to point back, reach back, or express criticism that would have disrupted the unity of this harmony. But if that's what it takes, we'll take the opportunity next time. Because of the topic specifically, the subject and the content of the VET Act and the corresponding Public Education Act, I thought that the nearly half a million children who are studying the profession today in vocational training acquire, whose future we are talking about, and also a significant number of young people per incoming year, whose enrollment ends today, say, in secondary education institutions, deserve to be discussed here in a responsible and dignified manner. Not to excuse it, but I think that what you have been pushing for, whether in professional content or what my colleague László Kiss has been trying to do with the framework and subject content, is a classically subversive professional debate. This should be discussed, as he quoted, partly by the Institute for Education Research and Development, and partly by the profession proposing a framework curriculum. The methodological issues, I think, should not be discussed between the walls of this House, we need to establish the framework here in the general debate, and give room for this in the detailed debate, a little bit closer to these content. I think that the important thing, however, is that we can end today by agreeing on the goal and by means of a way, opportunity and opportunity to correct it. A correction is not from the devil, if a previous decision can be applied or made more flexible in practice, adapted to the needs, whether it is in the interests of the parent, school or the economy, all three are important here. I do not think that we would turn our backs on the VET Act 11. In fact, I think that the VET Act No 11 created the framework and opportunities, together with the Public Education Act, that the problems that you have referred to on several occasions, this is leaving school without a degree in secondary school, leaving early school, finding work, unskilled labour market soillessness, general school issues and problems, and we will solve them. These are all things to which we are now able to get here, so that we were able, conceptually speaking, to submit a bill with NGM, in 11 we had to take decisions both in terms of the general framework for public education and in terms of the general framework for vocational training. But we have the knowledge and the instrument in our possession to be able to take measures to correct territorial differences, such as those referred to by President Dóra Dúró, in order to correct the territorial differences, such as the single maintenance system or that system of maintenance organisations and other logic - I do not want to recall my State Secretary-General - in the case of vocational training centres, in a new structure to strengthen the functioning and operation of vocational training. And, yes, I am asking you, too, that there are some concepts here that have been rethinking in terms of language use in the last few hours, but they are quasi-refining certain school frameworks. Indeed, we also ask that we step out of the conceptual framework of the last 25 years, because during the vocational training centre we think otherwise, a kind of practicality. Step out of the former definition of the practical leader, since it will have a different purpose, content of his task, or more and more, to serve the task that we have formulated in the concept to transform vocational training. I think there was one thing about the goal that we had different views on, and what is conceptual or cardinal, and that is that you too, in the long term, and that many of you, on behalf of several factions, need to look for solutions across several government cycles, and that is why certain provisions have been missing, let us say, an opportunity to take action from any law or bill. And I think that, in the long term and conceptually medium- and long-term, there must be truly cross-border solutions for both public education, primary education, secondary education and, at the same time, higher education, which we are looking for. However, in terms of vocational training, this bill, which we are discussing today, allows both to intervene in the short term and within a relatively short period of time to integrate vocational training into the labour market. This was the first step of the 2011 Act, and there has been another attempt, attempt, proposal, as the State Secretary Czomba has just responded to the comments of his representatives. Yes, this includes those that were good before, and we have tried to collect those that fit, are suitable, and can serve the goals set out by any action. We also agree that it is necessary to strengthen primary school and to consider the structure, content of primary school and to develop a concept in order to ensure that the concept of vocational training that we have discussed today works on a really suitable soil, it is appropriate, let us say, to start from a start stone. That's what we're working on. Obviously, I wouldn't want to refer you back to the points of the reformation of public education, they recalled it from a number of perspectives. I would just like to highlight one positive side, and this kind of restructuring has made it possible for us to deal with regional differences, social and family differences. Allow me one thing, and I would not say this in a targeted way, although I will probably quote, I think that exactly the Hungarian public education, the Hungarian primary education from the nursery through the kindergarten, and the cradle interpreted as an atypically public education or educational institution, we took the hands of the poorest children when we started with catering, kindergartening, free textbook care and the establishment of a system of support for families for schooling and raising children in general. This is obviously the framework condition that needed to strengthen, on the one hand, the positions from which we can already say that they will be seen when they arrive at school, and these measures are for medium- and long-term school years both in 2011 and 2012. For children who are now in kindergarten will arrive in vocational training in 8-10 years, for them both preschool education and elementary school measures are likely to bring about the change that we want the school system to ensure in the long term. [[15.30]] We agree that territorial differences should be answered. Obviously, there are several responses here, and this must be done not only in vocational training, but also in kindergartens and primary schools. We are so far ahead of the operation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, and I think it is a very rich knowledge that the Klebelsberg Institution Support Center knows that we can deal with problems in a single information system, broken down into schools, that are related to either specialized education or the number of teachers or the social environment around children. This is a useful knowledge to give an accurate, good answer in the next and future. For many reasons this was not possible in different maintenance systems, for many reasons it was not possible in the municipal structure, but I think that this is, for example, an explicit good startstone to give the right answers. We also agree on thinking about educating, however strange it may be, but there was already a starting step not this year, not last year, but earlier, the restoration of the undivided pedagogical training itself is also a goal for educators who take the course as teachers to be able to work in classrooms with appropriate pedagogical methodological knowledge. This, too, started slowly but apparently successfully through the Klebelsberg Scholarship programme. Obviously, it is necessary for this to widen, and I really think that, for vocational training, it is necessary to strengthen vocational education and training, and frankly, I do not think that it is evil and wrong for teachers to give a lauf to colleagues in vocational training, that they can pass on the knowledge they bring from practice to children or students. A reply, a possible answer, the current Public Education Act does not speak to this, but at the meeting of the Cultural Committee, Madam President remembers it well, the committee asked the question of the possibility in primary school of responding to the problems that, for example, concern the range of basic competences that you have repeatedly encountered here, let us say that there are shortcomings in secondary schooling in vocational school and, where appropriate, secondary education. A possible response to these is the already launched and ongoing consultation, primarily by professional consultation - not even the government is at the forefront of this - on the change of school structure. By the way, we are beyond the opinion of the Teachers' Association and several professional forums in the examination of the nine-year model, which, I think, helps it, but this cannot be the only good answer, the content of which does not matter what directions it sets. There is already consensus in professional opinions, and I can put the position of either trade unions, advocacy organisations, the Pedagogist Faculty or science to a minimum consensus that the 9-year model makes sense if we teach something else in substance, and in the foundational period, key competences, which are strengthening mathematical thinking, understanding of speech, understanding of text and behavioural standards, other content that promotes psychosocial development, and leave time to deepen knowledge. In this case, if there is a professional consensus and a minimum of professionalism - to quote my fellow Member of Kunhalm - then we can start with the study subject education and strengthen the step in the middle, but this is still being discussed in society rather than in the profession. I think that this is typically a question that can be a good answer if we are at all the points - that is what we are working on, by the way. This cannot be here today, as the VET concept now wants to give a short and rapid answer to the problems of vocational training along the intervention points, and, yes, the bill also contains those that appear in the name more than redefined types of institutions, but also the VET concept, if you like, will consider the future in terms of how the content can be combined with a curriculum and a framework course. What we can do immediately in public education, we do, and what is not necessarily legislative, just say, at ministry level, is, for example, a measurement-assessment system that provides a direct quick response or response to teachers and helps, for example, in career selection, career orientation, both the family and the school teacher, in order to prevent early school leaving without a degree. The professional protocol of this is ready, there is a proposal for diagnostic measurements in measurement systems that will be able to be applied in schools on a full basis from the next academic year. This is an important first step for us to be able to build on when we enter with new content frameworks, and for guidance and track tracking systems, this information is very useful. The János Arany Talent Care Program continues. I would just like to confirm here that, with this concept and these two laws, the elements of the AJTP, the Arany János Talent Care Program are not violated, so we can be safe from the fact that the disadvantaged children who have been able to move forward in artistic training, vocational training or in high school education, because of the weakness of the family background or, let us say, lack of a family background, are still given to them. The problems, I think, are common and broadly the same: it is the search for tools that was one of the aims of this concept, and it has made some proposals in the instruments to the legislator. I have felt today that there is consensus in the majority of this, and it is obviously the detailed debate and the drafting of the content framework that is important that this concept is effective in the medium to long term, in particular in order to help children learn. I left a very current information at the end, these figures will be released on the 30th: statistically, secondary schooling data showing high school, secondary secondary school and vocational schooling and enrollment, do not justify the kind of earlier, say, a few months ago, because of vocational training versus high school education, mainly opposition criticisms that will be impaired or at the expense of high schools or anything that has been said as a criticism, so yesterday's statistical data shows very well the balance of the system for enrollment. So the parents have chosen, the parents have not been uncertain, the content of their recordings, the admission scores show that there is a balance in the circle that applies primarily to high school and vocational school, so to graduation courses. However, this number also shows that vocational school applications, even if they are slightly reduced, and, for example, this data proves that we need to move towards a vocational training system that can respond in time, good timing and, if possible, with short response times, because the problem is really how many percent of the students we can enroll in vocational school, admit them to high school and vocational school. All the comments and all the opinions that have been made here today confirm, therefore, that the concept of vocational training and the corresponding, uniform and school-based amendment of the public education law are in agreement with its objectives. Obviously, in terms of details, it will be possible both in the context of the detailed debate and in the context of the Commission's debates to address some of the issues. Let me once again thank everyone for their attitude and contribution to a really good debate, and let me first of all thank them on behalf of those they speak of, on behalf of the currently nearly half a million young people in vocational training, and on behalf of those for whom we are likely to adopt a common minimum, a system of good vocational training for the future, along a common consensus. I ask for the support of the bill and for a similar constructive contribution to the debate. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-82	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLVI amending certain tax laws and related other laws follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. [[15.40]] The submission was made in T/4452. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-28-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 20 April 2015, a bill was submitted to further expand the job protection action. The government's priority is to increase the employment of workers in the agricultural sector. The newly introduced benefit in the framework of the job protection action will allow employers to apply tax incentives to workers aged 25 to 55 who are in employment in agriculture. At present, it is possible to apply for agricultural seasonal work at a reduced rate, called simplified employment, but this is only possible for 120 days. In addition to reducing the employer's burden, the extension of the job protection action also aims at making jobs in the agricultural sector more predictable and thus providing a more secure livelihood. The continued objective of introducing the discount is to reduce black employment, with which fair operators, apart from the employee and the budget, will benefit. The amount of the discount that can be applied to workers in agricultural jobs is the gross wage, but up to HUF 14.5 per cent, i.e. the employer's public burden is reduced by half with the new discount. The benefit is not subject to a time limit, i.e. it can be used for as long as employment is in agricultural employment. These include, for example, employment for vegetable producers, poultry farmers, cattle, horses, pigs, sheep farmers and sheep farmers, but also benefits from the operator of the agricultural and forestry plant protection machinery. Under the proposal before you, the discount will be available from this year's agricultural season, as of 1 July 2015. Preliminary surveys show that the discount facilitates the preservation of 30-35 000 workers' jobs and the creation of new jobs in the agricultural sector each month. Dear House, I ask you to discuss the bill and then accept it. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-28-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-28-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is, in fact, an extension of the action plan for the protection of jobs introduced in 2013, as we have just heard, to agricultural workers aged between 25 and 55 years. The package of measures introduced two years ago has significantly helped disadvantaged and vulnerable social groups in the labour market both in their jobs and in their jobs. Employees from social groups targeted by law may benefit from employer tax incentives as part of the action to encourage employment. The benefit is deducted from the 27 per cent social contribution tax payable by employers and from the 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution. It is a remarkable fact that, with the job protection action, the government has so far left over HUF 232 billion in companies, thereby boosting the economy and increasing employment. We are all well aware of the positive trends in employment in recent years. In 2010, only 3.6 million people worked in Hungary, and today more than 4.1 million people can do this. The improved figures are largely due to employment-enhancing programmes such as the job protection action, which significantly contributed to reducing unemployment from almost 12 percent in 2010 to around 7 percent in Hungary today. The benefits of the job protection action in 2015 can basically be divided into five large groups. In a non-skilled job, 14.5 per cent of employees are eligible for the benefit of employees in the main group 9 of the single classification of occupations throughout the period of employment. A 14.5 per cent tax benefit may also be applied to employees under 25 years of age and over 55 years of age during the entire period of employment. In the case of a worker under the age of 25 who has a work relationship with an insurance obligation of up to 180 days, a full employer tax exemption, i.e. 28,5 per cent, is available during the first two years of employment, while in the third year the benefit is 14.5 per cent. Tax relief for long-term job seekers can be used for the employment of workers who have been registered as job seekers for at least 6 months out of 9 months prior to employment. In their case, the total employer tax exemption, i.e. 28,5 per cent tax relief, can be used in the first two years of employment, while in the third year they are entitled to a 14.5 per cent benefit. Finally, the tax relief applicable to workers who receive childcare premiums, childcare allowances or child rearing aid should be mentioned. This type of support may be used in the case of employment or employment with children after maternity benefits have ceased. In this case, 25.5 per cent in the first two years of employment, in the third year of employment and in the case of mothers with at least three children, 14.5 per cent in the 4th and 5th years. It is important to note that each discount is available monthly, after the first HUF 100,000 gross wage. The above benefits are general, so they have always had the opportunity to be used for workers in agriculture if the age of the employees was below 25 or over 55 years. However, given the positive feedback provided by economic operators and the positive development of employment indicators, it is also considered appropriate to extend the range of beneficiaries further. If the motion before us is accepted by this House, the law may enter into force as early as 1 July this year, i.e. for summer agricultural work, the new tax reduction will be applicable and, even in the case of employment of workers aged 25 to 55 in the agricultural sector, the social contribution tax will give rise to a 14.5 percent discount, which the employer can enforce. According to the submission, the discount is also due for gross wages and is valid for up to HUF 100 thousand and is not subject to a time limit. The benefit may be applied to the whole month if the worker is employed in agricultural employment throughout the month. It is also an important moment that, in the case of part-time employment of the worker affected by the discount, the benefit which the employer may obtain should be reduced in proportion to part-time and full-time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you with respect to support the proposed legislation in order to boost the economy and, in particular, to further strengthen agriculture and continue the positive employment trend. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-28-86	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-04-28-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, in line with the background of the draft law or its supplementary ideas, some corrections must be made and then I will go to the draft law. It is very important in the lives of all governments - and it must also be - to preserve existing, specific, existing jobs. I admit it's very important, and I appreciate it. But, ladies and gentlemen, you didn't sign up for this five years ago. Five years ago, you said that you would create a million new jobs, jobs producing tax forints, which have been brought to life in the economy. On the other hand, when they try to convince society that the employment picture is better than five years ago, all I can say is that they want to be deceived. [[15.50]] Simply because more than 3.7 million people were registered as employees on average in 2010 did not reach 4 million in the closed year of 2014, there is a difference of 370 thousand people, it seems... - and I will now tell you and everyone who listens, sees or watches what this picture looks like. The picture appears to increase the number of people employed by hundreds of thousands of people in public employment and by hundreds of thousands in a given period. Quote: the number of employees, unfortunately a significant proportion of whom, according to their own declaration, say that they must carry out a work activity - once again a quotation mark - which cannot be considered as such. I could give you some examples. Pearl tree, resigned by the mayor himself, where 30 people had cleaned 300 meters of trench for six months, with a distance of six centimeters a day; and other examples could be provided. This is not value-creating public employment. This public employment, this type of public employment, is cynical. It's people's disregard. Disclaimer of those who have otherwise been fired as civil servants and who are employed as public employees under a scheme, if any, in combination with such work, is employed in a quotation mark. Well, it's part of the increase. The other part, you know, is that, as I have said once today, I repeat: a circle of hundreds of thousands of economic refugees among young people has been brought to life in the last five years. You know, the way our statistics work is simply that workers who, thanks to this government, have had to go abroad, thanks to the help of this government, so that they can support their own family and work abroad not more than a year ago, are registered as employees in Hungarian statistics, as if they were doing work here. It's a hundred grand in scale, I'm telling you. And third of all, a crowd of 8-hour employees were eliminated, and they turned 8-hours into 4-hours, part-time employment, thus statistically increasing the number of employees, because the 4-hour is taken as one, so if they made two of the 8-hours into 4-hours, then they doubled the number of employees of those 8-hours. I have just said three items - if necessary, I can say another three - for the magic, which makes it seem like the employment picture is better. But I regret to tell you that the employment picture is not better, the number of jobs created in the economy producing tax forints has not increased, and is roughly stagnating. In that sense, you need to back off a little bit. Not to say things because the Prime Minister says that employment has increased, unemployment has decreased... - unemployment has decreased? Well, one more thought to that, and then we're at the law. It decreased, of course, when the duration of the supply was reduced from 9 months to 3 months; in Europe, the shortest-term supply, the most insensitive form of supply, was introduced. Anyone who can get kicked out of the supply system, don't get in. They do not operate an inclusive system where they want to provide, but a repulsive, ejective system, where statistics are the most important thing for you, and not a way of living for man. That is why I think that we should not brag about unemployment and employment data as loudly as within Parliament's walls or outside of it, because it can be crushed into dust with all the basic arguments that they say in this respect. The other part, once again, is that promises must be made into reality through concrete actions. If they said that 1 million new jobs in the economy, in five years the 500,000 - because they promised us ten years to be generous and just - should be accounted for! And don't talk about what happened in the OSH program - the principle, you know? It's the principle. You don't have to brag about it and brag about it. Once again, now, looking back at five years, they owe this country, the people who live here, 500 thousand new jobs. Not with a job as a public servant, no! With a job producing tax forints on the farm. And then we came to the proposals on employer benefits in agriculture. It is said that employers should receive a 14.5 percent discount up to HUF 100,000 gross wage. I think it's right for the government to reduce the cost of living work. It is already considered that, let us say, only in agriculture, or in general, everywhere. That's part of the question. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The other part of the question is why up to 100 thousand forints, when the minimum wage in Hungary is more gross - gross! - 105 thousand forints, the guaranteed minimum wage is 122 thousand forints in 2015. No, say, should we think about the amount of the guaranteed minimum wage? We will make an amendment to it. I hope that rationality will take you in this direction, too, so that, at least until then, we will try not to support forms of employment and employment wages below them, but at least to pay up to the guaranteed minimum wage. The other one, as I just said, is this to be done only in agriculture? Or should it be global, in practice, in terms of the number of employees in the low income range, such as reducing the employer's burden on living labour? I think it's more like this. And the third aspect of this story is that if employers have to pay less contributions, then there should also be a consequence of this, which is that the employee will benefit from this story. The word is translated: the employee should earn more earnings! The fundamental problem is that in the last five years you have built a world where, as an example, those public workers who are good for you as a subject of statistics have been trampled, kicked, because they have been given 47,000 forints instead of 60 200 forints, and there is one who would have pushed a little goat and mushrooms next to it; now we are talking about 52 thousand forints of this money for them. So if we look at what this is worth compared to the 2010 money, then we see that the wages of the public workers are worth one third less than in 2010. That's what you took from the public workers. And the minimum wage that they are always so proud of is how much they have increased: you know, the gross of it has increased - yes, the gross of it to learn - the purchasing power value today was 5 thousand forints less than in 2010. [[To the intervention of Gyula Vantara:]] Count it. Count it, fellow Member, and you'll find out. But it could also be said that employees in higher income bands, such as civil servants and civil servants, have suffered to live their second government period in an unprecedented manner over the last five years, and their salary base has not changed for a penny, HUF 38 650. There has not been a single government cycle since the moment of the change of regime where the civil servant's salary fund would not have increased! [[16.00]] Now, under the auspices of the Orbán government, it has not grown so far in the previous period, nor in this cycle. [[Gyula Vantara intervenes several times.]] Well, they should be proud of the wages they give people - the quotes - how and how they are taken from them. Press the button, my fellow Member, and then we will be able to discuss it in more detail, and I cannot hear the mumbling so far. So, the point is, on the one hand, you promised new jobs in the economy, you promised more wages to people, and on the other hand, the consequence or consequence of this is that the number of jobs in the economy has not increased, and on the other hand, the people working in the lower incomes have come home with less money. It is understandable that you are troubled by your conscience, and that you are trying to do something, now giving employers a small contribution allowance, but I do not see the other part of it as more money for the employee, because it is necessary to give the employer a helping hand, yes, but the worker must be able to live to produce tomorrow. In addition, I must add that Hungary is one of the highest countries where wage withdrawal is one of the highest, the fourth highest in the OECD countries with a 49 percent withdrawal. Here are the surrounding countries, here is the Czech Republic, where it is 42 percent, Slovakia, where it is 41 percent, Poland, where there is 36 percent withdrawal. There would be something to learn in this regard, not a 49 percent withdrawal. I have to say that this has been just peaked by the fact that for people in the most difficult situations, the rate of VAT has been raised to 27 per cent; they have won a world summit, they should be proud of it; they are crippled, because, you know, in terms of low incomes, the proportion of basic food and living costs is obviously higher than this rate in terms of income. In this sense, with every measure you've taken, you've made it difficult for the process to evolve, precisely where you're supposed to provide a helping hand, to deepen further implacability. It is no coincidence that there are as many poor and as many people living on the stage of poverty in Hungary today as there are. Compared to this process, what you've been doing for five years, what you're about to do within the framework of this bill, I can say with a calm spirit, is zero equivalent. It affects about 20-25 thousand people, but it doesn't directly benefit or yield to them, but to employers who employ them, which, of course, can bring so much benefit that perhaps the security of the job retention is a little bit stronger. This is important, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a very partial, very partial thing that you are doing now in connection with the draft law. They think about how they intend to deliver on their basic promises, whether in terms of increasing employment or in terms of wage growth. And don't just think about it, just do it for him. And especially for those who are most in need. Mr. President, thank you.
u2015-04-28-88	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-04-28-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the government has been working continuously to strengthen the work-based society rather than the distribution of aid. One of the tools for this is to increase the number of workers as far as possible by reducing contributions and taxes, increasing employment and improving the livelihood of families. This is particularly true and very helpful for those employed in agriculture. In the sector, most work-loving people with low education, unskilled people, are located and provide a livelihood for their families. Unfortunately, however, there are not always enough jobs, since businesses cannot manage to increase the number of jobs. This can be helped by the 2011 CLVI on the amendment of certain tax laws and related other laws that we are discussing. Amendment of Act 1 through changes in tax incentives applicable to workers in agricultural employment. In the case of employment of workers aged between 25 and 55 in the agricultural occupation, the employer may apply a 14.5 per cent discount from the social contribution tax charged to him, which is roughly half instead of 27 per cent. The discount is payable on gross wages, up to HUF 100,000. The benefit may be applied for a whole month if the worker is employed in agricultural work throughout the month. In respect of the months in which the worker reaches the age of 25 and 55 years, the benefit shall not be available, given that other benefits may be granted for workers under 25 and over 55 years of age. In the past, the tax credit instrument was not effective enough, did not fulfil its true task, significantly stimulated tax secrecy, and did not improve the situation of the most deprived. On the other hand, the benefits from the social contribution tax and vocational training contributions introduced by the job protection action will increase the chances of employment for those in need more effectively, and will not encourage leasing, as they will not be carried out with higher wages.In February 2014, the government provided HUF 9 billion 599 million in job protection, which increased by HUF 1 billion to HUF 10 billion in February 2014 to HUF 673 million. Over the past few years, the government has changed and broadened the framework of the job protection action, providing an increasing benefit to those affected. The main aim of the changes was to improve the labour market situation of young people. From 1 January 2014, the employer shall be entitled to a reduction of the burden for five years instead of three if he employs at least three parents with children. At the same time, it also provides a discount for start-ups: in the case of a worker under 25 years of age, the employer is entitled to a full employer tax exemption, i.e. 28,5 percent discount. It is important to create a new opportunity for those who are permanently registered as job seekers. In their application, full employer tax exemption, i.e. 28,5 per cent, is available during the first two years of employment, while in the third year 14.5 per cent is available. Similarly, the rate of the benefit for mothers is very important, 28.5% in the first two years of employment and 14.5 percent in the third year. For mothers with at least three children, the discount is 28,5 per cent in the third year and 14.5 per cent in the next two years. The programme launched by the government involves a wide range of circles and contributes to value creation and the growth of families in practice. As a result, of course, workers also benefit, businesses also benefit, and the whole country in this way. I would like to suggest to my fellow Members that they support the bill before us, and that they also vote in favour of improving the living conditions of agricultural workers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2015-04-28-90	I now give the floor to János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-28-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik, as always, has a constructive attitude in the Parliament, because what moves forward the situation of employment, which helps to preserve jobs, we have always supported it, so that the effective tax burden on employment will be reduced as a result of the work of the Parliament. However, I think it is important to say that a number of correct statements have been made here on behalf of pro-government representatives, for example, my fellow Member László Földi said that the institution of the tax credit was not good within the Hungarian tax system. My fellow Members, I ask that you read the study of the chief analyst of the century's end, which is too far from the government. This showed that about 70 per cent of workers suffered a wage loss, a loss of income because of the tax credit and other tax policy measures that had taken away income from them and the transfer of income to 20 per cent of employees with the highest income. Here the researchers of the Századvég quantified: more than HUF 500 billion was received by ten percent of the highest-income employees from the single-key tax system. So when we have to fight the battle of how we want to transform and restructure the tax system, we have to point out that, yes, there is no doubt that the budget has renounced some of the money, it has not collected it from its citizens as a tax, but on the other hand, the lower-income workers have been hit by the Orbán government over the past period, and this has certainly had very tangible consequences. It is also important to say when it comes to the issue of job protection that, of course, it is necessary to protect the current jobs, of course, to reduce the tax burden for both companies and employees, but it is also very important to know what else was said as a promise in the 2010 election programme. Let me quote what my colleague Nándor Gúr has already said, and let me also make a clarification. It was not only about creating a million new jobs, but also about creating one million new jobs in Hungary. This was in Fidesz's 2010 election programme. In comparison, my fellow Members, we are unfortunately not standing at all. What we are currently seeing is that the government spends 270 billion forints of public money this year trying to cosmetics employment statistics on the public works system. What came out of it? If the government had tried to tackle rural unemployment by launching and bringing the public work system to life by providing people with meaningful productive work, this would have been a goal that Jobbik would support to a large extent. Think about it, fellow Members, there are currently over 200,000 public workers in Hungary. When this country was not led by politicians who were thinking in government cycles of four years, but by statesmen, a similar number of cobicians, known as public workers, took place in the first half of the 1800s, large projects such as the price regulation of the Tisza River, 400 river bends, and a meaningful investment was made by these people. If we now ask the government who of the 200 000 public workers is working in agriculture, what production is going on, what production is being made by these people, then they cannot answer it, with a noble simplicity, because practically intelligent production is not done in an organised way, at national level within the public works system. What are we looking at? On the one hand, the budget waives its tax revenue by providing tax relief to workers - I say once again, Jobbik can support this - and on the other hand, there is no economic cover to achieve additional benefits, higher wages and net wages within agriculture, which is because the government has no concept of how to operate, for example, the public works system. I ask my fellow Members the question: what would happen if this 200 000 public workers were to produce basic food for themselves, their families, local catering, kindergarten, school, mayor's office and other public institutions? Here's what's gonna happen. The country's capacity for self-sufficiency would be increased, for example, there would be no absurdities that Hungary needs even potatoes to be imported, we have to export potatoes for several years, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not produce enough. [[Font Alexander: Import.]] or sorry, import, thank you very much for the amendment; so we have to import potatoes, because we do not produce enough of them, and of course there is no Hungarian basis for goods when the government goes abroad to negotiate, because we do not produce products that could be of any interest to our foreign partners. It is also important to see that it is also important to recreate within the agricultural food industry the frameworks that have previously solved the employment of thousands of people. Here is just a parentheses note to see how much loss Hungary has suffered in the last 25 years of untalented government: only half a million jobs have disappeared in agriculture since the change of regime. There are half a million fewer jobs, and the main reason for this is not that the tax burden has changed one way or another, but that the government has created a framework - any of which we can talk about since the change of regime - within agriculture, which simply was not worth having people employed, there was no profitable mass transformation of agricultural production. It is also important to see that when the government says that it leaves 232 billion forints in the framework of the job protection action plan, it does - once again - only that the budget will give up part of its revenues, but on the other hand there is no general concept of how the government will strengthen production, how to run this sector. Speaking of agriculture and tax systems, let me tell you what Jobbik's solution would be to resolve problems within the sector. We have said that we would like to introduce a tax system to support production against a single-key tax system which is unfair and which does not change the expectations, a tax system that would focus tax incentives on tourism channeling foreign income into industry, agriculture and our country. We would give priority to these sectors, in these sectors we would like to achieve a significant reduction in the effective tax rate and thus provide incentives not only for workers but also for employers to create new investments in industry, agriculture and tourism. The model used by the government, the model represented by the government, has apparently not worked since 2010, and the single-key tax system could not substantially whiten the economy, could not increase employment; unfortunately, the economic impact of this was very, very small. However, with Jobbik's solution, we can improve by strengthening production sectors, consolidating economic funds, where we have the greatest weaknesses and where we can really achieve the growth of the common good, a significant increase in people's employment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-92	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-04-28-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I looked at the bill, I listened to the rapporteurs, and if it were so simple to ask whether we should reduce the contributions of agricultural workers to the employer of those aged 25-55 and thus increase employment, the short answer would be yes. The aim itself is to be supported, and you can agree with the goal itself. Accordingly, we are trying to be constructive in the further process of the legislation. Then we would be pleased if we could vote in full on this proposal, but I would like to thank you for some reservations, Mr Secretary of State. [[16.20]] First of all, this legislation focuses partly on what was said here in the presentation that the white economy or fully clean employment should increase and improve the aspects of employment. I'll tell you what I have in mind about this. If the government sets a ceiling on how long this discount can be used and, in the case of the legislation, it will affect employers to how long they want to employ people. In agricultural employment, higher wages can be achieved in a large number of cultures, i.e. in a large part of intensive cultures. If the government did not put it that way, but said that such a discount could be used between the gross salary of HUF 100,000 and the salary of HUF 150,000, then we would encourage employers to pay a fairer wage to their employees. Therefore, this rule could be used to ensure that the number of people employed in agriculture increases not only from a legal point of view, but also to make the income of those working there fairer. This would reduce peak incomes, i.e. which are very high, because this is what it would encourage and raise those who are now, let's say, declared at minimum wage and would increase the chances of having employment outside the minimum wage in agriculture. So this is the first thing that if we did it, we would consider it in the legislative process. The second is obviously who should be given this discount. We clearly see from the statistics that agricultural production has a very high proportion of primary producers and self-employed people. At the moment, this benefit can be used in this codified version for employees. This means that if there is a person who owns, say, 300 hectares of land, it does a social enterprise, a kft., and announces himself, he can avail himself of the discount, while if he does the same as an individual entrepreneur, he cannot avail himself of this discount. So it would obviously be good if the legislation also took into account that the employment system of agriculture consists of a large number of such self-employed or self-employed people, who, let's say, as a self-employed person, should also have the background to maintain employment, because there is no meaningful difference between doing a social enterprise and employing themselves and the status of a self-employed person. Legally, or according to the economic law, and from a tax point of view, but in terms of employment, it is also a job in this sector. It would be good if this could be extended to self-employed people. It could be extended to those self-employed people working in agriculture who can make use of it. And here's the third point that I'd consider myself if I made one of these. It has been said to my better fellow Member how the number of people employed in agriculture has decreased since the change of regime. This has been halved in roughly the last ten years, and obviously the government has at least the aim of increasing this employment in words. I say that only in words, because in the national rural strategy there is an increase in employment, but it has just been demonstrated today that they have completely broken up with the national rural strategy, so that it does not matter what was written in 2012. However, if the government did have such an objective, account should be taken of how much employment is achieved in terms of land efficiency, i.e. on a specific agricultural land. For as long as we give this discount to small and medium-sized farmers who are self-employed or can employ one or two employees, it is very, very good. As long as we give it to employers who achieve a high level of employment in a unit area, so let's say they employ one person per 20 ha in a larger economy or something like that, it's also in the right place. But from then on, if large and large enterprises are able to use this, who, despite your reduction in the amount of aid, are still a large plant, they will give the big one a virtually additional competitive advantage in terms of employment. So I would definitely put a limit on who I wouldn't give this discount to, and I wouldn't give it to those plants where, let's say, one job per 50 ha doesn't meet at least. Or those who do not have this condition, because it can happen for self-employed people, but if they have a higher number of employees, they should not hold a hundred people on a salary of 100 thousand forints, perhaps on a thousand hectares. I don't know how understandable I am, but I would certainly make it possible not to use it unlimitedly for anyone, because it is obviously very good if the government helps and supports employment, but it doesn't matter what competition rules this affects in terms of the economy or the sector. It will have an impact on the rule that if a small farm of one or two people in agricultural production has to compete with a larger economy where there is higher employment, where this percentage or this HUF 14 500 - I think if I remember correctly - will mean much more as a subsidy if it applies to many people. So these three aspects are what I am sure I would have taken into account in the legislative process when I wrote the proposal. Then I'll tell you the official position of our party, until now, I've had my own impressions. The bill introduces tax relief for agricultural workers by extending the action plan for the protection of jobs. A 14.5 percent reduction in gross wages, up to a maximum of HUF 100,000, can also be applied to workers aged between 25 and 55 years without a time limit. According to the government's calculations, this would affect about 30-35 thousand people and employees, leaving HUF 6 billion to employers. The justification is that the extension of the job protection action plan aims at whitening agriculture and helping simplified workers to a permanent, declared job. We have some doubts as to whether this tax reduction will be sufficient incentive to obtain a permanent, declared job for those currently employed in a simplified legal relationship, we consider the proposal justified and we are happy to vote for it. Overall, our party has encouraged me to support any initiatives by the government that reduce the burden on labour. This is broadly in line with LMP's policy, and we are saying the same thing all the time, so that if the government wants to do something for small and medium-sized enterprises, employers and, most importantly, people, and wants more money to stay in people's pockets, these burdens should be reduced. Perhaps this proposal shows that the government has also noticed how bad the employment situation in agriculture is. I recently asked a written question to personal Sándor Fazekas. I asked him in writing how he got the 21,6 percent increase in employment in agriculture between 2010 and 2014, because we didn't get this figure, no matter how we looked at these KSH statistics. It turned out from the Minister's written reply, which he gave, that he compared the first quarter of 2010 with the last quarter of 2014, which obviously does not give a real picture of employment due to seasonal work, since it covers two completely different periods. If we compare the right quarters, but there is an increase of almost 10 percent, so the fact that there has been a specific increase in agricultural employment since 2010 is a fact. I mean, I was surprised by this number, and I wouldn't have bet that this happened, but in any case, KSH's data supports that. I have two main comments on the contribution reduction; one of them is that the benefit alone will not be able to improve the employment situation of agriculture, and that would require a reform of agricultural subsidies in particular. Obviously, the government would have to take much more steps to achieve this. I have made a number of proposals earlier in the context of the reform of the Land Traffic Act or agricultural employment opportunities, which would create this type of employment obligation on hectares or whatever, which is interesting because, as I recall earlier in Fidesz, it is possible that there should also be an employment obligation for the cultivated land. This has been taken away from many professional aspects, but such thinking can do much to improve the impact of agriculture on the employer. The most important resource in the countryside is agricultural land, because it is not able to create jobs on its own in its current system of use. It is increasingly difficult for small farmers to obtain agricultural subsidies and agricultural land, which is a basic condition for farming, and the system helps to strengthen and grow large estates. Unfortunately, statistical data continue to support this, so the 2014 grant data also show that the number of large estates in the single MVH application is much higher, which in itself would not be tragic, although it is a bad enough trend if they involve very serious employment, but the problem is that the large estates are growing so that the growth in employment is not achieved. It is clear from the application system for public land or from the law, but the redistribution of agricultural subsidies has also benefited large owners. Fidesz's 2010 promise, which was also published in the national rural strategy, will mainly strengthen small and medium-sized family farmers and businesses. However, based on the experience of recent years, it is clear that this is contrary to the measures. From 2015, area payments were removed from holdings of less than 1 hectare, which are most capable of labour-intensive farming, such as eco-management. At the same time, more and more public money migrated through the agricultural support system to the agricultural billionaires, as in 2013 and 2014 the government became close businessmen or independent billionaires, but in any case large capitalists: Zsolt Nyerges, Simicska, Csányi, Leistinger, and companies and groups of companies belonging to these interests received the most agricultural subsidies. [[16.30]] Zsolt Nyerges alone was able to pump a total of HUF 6 billion of state aid out of the rural development register in 2014, with nearly HUF 800 million more than in the previous year. This shows the effectiveness of the Fidesz measure. The Csányi empire could also pocket 6 billion forints of public money. This is what I referred to as the Secretary of State at the beginning of my speech, that I would indeed look at who needs this contribution, because with the size of the plant, with such aid rates, I could indeed do that they would achieve significantly higher employment without any benefits, at the expense of taxes, and a much more important target group would be the group of self-employed individual enterprises. The situation in rural Hungary, including small settlements, is worsening, and one of the main reasons for this is the incorrect agricultural support system. Due to the distorted distribution of agricultural subsidies, not the small owner, but the already too widespread large estates will continue to grow. The agricultural support scheme does not support cooperatives of small and medium-sized farmers and employment within this framework. The contribution allowance for agricultural employment will therefore be limited in itself if the current system of use of agricultural land is not changed. Also, if I may, Mr State Secretary, I would like to point out to you the previous better motion which, by creating the integration law, would have introduced appropriate operational regulation. This has not been included in a series of subjects, but it could be used to detect how legal persons linked to a natural person pump down a significant part of the aid without contributing to employment. The application of this or the application of such a rule, which was planned in conjunction with the cooperative law at the time of the adoption of the Land Traffic Act, could create a background for agricultural employment not only to become white but also to increase significantly in its number. Obviously, it is also a very important aspect of the proposal that concerns the action plan for the protection of jobs itself. We hear regularly from the government about the success of the action plan. As we know from the statements, in two years the state left HUF 222 billion in business, and about 100,000 companies shared this amount. All of this helped to employ over 800,000 people. More than 800,000 persons, i.e. more than 42 percent of those employed by the competition sphere, according to the data of KSH. This means that more than 42 percent of the competition sector is in need of this type of job protection action programme support, which is thoughtful because we are not talking about a small part. As a success, the government notes that employers use help from the state almost half of today's market jobs. We have already said before that the high number of people who benefit from contributions is not a success at all, but an indicator and indicator of a serious problem. It shows that without support, the burden on work would be very high. According to OECD data, Hungary is ranked fourth in terms of the proportion of public withdrawals charged to wages. How good it would be for us to do so not only with such small measures but also in general in order to change that. The 49 percent withdrawal is the second highest in the OECD countries for low-income earners. For example, for the average wage, the total cost of a net salary of HUF 155 700 is almost double the cost for employers, over HUF 300 000. If I may, Mr Secretary, I will continue my thoughts from here in a proper speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-28-94	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-04-28-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Volner has been involved in public employment. All the things that I have said have been confirmed, and I would like to add to this thought, which is about the fact that a large number of tasks could also be carried out within the framework of public employment that could then move people from public employment to agriculture. Think about it, I'll just give you the headlines of how much Hungary has a forest area, how much is the European average, how many hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest could be planted, which is not only about planting, but also about bringing out the spawn, much more about everything else, so at different stages of the year. Think about whether, in the north, where the Tisza flows into the country, it could be possible to build huge reservoirs by hand, with the help of hand, so that Szeged would not be flooded, if the irrigation system of the Great Plain could be developed, where virtually a type of agricultural activity could be pursued afterwards that produces virtually marketable products. Of course it can, it can, it just has to work, it's work. In the course of five years, we have made many such and similar proposals and have not moved in this story. If they are lucky, they still have three years to do something about it and thus help people who can get into agriculture and, as a complementary activity, increase the number of agricultural employment, with such contributions, in a more favourable position. That's something to think about. But if the lead speakers on the Fidesz side are talking about making tax cuts and tax cuts, then their fucking world record VAT, that 27 percent, should be reduced, because that's what helps people who live their lives in tight conditions. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-28-96	No one has applied in writing, but now Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has pressed a button. You have the floor.
u2015-04-28-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My apologies, but I will continue to think about why, because of the tax system in Hungary and the burden on labour, the levies and taxes on employers, workers are generally disadvantaged by everyone who has employed and why the job protection action programme requires such a high percentage of its application in the business or economic sector. The success of the action plan is, in fact, obviously the result of a single-key tax system, since it is what determines that the tax system has become fundamentally unfair and that the application of it completely upsets the system of how these laws should be applied. Obviously, our party's view remains that the single-key tax system is extremely unfair, not thoughtful, not well employed, and such measures are necessary because they are stubbornly insisting on maintaining it. In the LMP staff's anti-poverty package, we proposed this by introducing a progressive tax system, reducing the contributions of employees and small businesses. Recently, when Antal Rogán announced that, next year, personal income tax will be reduced by 1 percent, from 16 percent to 15 percent, we said that again this will not help the layers of workers who live very badly. Once again, in such a spectacular way, the better a person gets, the more he earns, and again, he is not a group of people employed in agriculture. Social inequalities continue to grow in the country. According to the LMP, it is clear that it is not necessary to further reduce the single rate tax, but to reduce the tax burden on low incomes, with the greater contribution of higher incomes. This, as previously mentioned, in addition to improving the situation of the working poor, could also contribute to employment growth and improve the employment spirit of employers. Yet this is not what the government is doing, but it's grating the contribution reduction programme, and it's thinking about further tax cuts. However, how much the economic recovery and employment-enhancing effect of the single-key tax did not work, the KSH shows relatively specific data. A significant lag in Hungary compared to the EU average. Compared to the EU average employment rate of 72% in 2013, only 65.1 percent of the 15-64-year-olds in Hungary were in work, so we were more than 10 percent worse than all other EU countries. Only four other EU countries - Malta, Romania, Croatia and Italy - have achieved worse results than the Hungarian ratio. The employment rate in Poland is 67, in Slovakia 69, in Slovenia 70.5 and in the Czech Republic 72.9 percent between 15 and 64 years of age. More than average Hungary is lagging behind in the employment of low-skilled people: we are lagging behind the EU average in this respect by 17 percentage points. Differences in the country have also increased in recent years: the difference between the departments with the best and the worst value exceeded 11 percentage points in 2013. I think, in summing up what has been said, that the three aspects that I have said are how to highlight those who are not in need of this discount, so those very large employers that employ a lot of goods, a lot of goods, but not in terms of the size of the land, would like to look at this, so that we would help the government's previous intention or its intention before 2012 to put small and medium-sized employers in a little position. We would like to examine whether the self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed, self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed If our lawyers will be able to codify this, we will submit them as amendments; we will see if the government side will consider them. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[16.40]]
u2015-04-28-98	I now give the floor to Michael Witzmann, representative of Fidesz.
u2015-04-28-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree on the fact that the bill before us is an economic revival, in particular to improve the role of agriculture, the position of those working in agriculture, to strengthen agriculture - and we are an agricultural country, in my county, in Somogy County, agriculture has a huge role - legislation, which can further improve employment in the country, including in agricultural counties such as Somogy. So I am in any way in favour of you, and I continue to ask you to do so, like me. Basically, the comments also show that the legislator's good intentions are also noticed by representatives of opposition parties. Perhaps I only felt some arrogance from the socialists on this matter. Of course, it is acceptable that there are other ideas, suggestions for amendments, whether on the part of Jobbik or LMP, but overall I think that we can talk about a bill that improves the situation. Unfortunately, however, from my Socialist colleague Nándor Gúr - I can now say that in a customary manner - we can hear the verb again in a instructive style. In this educational style, he calls on the government to take stock of employment data, to underestimate the results achieved so far in the job protection action plan, and to extend the programme to agricultural workers, its desire and its will. In connection with your speech, my honourable fellow Member, an old, esteemed Hungarian film reminded me of a quote, and this is the film A Witness: modesty. Modesty, Comrade Virág! I would like to ask - even if we have to replace Gur instead of Virág now, and decide whether you want to use it or not - and I think about modesty that we expect more modesty from you socialists. We expect more modesty from you, especially when you mention the situation of Hungarians working abroad. Although this did not belong closely to the bill, it deals with how worried they are about Hungarians working abroad. They do this by having the opportunity to do something about it for eight years. They do this by having a socialist prime minister in the person of Ferenc Gyurcsány who told us that it was possible to leave, here you are, to leave. Then they do so by campaigning back in 2004 in addition to our accession to the European Union by how good the European Union will be, because it allows free movement of capital, goods and work, which is the case, since the labour markets were also opened by our accession to the European Union on 1 May 2004. And we remember the socialist propaganda slogan or film that we can open a pastry shop in Vienna and the rest, but now they're worried about those who are going to work there. So standing on the ground of modesty, the facts should not be ignored by these very good populist contributions here in the House of the country. And we expect more modesty from those socialists, honourable Members, who, let us not forget, have introduced unprecedented restrictions under their governance. From those socialists who took, on average, about a month's wages from those who work in the public sector during their governance through continuous austerity. We expect more modesty from those socialists who have limited the three-year child to two years, since we have already talked about the situation of Hungarian families. From those socialists who have abolished the family tax relief that this government has once again brought back; who have taken a month's pension from pensioners. It is also quite easy to say that the 13th month pension was not taken by us, honourable Members. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't you give it back?]] Then we expect more modesty from the socialists who wanted to introduce both the daily allowance and the visit fee. But I don't want to take your patience. The list is long, and fortunately, or unfortunately for us, these errors have been corrected by the Fidesz-KDNP civilian government following you, or at least tried to do so. After all, it was you who, among other things, left the Hungarian families to have the banks, in a way that has never been seen before, in Europe, actually flooded Hungarian households. And it was also you, honourable socialists, who, by 2010 - no matter how much you shake your head, Congresswoman - put this country in a state-slaughter situation. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Who tilted the forint after 2010?]] After that - then ask for a word, and then you will have the opportunity - from the current government where we stand with a million jobs, it seems a little absurd. By the way, I also thought it was a deliberate slippage in my fellow Member's speech, because the promise of 1 million jobs was not for a government cycle, but for ten years. If we subtract 3.6 million workers from the number of employees over 4.1 million, but you say 3.7 million workers, which was in your time at the time of the change of government in Hungary, then that means creating 400 thousand jobs. On a pro rata basis, we can say that there should be 500,000, but it's only 400,000, but there's a positive change. Then you can criticize public employment. My fellow Members in the Socialist Group regularly like to forget that the increase in the number of jobs affected primarily the competition sector and not the public employment increased this amount. And to criticize public employment, I think it is not appropriate, because when the child grows up to see his father and mother getting dressed in the morning, going to work, going to work, seeing this good example, and bringing home a net of HUF 50-51 thousand for an eight-hour employment - which, by the way, is very little, we know very well that there is little, but still more than twenty-thousand forints of aid, which was in your time - and the father and mother do useful work. Secondly, it is quite amazing, my fellow Members, that my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, is also trying to tell the Secretary of State or the lead speaker of the KDNP, or what we are talking about. Because he had a sentence to say to the Member that we should not talk about what had happened with regard to the protection of the workplace. Well, this is what the bill before us happens to be about, my honourable fellow Member, so that is what we need to talk about, which is why we talked about it. And as much as the positive results hurt and bother you, the facts are still facts. And when you are constantly throwing 27 percent VAT, do not forget that while the 32 percent of personal income tax - but at your time, personal income tax was two-key - was 18 percent - decreased in a negative direction, personal income tax at the moment is 16 percent. So the reduction from 32 percent to 16 percent, if I count it correctly, is exactly the half-life of personal income tax, and it is now planned to decrease to 15 percent. When we talk about the fact that corporate tax was 19 per cent in your time, 10 per cent at the moment; when we talk about there being a reduction in fees, you keep running away, we know about gas and electricity, we have paid the most for these in Europe; when there is a bank account, precisely because you have no restrictions on foreign exchange loans; when there is a family tax reduction, there is again three years of child tax, and there is an extra child, and there are constantly improving employment indicators, even if you do not like it, these are still facts. I would like to ask my fellow socialists, because they had the opportunity to prove that between 2002 and 2010, if they could not make use of it, or if the results of recent years have unfortunately proved how they could live with it, at least try to do their criticism on the ground of objectivity, and if there is a positive, forward-looking bill that really serves the interests of the Hungarian people - in this case the interests of those working in agriculture - then we should have partners in it and support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-100	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-28-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, Congressman, when you talk about modesty, I'd like you to hold a mirror in front of you next time and keep an eye on the mirror image, and then maybe you'd be a little more restrained on this subject. [[Gyula Vantara: What is it, the truth hurts?]] [[16.50]] After five years of government, it's sad that they're still busy with the past eight years. [[Mihály Witzmann: The truth hurts.]] It would be good for you to address your own actions and their consequences, the real consequences, Congressman. I wrote it down here fast because the last time he talked about VAT, the 27 percent VAT. I do not know, Congressman, if you know that Debrecent has just been sprinkled with a flyer where a Romanian company advertises that from June to Romania there will be nine percent VAT, and there will be no Sunday closure, so they are very fond of people from East Hungary to travel to Romania and shop there. So when you talk about VAT, the 27 percent VAT is the highest in Europe, and it is deceptive when we constantly spread it between the walls of Parliament to reduce the VAT on basic foods, and you are coming this week to reduce the VAT on pigmeat to 5 percent. It is well known that Sándor Csányi's company was stuck in the market, he could not sell his pigs abroad, plus Lőrinc Mészáros, see wonder, in recent months he has acquired pig farms, and they accidentally reduce the VAT on pig meat when it is known that in Hungary most of the chickens are consumed. And they do so by introducing from September the Healthy Feeding Act, which has been postponed for a year to try to get healthy food in kindergartens and public institutions. Compared to this, the VAT on pork is reduced, and we are known to be talking about the healthiest meat. So a little more modesty, Congressman. I could tell you the same thing. Evacuation. You are constantly pointing to the Union in relation to emigration. Well, when I look at you, I see you're a young man. I have three kids. I don't know if you know that if you ask 20 young people aged 18 years, 19 want to leave this country. Now, not every other 18 years, but 19 out of 20! I don't know if you know, Congressman, that companies specialize in hunting young people in Hungary before graduation, not working, but going to university abroad? They're hunting young people with good skills. Anyone who doesn't want to leave, they're already looking for him to leave this country. I would add that by restructuring public education and higher education itself, they will do everything in their power to get these young people out of this country. You spoke about reducing the tax burden on businesses. Congressman, in the last five years, there have never been as many businesses in Hungary as the four-year cycle and the plus one. Never so many businesses have been destroyed in Hungary! It would be good if these data were taken into account. And I tell you, Congressman, after five years of government, it would be good to talk about the measures and the real effects that you have brought and caused in this country. And I'm telling you, when you talk about modesty, Congressman, it would be nice if you put a mirror in front of you and then say that word. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-04-28-102	I now give the floor to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, for a two-minute comment.
u2015-04-28-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Witzmann! Five years. I can show it to you right now on my one hand. Not for long, because we're about to go into sixth. But the benefit of this country being governed by you for five years is almost nothing. Barely, modestly. Yeah, for you, maybe. Yeah, it's for the moonyard. It's for my friends. Yeah. But for people who have not lost tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but unfortunately millions, to these five years, not to them. Modestly, my fellow Member. Be modest! More modest. More modest, because they're gonna drive you away. [[Mihály Witzmann: Like you? You have experience.]] I don't want to finish the sentence. Do you understand? Don't yell, push the button. Be modest, be more patient. With more patience. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Less would have been more.]] Yeah. Say, fellow Members, less is more. And they're right. I shouldn't have said anything. Because if you don't talk, I'm not gonna start telling you all the things you're gonna have to think about at home. And you'll have a sleepless night because you won't be able to keep your head down with a calm conscience. Or if you do, and you put your head down with a calm conscience, I have to say you're not thinking responsibly. For he has not thought about what they have done to the multitude of men in the last five years. So in that sense, now, in this two-minute comment, I can only say, much more modestly. No more modest, much more modest, my fellow Member. 'Cause you guys have a reason to keep your head down. It's not random that they don't dare go among people. Be modest! More modest. Thank you very much. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2015-04-28-104	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss.
u2015-04-28-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There are only two things I would like to ask for. One of them. In 2006, at the meeting of the Council of Interests - this is the body that you have abolished - a Gábor Wide, a nearby oligarch Fidesz, still favors you, explained that he did not want to participate in the social engagement that was about the oligarchs paying taxes in Hungary. This is what the then prime minister, who I am not obliged to protect here, said, but it is a matter of telling an oligarch who does not wish to pay taxes in this country by the way, that he said that he could leave this country. So not for the people who left the country because of your blessed activities or not because of your blessed activities, the sentence was said, but for the oligarchs who define themselves against the Hungarian people and the Hungarian workers. They do so to this day, however, that they do not want to take their share of public employment nor of public burdens, thanks to the legislative amendment made by Antal Rogán, which has enabled offshore companies in a favourable manner since 2010, since you have been in power to withdraw Hungarian money from offshore companies and take it abroad. Well, as a result, these oligarchs continue to torment people. Well, to these oligarchs, Ferenc Gyurcsány told us that it was possible to leave this country. By the way, I share this, and every oligarch who works against the Hungarian people can go from this country to everyone. People stay here, in this country, entrepreneurs who really feel responsible for the country and the workers. But to make more than such a slick real political argument, please accept, my fellow Member, that I share a short story with you. In Greek mythology, the river god, Hisos and Leiropé, a boio nymph, had a child, Narkissus. This Narkissos was predicted by Tiresias, the sage of ancient mythology, that his undoing would be to get to know himself. This seems to be a contradiction, but we find out what is happening. Narcissus becomes a beautiful boy, who, of course, falls in love with nymphs. However, Narcissus, who only loves himself, but who loves him the most, rejects all nymphs. The rejected nymphs seek vengeance and turn to the goddess Nemesis, the goddess of vengeance in Greek mythology, who helps these nymphs. He listens to the nymphs. Narcissus gets warmed up during a hunt, and at a cool stream, he quenches his thirst. She sees herself in the light of the water, she falls in love with herself. However, because of biological limitations, one cannot fall in love with one's own self - at least as pathologically as it is harmful as you do - so the fate of the poor one will be fulfilled and turned into a daffodils flower. The daffodils are still a symbol of narcissism, which, if you can say a little bit of a real political metaphor, as for you, is a little bit inclined towards itself, the petal, the flower. I'd protect you from falling in love with yourselves like Narcissus, constantly looking at your own water mirrors. Believe me, five years after your administration, the past, I don't know how many years of government you recall, even if you're right about the current crimes, if, by the way, your criticism is justified in some things. [[17.00]] Still, people who have been unemployed for years are not interested in what happened when they might have had a job. And if you take a good step in the right direction, for example, I think it is a fundamentally positive proposal before us, which, for example, wins my sympathy, then it is a pity to shadow this step by putting forward a story that may not have been, perhaps not, as it was, an abuse by Ferenc Gyurcsány in this circle, which may be justified by the way, but believe me, people do not care who you point to, who they can hold something on, who people are interested in having a job, a livelihood, and rural people are interested in having a job. And it is possible to tell my fellow Member Gur to all kinds of demagogues, but I know which schools did not start adult education because everyone left England for the students, or at least a significant part of the children. You can lie that that's not true, but unfortunately, that's true. Everyone in this House obviously wants people to thrive in this country, both in Hungary and in the capital and in the cities. Believe me, my fellow Member, it is not true what you say that we are happy if we can tell you about your failures. [[Gyula Vantara: Yes!]] That's not true, that's a mistake. As a representative of Óbuda, I am happy when I am a member of the III. district people will benefit, and if this is promoted by government developments, I will support them. If it's about the extension of tram 1, for example, that I've been fighting for as a congressman for a long time, the government will do as you promised, then I will definitely support it, even if you do it. So the important thing for us socialists is that people are good, even if you have good measures, we support them. That is why I ask you to leave these arguments, which are about what happened 13 years ago, and because of that, someone is wrong. Nobody cares about that. If you have any specific answers to these questions, please give them the specific answers. Tell me in particular why Nándor Gúr is wrong when he urges that there should be work in Hungary in the countryside, why my fellow Member Bangóné is wrong when he talks about how vulnerable people are in small rural settlements; then talk about it, convince us [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] Convince the voters that we are wrong, because there is a lot of work in the country, and they have done a lot of good to these people, so talk about it! Then argue for this bill that is in front of us. I think it's possible to make a positive argument, so do it. Do not walk like Narkissus, who falls in love with his own image, and then practically live his life as a flower. Don't be daffodils. Try to talk about reality, okay? Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-28-106	I now give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann for a two-minute comment.
u2015-04-28-107	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm sorry to take this chance again, but I'm trying to be quick. I'd go from behind because the three of us spoke to me. I would like to say to my fellow Member, László Kiss, that in the story quoted from Greek mythology, fortunately I did not think of discovering the members of the Fidesz faction, nor myself, but I was happy to listen to this little educational intermező, it was indeed an experience. And I'm really glad that you like the proposal, because you said it first from that faction, so no one has said it yet; I'm glad, and that leads to a constructive debate, I think. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in our keynote speeches, we did not deviate from the subject, both from the KDNP and Fidesz, who did this, was our fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr. And the fact that I would have described Nándor Gúr as demagog, I resented it, because look back at the footage. - I have not said or, of course, wish to put such a word on the Member, because I do not think so. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, may have been a little personal, but he says that we will be driven away. [[Nándor Gúr: You got it, don't be afraid.]] Well, we praise the day with a receipt. And from driving away, I think you have bad memories, so I can feel it. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] that this is a constantly recurring failure experience in your imagination, but let the electorate decide that. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes, they will, they will!]] We do not dare to go among people - I would also like to respond to that. I have held my hundredth host hour this year, and there are 71 settlements in my constituency, and there are no seven honourable fellow Members that I do not hold a residential forum in at least one settlement out of 71, where I do not feel this much negative otherwise. There are criticisms - there are criticisms - but I do not feel this many negatives. And to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, I believe that the past eight years have been delicate. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The last five!]] or we hear or say the same thing in the same expression as the last eight years. The past cannot be completely erased, and the past must be dealt with because another famous saying believes that the present rests on the past and that it is the future. So if we had taken over with an empty zero base, we could have taken over with clear cards in 2010, then the situation would be completely different. And with regard to pig VAT, a quick sentence: I am very happy that there are entrepreneurs in Hungary who join in boosting the pig sector [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This is not what we talked about!]] Since there were 9 million pigs in Hungary at the time of the change of regime, unfortunately it is now under 3 million. This is why the pig sector needs to be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Complaining from the ranks of the MSZP: Long live the pigs!]]
u2015-04-28-108	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek for a further two minutes.
u2015-04-28-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to ask Mr Witzmann -- not to call on him, just to say that he should not apologize for speaking because we rarely have the representatives of the governing party to discuss these proposals with us. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So I would be delighted to hear your opinion, even if you are competing with the MSZP, so that is absolutely... I know it was insignificant, but I would also like it if it were about our proposal, because we were trying to tell you how it could be constructively added to this, so if you would respond to it. I didn't want to mention this pork VAT anymore, but I'll be very happy to send the congressman the statistics on how all other livestock species have evolved since the regime change. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right! That's right!]] and if one of them is still experiencing a decrease, then perhaps this VAT reduction should also be applied there, not just one. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-28-110	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-28-111	Thank you very much, fellow Members. I have to be sad to find that XX. Neither Fidesz nor the MSZP could go beyond the style of century politics. My fellow Members, what you are conducting, it is not about the professional debate, it is about the constant abuse of each other, they are constantly trying to pin the blame on each other for the failure of the last 25 years, while half a million jobs have disappeared. Who's to blame? Obviously, those who have ruled so far, both Fidesz and the MSZP are responsible to different degrees, but they are responsible for this matter. I would have been much happier, I would have preferred that Jobbik's proposal for a production support tax system be answered either by the representative of the government or by the MSZP, by anyone inspired by this debate, because we put a constructive proposal that changes the philosophy of taxation towards production, a proposal which has been very well received by both agricultural and industrial employers, because if some sectors have to be preferred within the tax system because we consider it appropriate to create an increase in employment there, then it is best to do so by providing tax incentives through employment. That's exactly what the Jobbik are suggesting. I would therefore ask that we return to this mutual split in order to assess this proposal in a constructive way, and that, if possible, it is also worth answering, given the fact that the agricultural tax incentives are concerned, that Jobbik's proposal for a production support tax system, which would benefit industry, agriculture and tourism, what is the opinion of both the ruling party and the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-112	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-28-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Volner, invites Members of Parliament to a calm, sound professional discussion, and I think that this is okay, but in addition, if there are already allegations made by my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, which do not stand up for them - I cannot say otherwise, to be very subtle - then it needs to be addressed. You know, my fellow Member, when he gave the keynote speech, he was dealing with employment data, he was talking about them, and the types of questions I began to answer in detail why it was sliding as it was said between Parliament's walls. I think I didn't start it, I started doing the business. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] "My comment was just that from here on out, I think I have nothing to talk about." All I have to say is that, at least three or four times, you do not stand up to disprove what your own fellow Member has said, as if you hadn't told me. But because of what I promised you, to keep your night calm, to have something to think about, I'll only give you the headlines. [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] And then we'll open it if we have to. You know, when it comes to public employment - and this is not far from the activity of agricultural work, because it could also be a person of value-creating agricultural activity from public workers, if, of course, you would go in that direction - we always say and always say that public employment is important, but the most important thing is that the work of public workers should be combined with value creation and not as it is now. [[17.10]] I'm not gonna list examples because I don't want to do repeats. That's part of the story. The other part of it is that you've been lining up a lot of things here, but I don't think you're thinking about five years behind them, they've been ruling for five years. During five years of government, they would have been able to change anything if something hadn't worked out. They could have brought in a new one that worked well, but instead they didn't do anything that would help the process evolve. Look, he's talking about currency loans. Do you remember 2001? Do you know these names, Orbán, Járai, Matolcsy? You probably know them, don't you? 2001 - look at who these people are in 2001, the currency loan scheme starts there. You want to talk about wages? You want to talk about employment? I do not want to, because I have already told you what the situation with regard to wages in Hungary today, what the employment picture is, what the average income of people working in agriculture is. Of course, of course, it is necessary to reduce the costs of living labour that they bring here, but this alone does not solve the problems that exist, it provides a solution on a sub-surface, which is naturally eligible then and in the event, especially if they do not want to pair it with the amount below the minimum wage, with HUF 100,000, as the possibility of a 14.5 percent reduction appears. Look, you and you can't talk about any employment-related action plan, because you're not fulfilling your basic promise. In the economy, in the competitive sector, one million new jobs under the age of ten - and I added earlier that one million new jobs under the age of ten - you have to do this. That was their basic commitment. Most people need work, most of all decent income, so that they can live their lives. Then, when they've done this, there'll be a lot more to talk about. But you are those who, ignoring the opinion of the people, do not engage in social consultations in anything, but only in a self-conscious and proud manner, do on Sunday closed hours, save trades in their own interests, and lease contracts in the way that, you know, you know, they do the madness of introducing an Internet tax. Their leader of the Rogan faction still stands up and talks about the Americans wanting to do this, and in two days, he's going to have to face his rebuttal that they don't want that, but that's exactly what they don't want. But then the whole faction will be silent about it, not just Rogán. What are we talking about, fellow Member? ! Face what you're doing. The system of early retirement pensions will be abolished for those who are insufferable. A work law is being set up in 2002, where the public-employed person - you know, the public-employed person you're talking about - doesn't get the benefits that a person employed in another employment relationship doesn't apply to how many years he worked, and on the basis of what his extra leave looks like, how many children he raises and what his extra leave looks like. They do not comply with basic standards. One night at 2:30, 3:30 a.m., the strike bill as it is? ! While these and countless similar processes have resulted in the loss of 50-60 thousand businesses in Hungary, mainly in the micro and small enterprise sector. These are all employment places. This is true of agriculture in the same sense as I said, in general. So the problem is that you, who have withdrawn resources from health care and education in the order of hundreds of billions; you, who, as we have said, operate 27 percent European and world peak VAT, have raised the amount of VAT to such a level; you, who, I say with a calm spirit, have persecuted hundreds of thousands of people in the last five years by acting impotently because they do not bring new jobs to life; you are responsible for Hungary's emptying, and in Hungary, young people, or even less young people, who are skilled and forced to leave this country. And in terms of income, are you proud to say or say that real wages are increasing? You just don't ever tell me which province you're in. In the upper 10 percent range, yes, it grows there, but in the lower income bands, it doesn't grow there. One of the major flaws of this measure is that when you provide the employer with a 14.5 per cent contribution allowance up to a gross wage of 100 thousand forints, what will the employee - who, by the way, brings home with a gross wage of 100 thousand forints? - that worker is not a direct beneficiary of the story and has no wage increase in this regard. But you're doing all this by not having any kind of social consultation. You're just talking about social consultation. National consultation? They talk and do it when they ask the type of questions that have already been encoded. I have to say, in this regard, I think they are absolutely not on the right track. But we could go back to the time when Kósa, Szijjártó, perhaps even Rogán stood in the forint's subpoena. Remember how the stock market processes went down. Think back when at 300 forints petrol prices they said the government had to go. Check the gas stations, see how much it was two months ago, how much it was six months ago, what the price is now. There's a thousand things to say, but I don't want to. I just wanted to say to you, my fellow Member: I am even sure that there have been mistakes made during our period of government - yes, I am sure. The voters considered when they had a choice. The result of their consideration was that we could not continue to govern at a given stage. But you've been ruling for five years. Never forget, they've been ruling for five years. The results of their five years of governance, their inefficiencies, must be examined. You don't have to look back and look back at 1823, but you have to balance your own five-year actions, and you have to look at the possibility of steering your next three years, what can be done and where to go in order for people to live their lives better. So what I would like to say, my fellow Member, is that, in the context of this specific draft law, which can, yes, give 20-25 thousand people a little relief that, perhaps, the safety of work, is already such that the possibility of carrying out work, the security of its security can be strengthened, because it affects its employer, I think that it can be considered, even if appropriate, eligible. But, as I said, I believe that it is not through partial, partial subsidies that you can get to the solutions, but, in general, by reducing the burden on living labour, you can find general solutions. I think - just as my fellow Member Sallai said - that it is not the minimum wage and the amounts below the guaranteed minimum wage that a ceiling of 100 thousand forints, which does not reach the gross amount of the minimum wage, that the subsidies must be paired and formulated. It is simply not because motivation is indeed created in order for employment below the minimum wage to be typical, or jobs below the guaranteed minimum wage to be typical. I don't think it's in any government's interest to take the process in this direction. Processes should be directed towards increasing the amount of resources that can be reached in the lowest income bands. It must be that in Hungary, where 4 million 300 thousand people have given personal income tax returns in recent years - this does not mean that so many people have worked continuously, because a month has been worked by those who have worked for five days - not 2.2 million people whose income and tax returns seem to be less than the minimum living income they earn for a month. This is what you have to do to ensure that people do not stray from the minimum living income, but are ever closer to, or even beyond, it. For this reason, measures should be taken in the lower two income bands, the lower 20 percent, the two lower decylis, which benefit not only the employers who employ them, but that is also important, but it is at least as important that workers who earn in this income band have access to low wages, as much of the money they obtain, with purchasing power in their hands. [[17.20]] Simply so they wouldn't be miserable in this country. And, you know, it's the biggest responsibility for a current government, so that people don't live their lives in the country with about 4.5 million people living below the minimum level of living; you have to face the fact that there are more families in which the number and proportion of people living below the minimum level of existence are less than the proportion of those living below the non-existent minimum. So, these situations need to be changed. What we have before us in the context of this draft law is, yes, a discount for agricultural and agricultural entrepreneurs, in order to be more motivated, where appropriate, to keep jobs; this gives the worker security in this sense, but does not give him any additional resources, they also have to do so. And they also need to take measures not only to preserve jobs - I think it is important, yes - but also to ensure the creation of 500 000 jobs in the economy, in the competitive sphere, over a period of five years, for their basic promise, the 1 million new jobs! And, you know, my fellow Member, once again I know for you and you that if you can account for 500 thousand new jobs in the economy and jobs that, let's say, are not accompanied by minimum wage employment, but at least above the minimum amount of living, you can be proud. Then you don't have to be more modest than I've been experiencing in the last few moments. So I would like to urge you and you, my fellow Members, to act to benefit the far-reaching majority in this country if you think, if you put drafts of laws between the walls of this House, if you act. And, you know, the vast majority are made up of those who have to live their lives with modesty and solidarity. And from the experience of the last five years, they have to live their lives more modestly and more solidly, because that's what you've measured for them. Now, we need to translate it a little bit over the next three years, maybe, a little bit to make it better for them. And maybe in terms of the top ten percent you belong to, you might want to squeeze the story more. [[Michael Witzmann: Me?!]] Of course! Like this! A little more pressure there, and where the need is greater, where the problem is greater, the problem should be given a little more financial opportunity. And these types of measures, I say again, which, of course, are eligible with corrections, can be made not only and only here, but generally in principle, by reducing the burden on living work. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-04-28-114	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] If there is no candidate, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2015-04-28-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, let me express my sincere joy at the end of the debate, both the pro-government and all the opposition groups considered the bill just tabled to be positive and fundamentally supportive. At the same time, some points and comments have been made in the debate that go beyond the bill itself, so allow me to respond briefly to these points. One of the fundamental questions was whether this proposal, which focuses on increasing employment, fits in with the framework that the government has been following since 2010, the economic policy which was intended to increase employment. There have been allegations that the government or the Parliament's decisions have failed in this respect. Allow me to rebut this in substance, based on both the facts of the Central Statistical Office and Eurostat and the forecasts of international organisations. Compared to the same period in 2010, employment has increased by more than 400 thousand people in Hungary, including 250,000 people in the competitive sphere. [[Dr. István Józsa: Periodically! Nándor Gúr: That's not true!]] I would add that at a time when, after the crisis in 2008-2009, Europe was in a very difficult situation [[Dr. István Józsa: Was there a crisis?]] And we can see that many of Europe's countries are still struggling. This is the environment in which employment data have been corrected. Do people feel it? I think this over 400,000 people who now have a job and didn't have a job before see the difference. Families who can benefit from a family discount can see the difference. Foreign exchange credentials who are trapped in a foreign exchange loan and are freed from this trap or are now free from it do see the difference. Undoubtedly, we have a number of tasks ahead of us, but I think the facts we have so far are impressive. The figures in employment therefore show that employment has not only been increased due to public work. There have also been a lot of negative indications about public work. Is this work worth creating or not? In addition to what Mr Mihály Witzmann said, and to which I fully agree, beyond the work there is also a significant role model for parents to go to work, economic data show that it is possible to do value-making work in the framework of public work. Mr János Volner mentioned a specific example. I fully agree with Mr President that it is already a reality that in many places the institutions of small settlements are provided with public work, for example from local farms, that the institutions of that settlement themselves produce fruit and vegetables for themselves in the framework of public works. So there is an example that this work is value-creating, and I think this has also contributed to the fact that in 2014 the growth of the real economy was 3.6 per cent, and this also contributes to the fact that we can expect about 3 per cent of real economic growth this year as well. So when the honourable Members mention how many companies went bankrupt, no doubt! In a free market, in a competitive economy, there are companies that are formed and destroyed. At the same time, we also need to mention how many companies have been established, and overall, the performance of Hungarian companies has increased or not. Statistical data, not only international statistics in Hungary, show that the performance of the Hungarian competition sector has increased, and I think that this is very remarkable in this European environment, which we are currently seeing. The other general point, which Mr Nándor Gúr said, concerned the tax wedge, referred to OECD statistics; so did Mr Sallai R. Benedek. You are right that there is still room for progress in many statistics, such as employment statistics, even with the results so far and with regard to the tax wedge. But please check not only the static data, but also the dynamic data. When Congressman Nándor Gúr says that it is fundamental to reduce the tax wedge, I have to say that this should have been the expectation before 2010. I report, Mr President, that statistics show that the tax wedge is currently smaller than it was before 2010. [[Dr. István Józsa: Overall no!]] Excuse me, Congressman, I would like to respond to the interjection: please look at the OECD, EU statistics and see what the exact definition of the tax wedge is. [[Dr. István Józsa: I know him.]] Well, if you know him, Mr President, you know that, for example, the reduction in contributions under the budget reduction or the work security action plan, or the reduction in contributions that the bill is now being tabled, they do reduce the tax wedge. I therefore agree with Mr President that this tax wedge is still high, but the government has taken steps in the right direction to reduce this tax wedge, thereby helping to work, and I think the statistics show that yes, this series of steps has been successful. I would add that this is the direction the government intends to move forward, not only with this bill which is before the Honourable Parliament, but also by proposing a 1 percent reduction in the personal income tax of taxes on labour in the debate on next year's budget. With regard to the specific points raised in the proposal, it was a question of why the limit of HUF 100,000 could be applied after which the discounts could be applied. Because this proposal is part of the general discount system for the protection of jobs: there is a limit of HUF 100,000 everywhere, after which social contribution tax or other contributions can be applied, in full or in part. [[17 .30]] The real professional debate is whether the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian economy, is in such a state that it should be a greater measure. Here I would like to quote one of the statements made in the debate, one of the statements made by Mr László Földi. Economic policy is moving forward as far as possible. This discount is to be applied up to HUF 100,000, which, taking into account the figures from the beginning of 2015, has left HUF 243 billion in businesses, and this is the amount that has contributed to the expansion of employment beyond increasing the competitiveness of businesses. This was what the government and Parliament were able to do in a responsible manner, with the general government deficit and public debt in hand, not only in hand, but also as you know it and see statistics in addition to EU rules, the general government deficit has fallen below 3 per cent, and Hungary is one of the few countries in which public debt has been continuously declining since 2011. Any level of pay is applied by the companies concerned, to the amount of HUF 100,000 this benefit can certainly be enforced, and, on the other hand, I think, let me call the attention of the Members of Parliament and of Congress Sallai R. Benedek to the fact that, on the one hand, they are expressing the restoration of discounts, tax incentives for low-income earners, or, on the other hand, if they consider it wrong to abolish the tax relief, on the other hand, it is said that if there were a higher category of income, there would be more people in the larger category; in these two statements there is some contradiction that, before the introduction of tax incentives and the introduction of a single-key 16 percent scheme, almost one third of those employed in the competition sector were employed at minimum wage, at least on paper. After all, we did not have to pay personal income tax, and we are all familiar with the practice where employees were otherwise paid in their pockets from employers. So my statement is that if any tax liability was abolished, it would encourage the employer's side to try to employ as many people as possible, so to speak, in black, and that is what I think we need to avoid. There was a question as to why in agriculture. Here I think that Mr János Volner, as an opposition Member, has also answered the questions in addition to the fact that I have to join the pro-government speakers again. Agriculture is an area which the government regards as an outbreak point in the Hungarian economy. We can also mention that the positive growth figures so far have included the positive performance of agriculture. This is the sector where I think the Hungarian economy, at least I trust, still has a comparative and competitive advantage. This is why the Hungarian government focuses on agriculture with a specific strategy, when it focuses on labour-intensive sectors, when it provides additional resources in labour-intensive sectors. I am thinking of livestock production, gardening cultures, and this step is supported, for example, by the fact that there is no direct EU support for areas over 1200 hectares, and the government applies a limit. It transfers these funds to smaller farms, to farms where employment is higher. I think that the new rural development programme or the new operational programme for economic development, which clearly focuses on the food industry and on the areas where employment is greatest, can be another important step in putting agriculture in place. So part of this series of measures is also the bill that this House is discussing. As far as the question of who is the real beneficiary of the proposed legislation is concerned, I believe that the beneficiaries of the proposal are businesses, agricultural enterprises where the benefit of the employment protection action can be applied after any employee, and individuals who are able to obtain work because of this advantage, the competitive advantage of the enterprise, because of the cost reduction. I therefore warmly suggest to the honourable Members that, after the general debate has been concluded, after voting in favour of this proposal, after discussing possible improvements, we are talking about whether the government wishes to improve the situation of 30-35 thousand people, whether the Parliament intends to improve the situation of the businesses concerned by providing an annual surplus of approximately HUF 6 billion to the said sector. Finally, allow me to draw attention to the fact that the government, as in recent years, wishes to place responsible proposals on the Parliament's table. This HUF 6 billion has its collateral, of course it does not affect the low deficit and the reduction of public debt, so I think that the favourable macroeconomic processes that are factually and numerically supported by statistics, and I trust that people can see it, this economic policy can continue in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-116	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will now follow. The submission is T/4477. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I declare that, as said at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the presentation will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy.
u2015-04-28-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, the move towards a healthier and more balanced growth structure in the Hungarian economy has become permanent, and last year the performance of the Hungarian economy significantly exceeded the expectations, and was also one of the highest in the European Union. The government has stabilised the budget at a sustainable, 3-percent deficit level and has halted an earlier growing trend in debt-to-GDP ratio, and public debt has now taken a downward trend in recent years. The deficit of 2.6 per cent of public finances, which is more favourable than the planned 2014 budget, confirms that the government continues to pursue a responsible fiscal policy. During the period of 2015 the general government's cash flow balance remains positive. The improved macroeconomic processes, the higher than expected pace of economic growth, have thus provided an opportunity to provide additional resources to achieve more important public interest objectives this year, while maintaining a 2.4 percent deficit target and reducing the level of public debt. The expenditure surplus in the bill before you, which increases the budget deficit in accordance with the EU accounting methodology, is created by an increase in interest income appropriations based on the surplus of government bond repurchase and exchange operations since budgetary planning and the loss of returns since then. Thus, these expenditure and revenue adjustments are null and void. The purchase of the bank ownership included in the draft constitutes a financial transaction according to the Union methodology and the balance may therefore be neutral. In view of the debt transfer indicated in the bill, the government debt ratio expected for 2015 under the Act on Hungary's economic stability is expected to decrease from 76.1 per cent in 2014 to 75.6 per cent, so the debt reduction requirement provided for in the Fundamental Law can also be met with a slight increase in debt growth and a debt increase. In accordance with the legal requirements in force, the Government sent the Budget Council a draft amending the Central Budget Act. In its opinion, the Budget Council stated that it did not have any objections to the credibility and enforceability of amending budget revenue and expenditure estimates that would justify disagreement. [[17.40]] Allow me to explain in detail what amendments are included in the bill before you after the summary is presented in numerical terms. These are the following. The government is committed to the sustainable financing of public transport in the capital city. In view of the fact that BKV Zrt. The maturity of its loans is due in 2015, and it is timely to take action to further manage the debt. With the amendment of the law before you, BKV Zrt. will be possible. The Hungarian state's commitment to the debt of HUF 52,3 billion in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of local public transport under appropriate conditions and conditions. With this significant help, the government will contribute to a systemic solution to the financing of public transport in the capital city. At the beginning of 2015, the government signed a cooperation agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Erste Bank, as part of which the State acquires up to 15% minority shareholding in Erste Bank's Hungarian subsidiary. This legislative amendment will provide the necessary budgetary coverage. The agreement can give further impetus to the Hungarian economy through the strengthening of lending. By signing the agreement, the State can become the minority owner of a financial institution that shows commitment to contributing to the development of the Hungarian economy. As part of this, the bank will open a preferential credit facility of EUR 550 million, including financing energy efficiency programmes and the agricultural economy and developing a complete financial package for public sector employees. Ladies and gentlemen. In recent years, the government has always treated the issue of eating children as a priority area. Our goal is to ensure that all children in Hungary have adequate food. So far, no government has increased the source of child feeding to the same extent as the preventive and current government. The 2010 budget has spent HUF 28.7 billion on these tasks of the municipalities, which, thanks to the continuous increase, has already increased to HUF 52.6 billion in 2014 and increased to HUF 58 billion in 2015. The next milestone in the implementation is the expansion of free nursery and preschool children's meals, with up to 230 thousand children eating free of charge from autumn this year. Accordingly, the necessary additional resources will be provided by the amendment of the 2015 central budget. Dear Parliament, In addition, the proposal to amend the current budget includes changes in the following areas. In parallel with the debt consolidation of local governments, the government decided to recognise the efforts of the municipalities which, continuing their responsible management, provided the conditions for the operation and development of the settlement without indebtedness. Within the framework of the four-year programme that started last year, HUF 9.7 billion will be available for this purpose by supplementing existing domestic funds. As is known, the government has supported the introduction of new public service career models expressing the appreciation of public service workers. In this context, laws on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies and on the legal status of soldiers have been drawn up, which have already been adopted by the Parliament. The level of the police and defence salary should be laid down in the Budget Act, in accordance with the provisions of these laws. Dear House, The bill also clarifies the rules on the application for a social sectoral bonus introduced in 2014 so that non-state church supporters who provide family support or child welfare services are also entitled to receive support for the payment of the social sector bonus. The social sector bonus was introduced by the Government from 1 January 2014 to those employed in the social sector depending on the years spent in work and the degree of education, which affected nearly 90 thousand people. The introduction of the sectoral bonus meant an average net HUF 5830 for employees. In addition, the Parliament has also decided on the item concerning the current draft budget law, the action against the terrorist organisation Islamic State. The bill raises the Hungarian Defence budget by HUF 10 billion to support the military engagement in Kurdistan. The key to the development of rural Hungary is linked to rural cities, so it is necessary for all county-righted cities to join the national motorway network by 2018 and to connect to the border. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to implement developments targeted in addition to the integrated operational programme for the development of transport, financed entirely from domestic budgetary resources. The bill provides funding for the acceleration of key road investments, with a surplus of HUF 11 billion. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the budget law before you will help to achieve these objectives. In order to achieve this, economic stability, maintaining public debt on a declining path, a low government deficit, increasing employment and the growing economic performance of our country provide an appropriate framework. In the light of the favourable macroeconomic and public finances developments over the period of the year, it can be said that the government debt rule is still met after the amendments and that the deficit target can be maintained. I therefore ask you to support the bill tabled and then accept it later. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-118	Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I therefore give the floor to Gyula Vantara, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-28-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4477 amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's budget for 2015 We are discussing today's bill. The hearing on the amendment of the law before us may, in particular, be justified by the fact that the government has taken a number of decisions over the past period that require financial coverage of these measures. According to the proposal, the total budget expenditure would increase by HUF 61 billion and the total revenue would increase by HUF 46 billion, in line with this budget cash flow deficit would increase by HUF 15 billion. Allow me to highlight some of the detailed explanations made by the Secretary of State, which are important in everyday life, and perhaps, without the need for completeness, to draw attention to some important contexts. Therefore, there are a number of measures that were not foreseen when the budget was planned last year, which is why they should be included in the budget ex post. Such an unpredictable event was the participation of our country in the international coalition against the Islamic State terrorist organization in Kurdistan. The expected cost of military engagement will be HUF 10 billion, which is why it is justified to increase the defence costs of the military. The state's objective is to support the growth of the economy through the active lending of a more capital-powered large company, committed in the long term to the Hungarian market. In cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the state intends to acquire, as has been said, 15 percent of the minority ownership in the Hungarian subsidiary of Erste Bank. The exact purchase price is unknown and will be based on an independent evaluation, which is why the bill allows for a more flexible adjustment of expenditure appropriations for the acquisition of ownership. As stated in the report by the Secretary of State, in the preparatory paper, the development of transport is essential for growth, competitiveness and social mobility, so the government intends to implement road development at a higher pace next year. In order to allow all cities with county rights to join the motorway network by 2018, and to build motorways up to the national border, it is necessary to provide additional domestic resources beyond the integrated transport development operational programme. [[17.50]] In order to accelerate investments, the government not only generates resources - as said by an extra HUF 11 billion, but also submitted a complex bill to Parliament concerning a number of legal areas and institutions T/4453. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thanks to this bill, the planning and authorisation phases for road development of major importance for the national economy will be simplified and lead times will be shorter, which overall will accelerate investment. The motion before us also contains positive measures for municipalities that have not participated in debt consolidation. Under a four-year programme, they will be able to apply for priority development aid, including road, sidewalk construction, institution renovations, cemeteries and renovations, and the government will allocate HUF 9.7 billion for this year. Debt settlement to stabilise the financial situation of public transport in Budapest in the long term is essential, therefore BKV Zrt. The State will take over its debt of approximately HUF 52,3 billion from the previous period, under the conditions described in the draft regulation. For the free day care and preschool children's meals, which will be extended from 1 September 2015, all maintenance groups will be provided with support for the additional task. The amendment also sets and includes the amount of the civil protection and defence salary base to be introduced from 1 July 2015. The draft regulation presented to the Budgetary Council was delivered by the Council in its opinion. It stated in its opinion that it had no objections to the above measures, that the modification of revenue and expenditure appropriations did not pose a risk to enforceability. The Council also considers that the deficit-to-GDP targets of public finances of 2.4 per cent can be met. Ladies and gentlemen, on these grounds, please support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-120	I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-04-28-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the presentation, the expo, I was under the impression that we were discussing next year's budget. The arguments and developments listed by the Secretary of State could have supported the exposé of next year's budget, but we are not discussing it, but the amendment of this year's budget. We do this at a time when we are only days away from actually negotiating the 2016 budget for next year. We have repeatedly pointed out to the government why it does not think more about its economic policy, why it does not think more about translating it into various appropriations in the budget, why the budget should be amended so often. We would think that if we looked at the legislative proposals of the Parliament one year, it would lead to a huge change in the budget. It seems that the favourite leisure and work activities of the governing parties are also changing the current budget. The question arises as to the expiration date of any budget of the Orbán government, if this House is discussing an amendment to this year's budget in April. What is unpredictable, what is needed to be corrected after four months? Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I have to say that Fidesz always seems to have time to change the budget, but it never has time to do it well once, so that in an otherwise predictable, non-critical economic environment, let's say, a year, and you really only have to touch it at items that are really not foreseen, and in all other cases, try to think for at least one year in advance and not just for the next week, because if you only think of the next week, then often these plans are rewritten by time and need to be amended after a few months. I do not think that the government can not anticipate whether it wants to buy, say, a bank or buy a stake in the ownership, why not know in advance that the government wanted to acquire a stake in Erste Bank. And if we are talking about BKV's debt, not this debt in the last four months, there is no extraordinary development, which was already known last November, December, that something has to be done with the debt settlement of the BKV. But then they didn't think about it, but now they're going to do it by amending the budget. Dear House, We believe that greater foresight is needed in this regard. When analysts regularly look the government in the eye at the unpredictable nature of economic policy, this includes, for example, a number of other elements such as unpredictability, that in cases where we are not going to war suddenly, and this generates extraordinary expenditure, but changes in government intentions, why cannot we look forward for a longer period of time. I could say the same with regard to the development of the road network. Has the government just realized that we need a little more money to improve the road network? Why was it not possible to know this in November, December, and why were these proposals submitted in connection with amendments when the Budget Act was negotiated? Let us recall that at the end of last year's budget negotiations, at the end of the last minute, there was a very serious amount of amendments before this House, and it was generated by extraordinary developments, at least according to the government. In fact, it was the intention of the government to do what is constantly changing, the internal bargaining mechanisms randomly throw the decisions at the surface, and the mere transfer of them into the budget was carried out last year, at the moment after the last, and, ultimately, that is basically what this is all about, and in April, the budget adopted last year will be amended according to fresh intentions. There is not necessarily a problem with intentions, though I will also mention that in some cases we have seen shortcomings here, but why this cannot be decided in time. Why can't you see for a few months, instead of thinking about the budget every time you think about it? [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would like to remind my fellow Members that, in the opinion of the Budget Council, this amendment also holds risks; namely, that, if slightly, public debt can rise by adopting the bill. Although debt reduction is one of the economic policy objectives in which we agree with the government, by the way. When we sometimes criticize this activity, it is precisely that it cannot be reduced to the stated and desirable extent, and now, with this bill, the former government debt can even rise, not only in absolute terms, of course, but also as a percentage of the performance of the economy, which we often quote as indicators. Are these solutions necessary? Is there a need to buy a bank or acquire a bank property? Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that the Orbán government is holding property in the wrong hands. It is enough to refer only to the history of the national parks, because just the other day the Fidesz majority in Parliament has modified it, and indeed, some of the territory of the national parks will also serve private interests. [[18.00]] But speaking of a bank, we also remember the story of Széchenyi Bank, not such a success story when the government could be so proud of how well it manages a bank. As a reminder, he made continuous losses, and over and over again he had to pump billions of forints into it in order to carry out his activities. We see, therefore, that the government spends a great deal of money, a great deal of billions, shopping in areas that are not necessarily from the devil, but just the measure. In recent years, the state has spent more than a thousand billion forints on bank purchases, the purchase of energy companies, and at the same time, while in the competitive sector it has acquired property, ownership, while at the same time the services in which, unlike the competitive sector, the state's primary task is to provide high-quality services, let them be destroyed. We can't say much good about the state of the education system, but we certainly can't say good words about the state of health. While the state has its own tasks, which are not or only marginally performed by the private sector and private interests, we see that it spends less and less in proportion to these areas, while it ventures to the market, spending more than a thousand billion forints to acquire ownership, and this acquisition of ownership is in fact of no importance to the public good, because by means of state regulation, by creating a system of rules, we could achieve the desired goals here in the legislation anyway. Thus, while we believe that money is being spent to this extent for unnecessary purposes, there is not enough budgetary resources to support the government, the social sphere. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear fellow Members, In addition, the proposed legislation has the right aim, if not to the right extent, to support child feeding and child feeding. At the same time, I must say that you spoke of HUF 3.5 billion earlier. The bill submitted will be satisfied with HUF 3 billion. But it's worse than that, according to experts, we should be talking about about about HUF 7 billion this year for a few months, what's left of this year. Compared to this, while we agree with the aim - I will tell you why - we see that the planned measure is unintended to support this ambitious goal. What makes us agree with the aim is that poverty and child poverty have increased dramatically in Hungary in recent years, and society is breaking up at an increasing pace, an increasingly thinner, living elite and a large part of society, and everyday life of struggling people is becoming increasingly difficult. It is primarily income policy, personal income tax policy and social policy, which is therefore guilty and, of course, the fidesz majority that supports these efforts here in Parliament with its votes. While, therefore, in the spirit of combating poverty, we agree with the increase in the amount spent on child food, we see that the extent to which this bill does not include is not sufficient, so we will obviously propose an amendment to raise the necessary resources. It also includes support for the employment of workers with disabilities. I would like to remind this House that, at last year's hearing, when the budget was negotiated last year, the MSZP proposed to increase this amount, we would have proposed to increase the appropriation by around HUF 5 billion, and we also proposed it. The majority of you didn't accept it then. We are pleased that they have partially seen their mistake and now provide a surplus of at least HUF 2 billion. Here too, however, we consider this rise to be insufficient. At the same time, it can be criticised that the government is not taking action on all the problems surrounding the care of people with disabilities, as this proposal is not about the care of people with disabilities living in civilian housing, even though the government has had to face quite serious protests in this case. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Finally, I would like to say a few words about the social sector bonus. Károly Czibere, State Secretary for Social Affairs and Social Inclusion, promised to spend HUF 15 billion on wage increases from July. Well, the bill submitted doesn't include this 15 billion forints. I'd just like to remind the government of that. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In fact, the bill tabled is a new patchwork of the budget already adopted. We would like to see a comprehensive amendment, a comprehensive amendment that radically breaks with this economic, tax and social policy, with the perception that in Hungary fewer and fewer people are getting more and more - I am talking about the top elite - while the least well-earned and ordinary members of society are facing growing difficulties. Unfortunately, all statistics report the increasingly difficult situation and even poverty of these layers. Dear House, The necessary amendments will be prepared and presented to you in this spirit. I'm asking you to support these. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-28-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, I welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-123	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4477 amending Hungary's central budget for 2015 According to bill No. 61 billion forints, the total budget expenditure would be increased by HUF 46 billion, while the total revenue would be increased by HUF 46 billion. In line with this, the cash flow deficit of the central budget would increase by HUF 15 billion. The draft law provides for the following main items in the 2015 central budget as an increase in expenditure: EUR 15 billion of funding for the Hungarian State in cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to acquire a 15 percent minority shareholding in Erste Bank's Hungarian subsidiary bank, to support non-debt consolidation settlements in 2015 by transferring funds available for this purpose in chapter reserves and by providing HUF 3.7 billion of additional resources. Cover for Hungary's military engagement in Kurdistan by raising the Hungarian Defence budget worth HUF 10 billion. For the 2015 phase of the Liget Budapest project, the increase in the appropriations to help people with disabilities to work, the speeding up of priority road investments and the continuous provision of chimney sweeping supplies worth HUF 28 billion. [[18.10]] In order to stabilise the financial situation of public transport in Budapest in the long term, BKV Zrt. contains a standard that does not increase payment expenditure. for the State to take over its debt of HUF 52 billion accumulated from additional periods. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2015 budget has turned to families with the greatest emphasis, considers families first, and we must maintain this ambition. Compared to European standards, the Hungarian government also provides unprecedented support for families' livelihoods and encourages childbearing. We have taken a lot of steps in this area, thinking only of the tax incentives granted to the three children. Later, we expanded the system, seeing that small-income people are unable to benefit from family tax relief, by allowing our citizens to write down their part of the family tax allowance from contributions in addition to the taxes paid. In 2016, families with two children will receive more tax benefits than others. I think it is important to stress that Hungary's largest economic development started in 2015. The development of the Hungarian economy will be able to use 12 000 billion HUF of resources in the next seven-year EU budget cycle. On this basis, taking into account the economic data, it will be possible to change the main items of the 2015 budget outlined above in such a way that Hungary's general government deficit as a percentage of GDP remains below 3 per cent. Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, I can say that one of the important reasons for the legislative amendments tabled by NGM is the implementation of the debt settlement, which also serves to stabilise the financial situation of public transport in the capital in the long term. To this end, the Government considers it necessary for BKV Zrt. the State's take over of its debt accumulated from the previous period. The bill provides cover for the free nursery and preschool children's meals, which will be extended from 1 September 2015, providing support to all maintenance groups for additional tasks. Under the four-year programme, non-debt consolidation municipalities can benefit from the priority development aid scheme, which also set out the 2015 domestic-funded budget framework, with a budget of at least HUF 9.7 billion for this year's tender framework as a separate appropriation. The proposal provides cover for Hungary's military engagement in Kurdistan. The Parliament has decided to participate in the international coalition against the terrorist organization Islamic State, which makes it necessary to raise the defence budget. The amendment also sets out the amount of the police and defence salary base to be introduced from 1 July 2015. Ladies and Gentlemen, The key to the development of rural Hungary is linked to rural cities, so it is necessary for all cities with county rights to join the national motorway network by 2018. In fact, the goal is to have access to the border by this date. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to implement developments targeted in addition to the integrated operational programme for the development of transport, financed entirely from domestic budgetary resources. The amendment creates its 2015 coverage. The amendment creates the necessary budgetary coverage of Erste Bank's minority shareholding in the State. In cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the State acquires minority ownership and 15 percent ownership in the Hungarian subsidiary of Erste Bank. The aim of the state is to support the growth of the Hungarian economy through the efficient and active lending of large companies that are more capital-intensive and committed to the Hungarian market in the long term. The level of the State's financial obligation in this respect is currently unknown, since it will be based on an independent assessment, which is why the bill allows for a more flexible, government-like adjustment of expenditure appropriations for the acquisition of ownership. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can see that the Hungarian government is seeking a commitment that is characterized by the idea that everyone can take a step forward in person, as can their family, as well as their locality, as well as their workplace, as well as the enterprise where they work, and also the country itself. Hungary's economic development has finally reached the point of having a budget for next year adopted by July of this year. This will further increase predictability and predictability in our country, based on the budgets of recent years, but in particular on the figures achieved so far in 2015. It has become obvious that it is worth working in Hungary as much as possible. Hopefully, this will soon lead to our budget deficit being not only below 3 per cent, but also unemployment, which would be virtually full employment. To do this, T/4477. Legislative proposal No. 1 contributes in an organic way. Please support the bill, KDNP also supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-125	Mr President, Dear House, We can take part in an intimate early evening debate in Parliament, where I have to say that only a few Members are paying attention to the very important early picture and the paradigm that lies before us. There are many points to attack and praise here and there - this must also be done in a clear way - but it can be seen that the salad law that has been laid before us is not only in order to shape the decent working conditions of Members who are unworthy of parliamentarianism but who want to work decently. After all, if you tell me that this whole package, which concerns about 25 topics, has been consulted with the relevant experts, involved representatives of the relevant social groups, civil society organisations and everyone else, then I think we can be more part of an Andersen story, because that can't be true. The fact is that in the context of last year's budget, more specifically this year's budget, which has already been finalised last year, we are now being tried to arrange predictable items for which, in most cases, there would have been no obstacle to a fair inclusion in the budget. To give an example: in relation to Erste Bank, along with the acquisition of Hungarian public interest, we have been saying for years how much it would be necessary to have a reprivatisation strategy or a vision that shows what, at what cost, from whom, how it is trying to recover some strategic assets, or to acquire certain strategic elements. It is marked here and now, not to start lending, and not only for this reason, according to your own declaration, they have concluded a pact with the Banking Association to do so, in which, among other things, it was stipulated in exchange for a stronger start-up of lending from next year, that evictions will not be faced with greater barriers than they have done so far, that the Bank can continue to help with the National Asset Manager. This was said at the press conference of the pro-government representative, and the heads can be shaken, but as long as it can be traced on the Internet, unfortunately we should refer to this. [[18.20]] If that's not the case, make a request for correction. I'll be the happiest if it's an urban legend, which, by the way, can be found in countless sources. We have to tell you about Erste, since we started by saying that it is very important here to know at what cost this acquisition will take place. After all, the book value could be between HUF 10 and HUF 20 billion in terms of this share somewhere. But here the price negotiated and the value of the subject of the sale together can determine who is good and who is bad. It is also very important to know the philosophy in which I would acquire this state interest. What do you want? Do you want to create a social bank account along with the increase in the state's share in the domestic banking system? Because then I will support this, and I will vote in favour, if, according to Jobbik's programme, a social bank account is available in Hungary up to an average wage, which will make life easier for Hungarian citizens, with basically zero forints of driving costs, by reducing unjustified bank charges, with thousands of forints per month. What, on the other hand, is the situation? Here, at the point of authorial and keynote level, the justifications were perhaps the most high-pressure people, from the approach of saying here that the previous budget has practically turned to the families in Hungary, giving them such benefits. On the other hand, what does reality show? There it is, let's say, their banking sector special tax, which, according to one of their Members, has already increased the revenue side of the budget by some 800 billion. Let's face it. These items have been published in the budget, so let's not argue about that. It's hard to argue. Only the fact is that when the financial institutions concerned confessed, they admitted in communications, in other forms, that this total mass had been passed on to the population and even went further, in the case of the financial transaction levy they passed on more than the amount of the justified levy to certain customers, then what did the government do? Did you prevent someone else from paying the taxes, not the one you were assigned to? Have you prevented citizens from paying in the future, not the financial institutions involved? No, the government didn't do anything. He made a pact with the Banking Association, the details of which can be debated, but the fact is that the sum of more than 800 billion has been crushed on the Hungarian people. People with families, people you want to help in words. Yet, they allow such burdens to fall upon them unduly. What you have just put before us is the salad robots; a salad law that can only be passed if you feel like a robot and don't follow up on it, you don't think about it, you don't analyze it, because you can't process these subjects fairly in that time. It's very difficult to argue about. In the case of Erste, as I say once again, it would be very important to see behind it a reprivatisation strategy and a purchasing strategy as to why, for what reasons, Hungary's current government wants to acquire. I say that when it comes to strategic elements and assets, I will be one of their most persistent supporters on this road, if this is done with a fair value-for-money ratio, transparently and under normal conditions. We don't see any trace of that here yet. Let me draw attention once again to the social bank account structure that if you can contribute to the fact that the state share is higher in the Hungarian banking system, or, let us say, the restructuring model of the savings cooperatives would finally be taken in a sensible direction, so that similar facilitations can reach Hungarian citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises, I could support this. But in a budget amendment, when it is shown as merit that the next budget will be negotiated sooner, I must mention that one of the supposed reasons for this earlier negotiation, not by me, but by the market, is clearly that you are able to meet the expectations of credit rating agencies that, if appropriate, could give you a better classification. You have also recently communicated a rating when one of the three majors has classified you to the level to which the other two have already done that Hungary is very spinning, performing better, and going forward. I don't want to be the backup fan of this. Only in the middle of the communication games are the numbers, and behind them are human lives. We must say that it cannot be a goal in itself, that it cannot be changed with Hungary's budget sooner, so that it will be better for the credit rating agencies, and that it will be better for you than for them. We have to say, maybe we should pay a little more attention to closing hours and what happens from what they put on the table. For the reasons, I mentioned that someone with low blood pressure may be able to listen to such debates, since his condition is certainly moving close to a steady state. Because when budgetary resources are mobilised for Kurdistan and for intervention to allow Hungarian soldiers to intervene in a foreign country, this can be debated and supported. I would like to ignore this debate now, I believe we have already carried it out here in this House, but in parallel not to put forward a budget amendment that would restore Hungary's border protection, the border guard at least at a fundamental level, is not only ridiculous, but also quite simply life-threatening. If you had been to the border area, I wouldn't assume that you hadn't, but if you had been there, the problem would have been even worse, you would have seen that Hungary's borders were defenceless from the direction from which the flood of refugees is pouring into the European Union. The border of Hungary is literally defenceless, because when I was there in the snow at the foot of the heat camera, which provides 5-7 kilometers, I saw traces of hundreds of people entering Hungary every day unchecked, and we do not know who in most cases are, because they are tearing up their documents, then nobody tells me that the threat of terrorism is potentially not to increase in Hungary. I find it unacceptable that the government, on the other hand, cannot present any means. There is only one measure that they cannot tell us that would affect us in the direction of reducing this danger. The fact that you have now been invited to discuss the refugee issue in Brussels, you have not initiated the trial, you have not slammed the table, you did not want to renegotiate the accession treaty, but you have been invited to a discussion, this alone cannot be seen as a result. Then national consultations will be launched on the issues already decided. Perhaps they would have moved forward if they had appeared in the affected area, had a conversation with their own mayor in Morahal or the mayor in Digotthalm, László Toroczkai, along with real experiences and life-smelling experiences, much better laws can be made for the common good of all of us. So I'm not a backup fan, and I'm gonna point that out again. In the midst of smiles, I would recommend that, in the spirit of volunteering year, Jobbik not only announced that our representatives offer 10% of their income each month for charity purposes - we do not say that this is much or little, we say that we should follow us - but we also offered to volunteer for at least one day each month, so that we have real, life-smelling experience in the area that we form an opinion on here in Parliament. I myself, with Gábor Vona in the village of Ásotthalom, joined the farmland world as a volunteer field guard. We did a regular shift, so we have first-hand experience of the dangers facing Hungary. We do not want to praise ourselves because we feel that this is an integral and natural part of the work of representatives. We would like to encourage you to follow us on this path, and then we can have substantive debates. Of course, this is a detour from the subject before us, I can see that perfectly, but we must draw attention to these very important moments. After all, a life-smelling, fair debate can only be conducted on the basis of real experiences. And we also have to say here that it is a budget that we are amending, and perhaps the next one is going to be designed to help families, and a very important sentence from my fellow Member Vejkey has been said to help to have children. I commend you for recognizing Hungary's biggest problem, which is the tragic loss of population. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that the system of instruments mobilised to counter this is at least insufficient. It is certain that a European Union record, with a 27 percent VAT content, is at least counterproductive to talk about boosting childbearing. After all, the family tax relief that we don't have to argue about will vaporize most of it by the record VAT, the record VAT on child-rearing items, which we could provide meaningful help to these families. So your salad, which I can only say is that salad for robots, if it is voted yes, because a thinking person cannot accept it so, as it is placed before us, could be effective, it could help the Hungarian families lead their lives, if it were included, say, to reduce the VAT content of basic foods to 5 per cent, including a reduction in the VAT on child-rearing articles to 5 per cent. It wouldn't, by the way, seem to cost as much as you would justify and ask. Moreover, much of the amount thus saved is spent on the domestic market and by people with a difficult fate. Well, this is where this extra money gets the multiplier effect, but we're not gonna do that right now. [[18.30]] The point is that in this draft budget, such close proposals to help ordinary people live their daily lives should also be there, so if they want to intervene in a foreign country, there should be a strengthening of border protection, so we feel this strange imbalance with regard to the whole salad and the whole package, that certain acquisitions and interventions are taking place, that the counter-protection procedures are not. We have to say: we can talk about this for hours, which is ahead of us, because it concerns so many strategic areas and so many important issues that my fellow Member Enikő Hegedűs, myself, will obviously be able to live up to a few elements, but we consider it a mockery of parliamentarism that we must discuss such important issues in such a timeline and at all in such a slendrian way. Once again, we must stress that this is a disgrace to parliamentarism in this form, and it is still our duty to tell you and share with you the improvements that could at least make it acceptable what you are about to do. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-28-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill under discussion is an already repeated formula: the government, as in previous years, has been unable to carry out appropriate consultations in the right time, prepare sound measures, and is therefore forced to change the budget again after a few months. One example is the increase in salaries for judicial and prosecutorial staff, which in December was still largely rejected by the government side, and now the possibility of this being included in the law. I remember that budget committee meeting when the opposition tried to line up all the senses in favor of raising salaries, but everything was in vain - and it was only a few months. But it's also proven by the fact that the 10th. In paragraph 29, from A to Z, there are items which correct the wrong wording and inaccuracies of the law in autumn. Again the revenge of the reject, again the dead end of the fidesz legislation, when the hasty has to do everything twice or three times - and unfortunately I have to say it several times here in Parliament. The lesson from this is that the government's intention to create the 2016 budget this spring is frivolous on the grounds that this creates predictability. Predictability can be created if they have plans, credibility behind their words, that they really do not change things, or that they have the ability to put down timeless plans. The Fidesz government is not characterized by either, we must experience this, and even the basis of governance is deception, surprise, sudden changes, they believe that this is how to defeat the opponent. However, long-term success in governance for the benefit of people and the economy requires a very different approach. For example, people should not be seen as subjective, and not as hostile lobbyists, professional and interest representation bodies, but as partners; likewise, employees in the apparatus should be considered as employees who listen to their voice and opinion, and it is worth paying attention to their concerns, which are expressed in relation to the individual instructions from above, if they are still doing so. A great deal of unnecessary work, unnecessary, ineffective and harmful measures could be saved, and the quality of governance would also be surprisingly improved. Turning to the specific points of amendment of the bill: a number of measures could be supported, but there are amazing, almost extreme disproportions. Increase support for social, child welfare and child feeding tasks of municipal authorities 3 million Forints, raise some of the salaries of kindergarten educators or the salaries of educators, or add a little to the social child meal; they are very difficult to establish a municipal fund for non-debt consolidation settlements, thus recognising the existence of responsible management. However, other expenditures are disproportionately associated: the purchase of Erste Bank is worth 15 billion, the Liget Budapest project plus 10.6 billion. Unfortunately, this indicates the government's preferences. I would also like to say a few words about the 15 billion and the Liget project concerning the purchase of Erste Bank. It is not entirely understandable that now 15 billion public funds are being used to buy Erste Bank, but recently, when the Banking Association was negotiating, they made it clear that within three years all the public assets in the different banks will be privateised - so in fact, now 15 billion public funds will actually be enriching private pockets sometime in three years. So what you need to see here is exactly... [[Gyula Vantara interrupts.]] So now it's going to Erste Bank, and three years from now, it's going to be private in some way, and I'm not sure it's the same price. [[Gyula Vantara: Wow!]] - I'm sorry, I didn't exactly put it that way. In connection with the Liget Budapest project, however, the first thing I remember is that there is more to prepare the megaloman plan that started without a settlement, which forced Budapesters to do, than to increase the shameful wages of school and kindergarten workers or to develop all responsible local governments, so this 10.6 billion is a very serious amount for this purpose. Some things about the Liget Budapest project are still worth mentioning because the use of the budget reserve for this purpose is unacceptable to us. This project is fundamentally flawed, because in the first decision where museums should be installed, they did not look through the possibilities, they did not consult either the profession or the people, and there should be a fundamental aspect in a city so poor in green areas that we do not build on green areas. There are so many other suitable locations in Budapest, either for individual museums or for their group - these have never been investigated in essence. Now it is starting to freak out, which has been felt only below the surface: the professions, architects, museologists, local developmentists almost unanimously reject the plan. Two thirds of the people who use the Liget prefer the natural park, the vegetation, the old trees. Neighbouring municipalities are also slowly transmitting people's will: we do not need new museum buildings in the Liget. In total, there is therefore no need to award HUF 10.6 billion, and the ecological renewal of the Liget is required, which costs significantly less. Finally, I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that it would be good to give up the fact that some eligible, positive proposals are being put in place in such salad laws, such as, as I have already pointed out, that they will increase the support of the social, child welfare and child feeding tasks of local authorities, which are eligible and welcome, but always make proposals that are very high in their amount and which are not acceptable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-28-128	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent Members to speak. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi withdrew her intention to speak, she applied in writing, she withdrew it in writing, and she is not in the Chamber at the moment, so we can go beyond that point. Now, however, the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities can speak, and I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a German ethnic advocate. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-129	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte das geehrte Parlament über die Meinung des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten informieren. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to inform this House of the Committee's opinion. T/4477 submitted an amendment to Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 There are only two points - narrowly interpreted - that concern national governments. [[18.40]] In particular, the 10th floor. Paragraph 3 (t), according to which Annex III to the Finance Act In point 1 (c), the words "by local authorities" shall be replaced by "by local authorities, local self-governments" and "by local self-governments." Point (u) of Article 3 of the Financial Act, which states that Annex III In point 3 (b), the text is replaced by the text adding to the text of the local governments and local national authorities. The first of the two points cited in the Finance Act relates to the fact that, on the basis of the treasury review and the audit of the State Audit Office, the amount of aid unduly used by local national authorities in the budget year increases the municipal chapter reserve. The second point relates to the fact that, on the basis of the treasury review and the audit of the State Court of Auditors, the amount of interest due to local self-governments for the use, delay and additional interest may also be paid or paid at the expense of the municipal chapter reserve. In other words, local self-governments have been classified as local authorities in the case of repayment obligations and the payment of any interest due to them. This addition to the regulation was obviously required by the fact that the State Audit Office of Hungary was granted a licence in 2013 for examining local national authorities, which carried out a 100-rate investigation in 2013 and 2014, and the settlement of the so-called results of the investigations had to be regulated by law, which we naturally agree with. At the same time, three comments must be made. On the one hand, if the obligation to repay local self-governments increases the chapter reserve of local self-governments, then the entire III. It should also be amended to the chapter reserve of the local authorities and local self-governments instead of the local authorities. On the other hand, I have not seen any of the more than sixty reports by the Court of Auditors of local minority self-governments, which closed in 2013, which would have provided for the payment of interest to local self-governments, despite the fact that the local self-governments received the various grants they received on several occasions with smaller or greater delays, but decidedly and typically to make repayments. Thirdly, the efforts of the last two or three years to draw on and apply the management rules of local self-governments with an annual income of between 130 and 200 thousand forints, which are mostly 100 million local governments, sometimes with tens of billions of dollars in revenue, are completely unviable. The disproportionate and unnecessary monthly, quarterly, annual reports introduced in the last one or two years, the pressure of local self-governments to use the aid for the year in question, or at least with an obligation, are pointless, unintelligent in relation to local ethnic authorities, contrary to their basic responsibilities. Why can't a local minority government keep its annual support or a significant part of it as savings, put it together for two to three or even four years, and then publish a local historical publication that is important to him, contribute to the purchase of a museum, public collection, landscape house, renovate an existing one, or even set up a memorial at a centenary? Why, in his opinion, do you have to spend the money on less important things by the end of the year or by 30 June of the following year? These anomalies, of course, do not arise from the central budgetary law on the agenda, and I do not wish to say any more, but since the vast majority of repayment obligations are due to this, this cannot be discussed here. In any case, we will do everything we can to ensure that these senseless and disproportionate management standards for local national authorities are amended in the near future. At the same time, the submitted T/4477. The majority of the legislative proposals are indirectly, not only in these two points, but also in more detail, but still directly and to a much greater extent affects nationalities living in Hungary in two further respects. Firstly, the complementary support of teachers of kindergarten and teachers directly assisting teachers of kindergarten is of course also affected by national preschools maintained by local authorities and local and national minority self-governments. We welcome the expansion of the support and consider it particularly important, because in preserving our mother tongue and identity, national minority kindergartens have and will have a key role to play in preserving our mother tongue and identity over the next decades. Secondly, we also welcome additional support for the free catering of children receiving kindergarten care. The extension of free kindergarten meals also directly affects all national preschools, but also all children in non-ethnic kindergarten are in need. I don't think I need to stress either that, of course, in this case, it is not the nationality, but the inevitability label that is important. Finally, I would like to mention, thirdly, the part of the bill that should be discussed precisely because, in its present form, it does not in any way affect nationalities, but should touch on them. In particular, Annex 3 to the Finance Act II. In addition to point 10 of Section 10 of the Act, according to which the grant appropriations for the development of non-debt consolidation municipalities are HUF 9700 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. According to Article 7 of the 2013 Finance Act, Articles 72 to 74/A. Article 67 of the 2014 Budget Act and Article 68 of the 2014 Budget Act The municipal government, which has not participated in or received any repayment aid under §2 of the Act, may apply for aid by tender for the renovation, development and energy modernisation of buildings owned by it, including buildings that serve, for example, kindergarten education and cultural activities. Unfortunately, in this section, local national authorities and national national minority authorities are not included, although, to my knowledge, there was no debt transfer from any national government, none of them was involved in debt consolidation, but today they are the maintainers of nearly 100 public education, cultural and other institutions, facilities and are responsible for maintaining and renovating the property. I would like to stress that we fully endorse the Government's decision to recognise the efforts of the municipalities which, continuing in responsible farming, provided the conditions for the operation and development of the municipality without indebtedness. At the same time, we believe that this recognition should also be granted to local self-governments of nationality and national self-governments which, in many cases, operated the institutions and facilities that were taken over from the local authorities, which were responsible for managing them, ensuring their quality of operation without being indebted. [[18.50]] In the context of this amendment, in view of the short period of time, we still do not intend to apply for an amendment to the 2015 Grant Plan. At the same time, as the government's intention has been clearly stated to ensure that municipalities not participating in debt consolidation can benefit from the priority development aid scheme, we are now drawing the House's attention and asking that this programme be extended to local national institutional authorities as well as national minority authorities in the central budgetary laws of 2016, 2017 and 2018. This is all the more timely since the draft central budget bill for 2016 is already being drawn up, which is expected to be submitted to Parliament within two to three weeks. In view of this, and on this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary submitted an amendment to Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 (T/4477). It agrees with and proposes adoption. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit; thank you for listening.
u2015-04-28-130	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am very sorry that Erzsébet Schmuck left, even though he said things about the Liget project that didn't correspond to reality. In his speech, he said that museums were being built to replace a green surface - that is simply not true. All museums are built on virtually existing concrete and asphalt seas, and I have to say, this is a project that gives the City Park a chance to be reborn, at all times this project gives us an unrepeatable chance to finally create a park that I'm about to give you two visions. One of these images in Paris is La Villette, a fantastic park that, I think, can be an example of XX. The use of large parks in the century. [[Dr. István Józsa: That was a rust zone!]] In this, I must say, there is a house of dance, a house of music, a museum of science and industry with a city-sized building in the park; so I think this is definitely an exciting thing. Another park of 35 hectares is the Citroën park, which was established at the site of the Citroën plant. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's it!]] I also think that it is worth seeing what foresights can be used to imagine the development of this beautiful part of Budapest. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-04-28-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to point out to Congressman Gyula Vantara that I have no opportunity to give a two-minute speech - I have the opportunity to... [[Defiance.]] - 'Cause there's only one congressman out of one faction. On the other hand, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, does have an opportunity. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-133	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Tamás László, My dear colleague, as an architect, let me report to you that he is behind a sigh, and I will tell you frankly that in this respect I will also mention this in my speech, that I feel that the Ministry of National Economy is a little behind, because it seems that certain actors in the Liget project are already thinking about a completely different solution. Now it has come to light that the National Gallery would not move from the Castle of Buda; it has now come to light that one of the museums would be replaced at another location, because, yes, it seems that many have already considered that it is no longer worth destroying the green surface that City Park provides for the surrounding districts. And that this green area is not only a part of the green surface, but also has enveloped surfaces and could be liberated, made active green, it is not equal to being built into it now. La Villette Park was an incredibly bad example, Honourable Tamás László, because, yes, as has been said here, it is a model of how to build a park on a brown field where buildings are actually located, but it gives a very large part of it an active green surface. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-28-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Now, we are going to change the budget, and the government is going to change the budget, and in a few weeks we are going to talk about the next year's budget here. I could say that if we're in the mood, maybe it's a little funny now that we're going to change the budget first, and then we're going to discuss next year. I'd like to respond specifically to the meal of the child. According to the explanatory statement, the proposal provides cover for a free nursery and preschool children's meal which will be extended from 1 September 2015 to provide support to all maintenance groups for additional tasks. At present, we also have before the House an amendment to the Child Protection Act, which amends the rules on entitlement to preferential catering, which we will be debating here tomorrow. On the other hand, the budget increases by only HUF 3 billion instead of the 3.5 billion announced, which includes children's meals. According to the explanatory memorandum, this will provide cover for local government service providers in 2015. That's the amount, but even the promised amount is much less than what some calculations suggest is necessary. About 7 billion forints are reported for a few months this year and 19 billion forints per year. The desired surplus is necessary not only because of the reduced meal, but also because of the healthier eating, since the new cafeteria regulation will be in place from 1 September - after several delays. If adequate resources are not provided, it is feared that parents will have to pay for the introduction of this regulation. A new item for non-state maintenance is included in Annex 9 to the budget in support of the free catering of children receiving nursery care. For those receiving kindergarten care, Annex 8 is amended. According to the explanatory memorandum, this, together with the amendment of Annex 1, creates the 2015 cover for non-State service providers for the free daycare children's meals in kindergartens, which will be extended from 1 September. The specific amount of the additional aid is HUF 9400 per person/4 months. This brings back the head quota financing model, while, by the way, the support for children's meals since last year has been task-based, which, according to the wallet, is more favourable for the maintenance staff. It is not known what this will be enough for, because this amount is based on the 2013 milk quota at roughly the quarter-month level. It is also not clear how to interpret the complementary nature, since, in the said point, the Lyvt. 154. Paragraph 5 of Section 5 also includes those who have already received support, although the support that is otherwise due is not only for the discounted dining rooms. It is also a question of why this is necessary only for non-state maintainers, according to the government. What about the municipalities? Without support, will they need to complete free meals from their own pockets? I have asked a lot of questions in the last year about the food for children, and in the last five years, my fellow Members have repeatedly called attention to the fact that, yes, the government must intervene in terms of child hunger and we welcome the fact that they have finally heard the initiative of the Hungarian Socialist Party and have finally intervened; but we can say that it is late and not enough. [[19.00]] From the current 62 billion-dollar amendment, we can talk about 3-3 to 3.5 billion HUF for children's meals. I'd like to list some data here. According to the data requested, 100 percent of children in the nursery are now eating in the nursery, 98 percent of children in kindergarten, 77 percent in primary school, 32 percent in high school, and 10 percent in vocational schools. Another very important data - and the reason why these data had to be reported - according to 2013 data - because data for 2014 are not yet available - is the proportion of people receiving free or reduced meals per institution. 29.59 percent of children going to daycare receive some kind of support, 45.53 percent of those attending kindergarten, 60.31 percent of those attending primary school, 43.99 percent of those attending high school, 45 percent of those attending vocational school, 65 percent of those attending specialized schools, and 73.4 percent of those attending specialized schools. It is to be welcomed to support the feeding of children of nursery age because we keep forgetting that the nursery care fee was introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government, they introduced this additional payment category and it is to be welcomed that they are finally thinking about children under the age of 3. Meanwhile, it has to be said here that we are talking about one of the most vulnerable age groups, because if we do not pay attention to these children, a lot can happen until the age of 3 if the child is not well cared for. To add, it is still not enough, because in Hungary only 16 percent of children under the age of 3 are in an institution. Less than 16 percent! What about the 84 percent who need a lot of help at home to support them? For children going to kindergarten - we keep saying it there - as much as possible... This aid will be introduced by giving the aid on the basis of self-certification. I think that this self-reclaiming will cause some social tension, and I could say that responsibility will be passed on to the public again, because they do not dare to say - of course, they will set the income limit, but they will not say - that it is mandatory to declare it, but, on the basis of self-religion, the parent will admit that he really earns or not so much. I think that when we talk about small children, we can be so forgiving that if the government wants to introduce such a limit, then all children should have a free meal. If we can spend hundreds of billions of forints on stadiums in Hungary, standing empty and building them unnecessarily, then I think that our children can be worth so much - regardless of the financial situation - to get free meals. The other is that we are constantly criticizing the government not only during this period; although we can talk about the kindergarten and nursery, that they can receive the support for a whole year, because there is no summer break there, but in school-age children, if we talk about children, we can provide a discount meal for children in need 365 days a year. We have repeatedly proposed that the government resolve this and that if it is a basic task for the elderly to ensure a warm meal for the needy 365 days, it should also happen for the children. We have also tabled a lot of amendments to the 2015 budget, and we are going to do so for this year or even for 2016, and I think we are going to submit amendments to this too. What I still have is that just because a child goes to high school is 14 years old, it's still a child, and the older he is, if he goes to high school or a vocational school, he has less and less chance of being in the public catering and the sponsored catering, it's supported by the data. I think that a 14-year-old child is still a child, an 18-year-old child is a child, and he needs to get warm food every day. I know that they will answer that they will take just one step at a time, because they will expand the support system for the youngest children - it seems for nursery and kindergarten children - and they will think about the bigger ones in the next year's budget. I don't think a child's starving is good data. That's a good figure for zero. And there's no good record of us leaving them in the summer. We keep saying that the application system for summer social meals is not good. It was interesting to read that study because we kept thinking that the summer social meal wasn't working so to speak because the Fidesz-KDNP government introduced rules to obtain local products from a 40-mile radius, determining the percentage of the local product to be included. I was shocked to read the study that the most important reason is not that, and that is not why the needy settlements do not apply. They do not apply because in many cases mayors are ashamed of the poverty of their settlement, ashamed that poor children or children in need are in the settlement. Today we are still in Hungary, that poverty is something that mayors themselves are ashamed of. We have repeatedly suggested that, if we are aware of it, we have seen for years how many children should receive some 550 thousand children on a needy basis - some 550 thousand children today receive some support in the feeding of children, or 50 percent, or in the need of child protection support - if we are aware of the numbers, then we should finish giving the aid to the municipalities using the tendering method, but should also be able to provide a much more flexible system for these children to obtain warm food during summer, autumn and winter holidays. Once again, I can say that it is welcome that at least a little bit of a change has been made to this, but I think that is still not enough. The most important thing for the government is the future of our children, and the most important thing is that no child will starve in Hungary. What I can say is that we are going to make amendments, and I ask the government not to be swept off the table, as they have done so far, but to accept our proposals for our children. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-28-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to start there, which is actually one of the smallest elements of this whole amending package, and on which I have just said a few sentences, this is a question of the Liget project. I'll tell you why I should start with that. It is also because the entire amendment reflects the government's hasty policy in this small, two-to-three-line proposal, as the sea is in a drop. 'Cause what's this about? Two or three years ago this idea began, this investment that will come to pass, and according to the Commissioner, László Baán himself, things happen that money never happens, but every time something new comes up, another element, another thought, László Baán knocks on the Prime Minister's door and asks for some money. When, for example, we discussed this year's budget, there was also a question in the press about the fact that the Liget project, Commissioner, was scheduled for HUF 8 million. He said it's okay, and then again, when I need money, I'll go, knock, and I'll get it. And here it is, it has hardly been 2-3 months since the entry into force of the budget, and this Liget project is already richer by HUF 10 billion when, as I said in my previous speech, more and more people in the Prime Minister's environment say that this project is unreal. [[19.10]] Dear Secretary of State, I know you're not an architect, but I also know you're a framed man. I beg you to take a look at Kossuth Square, see the building of the present Ethnographic Museum. I know it wasn't built for that, it was built for the Mansion, but look at what a beautiful building it is. Alajos Hauszmann, former professor of the University of Arts, had the whole history of architecture in his finger. There is no reason why the building was so composed, where the Hungarian ethnography is currently presented in a worthy place. On the other hand, what is planned there, and on which it has already gone about a billion forints overall, and on this many, many plans to hire an office from offshore companies, the preparatory body of the Liget project, is the plan that was selected after a long preparation, as ugly as an SZTK building built in the '50s. When we're planning a budget, it really doesn't matter what we're giving money to, and I think as a lay brother, we can decide what's beautiful or what's not, let's say we're ugly. And it is not possible to say for this building that this would be nice, but it is certainly a worthy place for the home of Hungarian folk art. So I think that this proposal, which you have tabled here, needs to be considered in any case, just because of the underlying project. But it would also require consideration that we want to rebuild a huge 50-hectare area, and we have unheard-of ideas, with a total of 140 billion forints for this big-big transformation, but this is how the financial planning of this is going. I think that we are making it all frivolous, however, as I say, that there is more and more news that they really don't want to achieve it, but this frivolity factor on this issue also reminds me that we know that Andy Vajna is here, too, in connection with the Liget project. And it also occurred to him, for example, that in the Vajdahunyad Castle, he would like to have opportunities there to see why the Agricultural Museum should be the casino. So, actually, I'm afraid this whole thing is a cover story, which is very expensive, and it's costing taxpayers a billion dollars already, so now we're gonna put a few billion more into it to turn City Park into a casino city. In this respect, the government is showing incredible generosity, in a rather incomprehensible way to me, and I cannot match this 8 billion forint with what is the most important element of the other part of my speech, the issue of children's meals and municipal funding. This is two parts that you are about to transform here; on the one hand, child feeding through municipalities and, on the other hand, the development assistance of municipalities that have not benefited from debt consolidation. First of all, let me tell you a few thoughts about having a baby. These subsidies, which you would give each, were calculated to be set by the bill for four months, but if we divide them for one day, we need to see that you are planning 117 forints for a child meal for one person in the government. Now, a man this big [[He's showing it to me.]] Baby formula costs more now, so let me tell you this. It is true that the government thinks that daycares and kindergartens can be fed free of charge, but unless we buy them an expired baby formula, it will not be much use for anything else of this 117 forints. And you're saying that this will solve the problem of local governments, how they're going to provide free food for their children. It is the case at present that for the maintenance of the kitchen and the wages of the workers in the kitchen, so generally for the cost of catering, let us say, the government provides support to the municipalities according to their tax capacity. Only the cost of raw materials is paid to the parents, and I would add right away that we are very much in favour of raising the current limit of 37,000 to this nearly HUF 80-90 thousand, because I think that in the family where a child gets about HUF 3 000 a day, the family absolutely deserves to ensure that the child is fed free of charge by the government or the municipality. So there is no debate between us in this respect, but the question is who will actually pay the bill, and that is the biggest question, I will tell you honestly, because if it is not the government, and we know that the community of interest, such as MÖSZ and TÖOSZ, has calculated that it would amount to approximately HUF 18 billion a year, now you will give little and little compared to that, and then obviously this remaining difference should be managed by the municipalities. It's just how do you manage it, isn't it? The first solution is that nothing is cultivated, but the quality of the meal will be much poorer, and then every day there will be fried soup, but since the EMMI decree doesn't allow salt to be put into it, the children can have unsalted fried soup every day. Let's face it, it's not a very good solution, and it probably won't happen that way. The other solution is that the municipalities will pay in some way, for example, a tax. That's a fantastic solution, isn't it, for example, for the municipal tax, for the people to pay taxes, and then we can pay for the children's meals. The third solution is to announce to parents that your children eat free of charge, but then bring fruit for fruit day and then vegetables and meat products and dairy products, and we will be exactly where we are now, but we are not asking parents for it in cash, but we will be asking parents for the money to eat their children in the form of such donations. So I don't think that's a solution in any way. It seems to me - that the government is extremely generous, extremely fond of poor, starving children and would be very happy to give it - is good, but otherwise not so good as a solution. Of course, you could tell me why I'm here, why I'm not telling you tomorrow about the amendment to the Child Protection Act. I'd like to tell you, I'll tell you there. The only reason I would have tried to bring it to you here is because you're giving it to me, or, more specifically, in this case, you're not going to give me the money, the bill that the EMMI is going to submit, and you're going to discuss it with us tomorrow. One more thought about this matter: didn't you say this 18 billion according to my calculations, or according to the calculation of the advocacy alliances, and here we see that you are, in Annex 2, Annex III? 61 billion instead of the current 58 billion. Well, that's a little over 3 billion overall, which certainly won't be enough. But to move on to the other question, this is a very interesting math example. This is about the chapter reserve of the municipalities. In 2013, when debt consolidation was raging, you said that nearly a thousand or a little more settlements outside the 1956 debt consolidation settlement, which means that nearly a thousand or more settlements will be helped by giving HUF 12 500 billion each year as a source of development. That's what they said in 2013. It was built into the 2014 budget, then it was built into it once, and that it would be ensured for years, for four years; now, this year's budget has failed to include it. Not so much that when we discussed the budget, there was no reputation for it, and then it came up in the budget debate that there were problems with the credibility of the government, and then you added a sentence to the use of the chapter reserve afterwards, which was also about HUF 12.5 billion. I was wrong before, wasn't I? I was gonna say 12.5 billion forints, and I'm gonna confirm that. So the amount was the same as previously stated, but no rules were laid down for its use, but at least this 12.5 was included as a number. [[19.20]] Now, the chapter reserve is reduced by 6 billion, but to the other side, so it's the same thing as Section III. In other words, in the case of additional aid, it is added to the amount of development, but only 9.7 billion. With all due respect, where's the 12.5 billion you promised me? Where's the government's credibility? And there, overall, if we take away 6 billion from the municipalities on one side and 9.7 billion on the other, then what they actually receive is only 3.7 billion plus this one thought. I think, by the way, that there are many points in the chapter reserve that could be considered and, by redeployment, these few billion that are still lacking could indeed be added to helping municipalities without debt consolidation. I'll give you an example. I have mentioned this to you a few times, but I would like to mention it now, for example, this is 1.2 billion forints allocated to the Hódmezővásárhely's expenditure on certain properties. I think it was a rather generous gesture by the government, and I actually think that almost every municipality has real estate investments in one year, so on this basis any of the 3200 municipalities would deserve it, not just the So, now, if we're going to change the law, if we're going to change the budget, maybe we're going to move this amount into this little chapter, and we've already taken another step towards the credibility of the government in a positive direction. Overall, I can say on this proposal that, as a loose haystack, the government is quite complex. And then we'd have to sort out one by one, which one is well-founded, which one would have been planned, which one isn't. I think that, by the way, the above mentioned - I regret that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has already left - is that it is possible to amend a budget law, since the Gyurcsány government itself has also amended the 2009 bill six times from autumn 2008, from 6 October to the end of December. It is true that it also required a loose global crisis, and I believe that there is no such thing, perhaps, we hope, but in any case the way in which these individual items have been put together before us has been submitted, I think that this is a kind of rather poor government work, which I think may be unsuitable for the honourable Secretary of State. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2015-04-28-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The amendment to this year's budget, which lies ahead of us, as many of my fellow Members have already mentioned, really covers a lot of topics. I would first of all touch on two issues that affect the law enforcement and defence stock. One is one that has only an indirect impact, but I would like to highlight it anyway. According to this, in the section of the Prime Minister's Office, the various payments will be included in the envelope to cover the entry into force of the salary increase of soldiers and law enforcement workers from 1 July 2015. This line includes HUF 49 billion. According to the current amendment, which lies before us, this provision must also be charged with increasing the remuneration of judicial and public prosecutorial authors and secretaries. What is immediately striking with this amendment is that it is not possible to see under which legislation, by what amount of money the substitutes for secretaries and authors will increase. And since the amount of this provision, which is on this line, does not increase, it is questionable whether this line includes sufficient resources to raise the salary. Here, I would like to state in every way that the MSZP welcomes everything that gives a little bit to people, to people who work hard in this country, and they have a very difficult time living. So it is natural that, in this way, the wage increase and the increase in the remuneration of court and prosecutors is also a very commendable thing. However, I would like to draw attention to this - and this is something that we would like you to bear in mind, but I think that you may be doing the same - that if this provision is to be carried out with an extra resource, then provide that additional resource. After all, it is obviously a common goal, and I am sure that consensus can be that any wage development, increase in allowances that you have ever promised will be achieved and achieved as soon as possible. And although this amendment does not specifically concern the salary increase of soldiers and law enforcement workers, only the provision in which we can find this, however, in this forum, as we are talking about a general debate, I would like to point out that it is very welcome that this kind of increase in salary for some of the military and law enforcement agencies, which you have promised, will hopefully actually happen. The other thing I would point out is that, in accordance with the new law of service, the Finance Act will provide for a separate law enforcement and defence salary base from 1 July. The amount of these will be equal to the amount of the current public service salary, which is still HUF 38 650 since 2008, right? Here we were extremely surprised at the amount of this, and it was assumed that perhaps - at least we were hoping, I would put it this way - they would provide some additional resources here too, but in itself I think it is also welcome that a special law enforcement and defence stipend has been established. As the Secretary of State said, it was necessary to fix this rate, which is now the same as the public service salary base, but it is hoped that this fund will increase in the coming years. It is also determined by the law of service that this fund may not be less in the following year than the rate of the previous year has been achieved. So here we are expressing our hope that this has not only been established as there is such a stipend, but the amount of this will also increase. Here, I would like to highlight one of the most important questions about what will happen to civil servants and civil servants, since the civil servant's salary fund, as I have just mentioned, has been frozen since 2008, has not increased by a penny. The question is, what will become of over 6,000 people in the army of law enforcement agencies - according to the 2013 accounts, about 603 people - with over 6,000 people who are in the status of civil servants in these bodies. We cannot go without saying that it is thanks to civil servants and soldiers in the army, who carry out essential tasks in the forces every day, that the Hungarian Defence Office has maintained its functionality at all. If it were up to the government, we can see that they are doing everything they can to ensure that Hungary's forces are not functioning. So think of civil servants, too, and think of the need to increase the level of civil servants' salary. Here we stand before the presentation of the 2016 budget, as my fellow Members have said, do think about the need to achieve this wage increase. [[19.30]] And since we are talking about a general debate, we also need to look at the context in which this year's budget will be amended. With regard to defence, it is essential, both in view of the changes in the security policy environment and in terms of the destruction of your governance over the last five years, to increase the Hungarian defence budget substantially. As we have said, the salary increase, if it is achieved, is very welcome and really necessary, I could say that after all these years, it is almost basic that it will be realized. But do not ignore that the stock is the largest asset of the Hungarian Defence Agency, the guarantee of operational capacity. Their appreciation is not limited to raising salaries, they must have a perspective and improvements in working conditions; however, attention should be paid to ensuring that both the state of individual equipment and the state of technical equipment is adequate, and resources should also be provided. When I say that it is necessary to increase the budget of the Hungarian Defence Forces, I do not mean that extraordinary tasks are entrusted to the Hungarian Defence Office during the year, and they provide a source for it, but I think that the basic task, the everyday operation of the forces, requires additional resources. So, as we see the current amendment, as many chapters are not opened in the budget, it is obvious that this year 2016 could be a real opportunity for amendment. But if the government first recognized the need for this, it would certainly be welcome, and obviously they would be able to do so with an amendment of the law, because what we see is that what they want to spend money on, which is a priority for the government and the governing parties, they always find money for it, under all circumstances. With reference to these two issues, which I have mentioned, I would like to highlight another third point. With regard to the amendment that lies before us, the Fiscal Council has drawn attention to, and I would like to quote, the following. The sovereign debt reduction target and the general government deficit target can be achieved if, in exact terms, the macroeconomic path remains stable throughout the year, revenue is as expected, and the government continues to exercise tight control over expenditure, in particular in view of possible adverse developments in external conditions. The government doesn't exercise tight control over expenditure. If you were to exercise tight control, there would be money for what we have mentioned, my fellow Members, more money for eating children, more money for eliminating poverty in Hungary, more money for the appreciation of workers, people from work, and more for job creation. However, we can see that what they are spending on, I am sure, really, is a huge priority, it seems very much that Hungary has slowly put this on its flag, but the government is sure. I wouldn't identify the country with the government, of course. What's important to you? Orbán has a stadium, a fish pond, a small railway, an airport. So I think it's worth looking at in this list, and I think we can spend until the end of the day on what they're spending money on. Up until now, in this Parliament, we have classified what it is not enough for or what it is not enough for. So I think that you should review certain aspects and figures and finally set real priorities, rather than pursue out-of-the-moment dreams. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-28-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, who will be given the opportunity to speak again. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-141	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, it is a bit unpleasant to constantly bomb various State Secretarys and pro-government representatives with questions here, as answers have been missed. I hope we can break the ice now. We know that it is customary to receive some kind of feedback within the framework of the closing. Perhaps it would be more pleasant in the course of the debate, because then we would have a chance to react again, but I understand that Mr Secretary of State has been left in this unpleasant situation with this bad habit. I really hope that one day the conscience will wake up and we can break up with this. I must relate to what Márta Demeter has just said in that it is very important, as we have said, to the fair correction of Hungarian border surveillance. We know that it is still possible to date back to 2008 when the dismantling of this organisation has been practically completed, integrated into the police, while maintaining certain functions and leaving others. But at the moment, when you wish to take foreign military intervention, in addition to knowing that part of Hungary's border is defenceless, and in fact we are the only country with a Schengen border section and no border guard, it is very important to settle this issue. We could at least be reassured and the voters behind us, sympathizers, that this unblessed state of interoperability of Hungary's borders does not persist at such an amazing degree. At the beginning of this year, there was a particularly problematic time when the very large crowd in the region of Asotthalom, which typically started from Kosovo, started simply for the reasons that we talked to many, but the profession also knows their motivations, that whispering propaganda has spread around them that the Austrian and German social systems are preparing for certain kinds of tightening up, so many of them, in wintertime, with the largest number of children's armies on their shoulders, have started to move towards Europe, and indeed the human traffickers have struck. I suspect I suspect that the services there have also worked to ensure that as many people leave the region as possible. As it turned out, practically the situation they feared did not exist, but the flood dried up, not because of the outstanding work of the Hungarian border guard, but because of the Austrian, German and other centuries. Let's not think of hundreds of people here, let's think of a few dozen. It was enough to clean up the border. But similar price data should continue to be prepared in the future, as there are millions of people stationed in different refugee camps and on different bases, and not just Syria is not the only one to think about; similar events are expected in decades of perspective from many other crisis zones. This should therefore have been reflected in such a budget adjustment package. In order to rejoin another subject, the need for consolidation on your part arises many times in terms of the BKV, as well as the fulfilment of it. Some figures have been kind enough for my colleagues to gather for us, since we need to ask questions about them that call for answers. Okay, so you're gonna consolidate, okay, you're gonna take over the debt, but, uh, there are shortcomings in the operation of the BKV, problems that arise from time to time that we need to find answers so that this situation doesn't regenerate itself. The ultimate goal can only be for those affected, citizens who use these services, to finally experience tangible changes, to face this, to make their situation easier, even cheaper, to access certain services. But how is it that in 2010 the external debt was already 78 billion, which the State took over, 58 in 2012, according to figures, 67 in 2014, and 61.7 now. But what we should be able to figure out is how this debt can grow over and over again, so that if the proceeds of this increase year after year in terms of tolls, ticket revenues will increase by 16 percent between 2010-14 and rent revenues by 22 percent. And we also need to see that, in addition to growing items, even the revenue from penalties is constantly increasing. We are talking about a billion-dollar scale here, too. Thus, despite the continuous increase in revenue, and despite the often complete lack of development, they still generate losses, which the state takes over many times. If we conclude with the fact that a central government-party proposal for different electronic ticket management systems has already been brought before us, and at the same time the capital has actually tried to sign up to a similar system with another enterprise, then the question arises, in addition to the total absence of these improvements, of other developments in a gross or spoiled manner, what prevents us from sitting here next year, and once again, by accepting the loss that has been re-produced, we should keep those affected, customers and citizens from experiencing a quality increase, but yet with taxpayers' money there will be further consolidation. [[19.40]] It would be worth finding and getting reassuring answers on what makes it possible for us not to regenerate this debt mass, how to improve the quality of services so that we do not get back into a situation where it needs to be replaced and replaced again. I'm not saying it's a lot of money thrown into a hole in a hat, because I'm not saying that, but I'm sure it would be useful to identify these malfunctions and not just to pay the bill and the total. At the same time, we need to see - even referring to the justification - that this proposal is not as well at systemic level as it is when it comes to discussing and talking about the government turning towards families, they forget that even at the end of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, which we did not exactly praise, there were not so many types of taxes in Hungary as now. I really don't want to bring in demagogic things, although it is a fact that you have since introduced shampoo and artificial flower taxes - shampoo tax doesn't affect me very much, but most of the Hungarian citizens are affected by these little things - and it has to be said that there are virtually 40 types of taxes, or that there has been an increase over the last few years, creating an amazing situation. The Hungarian economy has been incredibly overtaxed. Therefore, there is also a need for a tax and contribution revolution, in a negative direction, as appropriate. What is untenable is that in addition to this more than 40 type of tax or type of tax increase, you have to face a 27-percent VAT. Again, I was only able to flash a small part or a few slices of trouble, but we can ask dozens of questions based on it, which, I repeat, call for answers. I very much expect that by breaking Fidesz-KDNP's customary rights, we can now have a substantive debate and receive meaningful answers, because the condescending attitude to get even decent answers in the final word makes it impossible to use new reflections or, if necessary, to ask further questions. If we are expected to make a responsible decision, as I assume, to take responsible decisions on our own, we should facilitate a meaningful debate, because without it, we just sit by each other, and the outcome is as it is now, very far from perfect. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-28-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament.
u2015-04-28-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I was thinking about the item on the agenda, how much warranty time the Orbán budget has. Well, it seems to me that it's too much, because it's been modified or modified quite often, so I'd say, because it's on your initiative. And my second thought is that when you start talking about the 2016 budget at the end of April, how many times before the beginning of the budget year, after possible adoption, you have to touch it; when there is not even a budget year, the, the 16th. Wouldn't it be more appropriate to plan the budget for 2016 so that it can be submitted to a wider social consultation, in line with your favourite idea, at least in terms of the main figures. Because people are particularly interested in dealing with the problems that affect their lives directly, shape and shape how and how budget figures affect them. I know you've come before the government, but I would like to ask you to consider all this here in Parliament. If I am related to this amending budget, then, in the context of the discussion of the previous item on the agenda, Mr Secretary of State, we have discussed the issue of the lack of a central budget here. At the time, sentences were formulated that did not include an increase in a deficit of HUF 15 billion. It is clear that the lack of a central budget will now be increased by HUF 15 billion. I am not saying that there are no items in this increase, no elements that are not necessary. That is not what I am talking about, but that, according to my judgement, it may be difficult for you to accept, I see a level of contradiction that I cannot ignore. As an example, there is the military engagement in Kurdistan. This is an extra HUF 10 billion supplement. I don't know how much of the basic amount was planned, if they were planning - obviously they couldn't really plan, but if it was planned, what it was - but if it was 10 billion, 10 000 million forints and compared to some elements of the current 62-63 billion forints expenditure, such as supplementing the subsidies for people with disabilities by HUF 2 billion or HUF 3 billion for children's meals, which was originally set at HUF 3.5 billion on the basis of the preliminary drafts, adding that only the demand for future months is about HUF 7 billion, but the year-round extra expenditure requirement should be about HUF 19-20 billion to cover the problem, so when only 3 instead of the previous 3.5 will be presented, and in contrast, I see that Kurdistan military engagement takes up to HUF 10 billion, then I think that there is something to think about. There is much more to be done, whether in terms of children's meals or in the case of those with disabilities. You know that there are about half a million people with changed working skills in Hungary based on their own declarations, but we also know that due to the existence of long-term, long-term diseases and conditions and not to their own declarations, this is no longer half a million, but it is close to one million people. In this sense, it is not only appropriate and necessary to give birth to measures that impose a burden on employers in relation to the rehabilitation contribution of nearly HUF 1 million per year/person, but also to take more responsibility from the other side of government spending to address these types of issues or problems with a larger solution on the surface. But not only with regard to the disabled and the disabled, but also with regard to the people with disabilities, and by looking at how and how the forms of benefits for people with disabilities are developed, or what they intend to do about such a budget change, or what they wish to do not only for care, but also for the care of people with disabilities, we will again see a multitude of disappointments, because for five years - not last year, not before last year, but five years - since they have been governing, I will not tell you what the exact number is, but they will receive twenty-nine thousand or a few hundred forints of care. On the one hand, we know that, contrary to their earlier promises, they did not recognise, for example, the activity they were doing, and on the other hand, they did not forintally help these people to care for their disabled neighbors with a sense of decency, as this amount of money actually makes their livelihood impossible in a sense. [[19.50]] It has been mentioned above, and my fellow Member has spoken about the introduction of the law enforcement and defence stipend. It is very interesting that this salary base was set at HUF 38 650; HUF 38 650 is the amount that, in the form of a civil servant's salary that has been known as a civil servant's salary fund during the period of your administration, has not changed by a single penny. I hope now that the defense and police salary fund, which is now equal to the civil servant's salary, will not have to live the same fate for five years, though it is only three, is that the period of government should not change with a single penny or grow. I am rather confident that the intention is that the amount of the civil protection, police and civil servants' salary base has now been agreed, and that, when presenting the budget for 2016, they want to ensure that this salary base is increased. And we do not have to face the ugliness that the second Orbán cycle, in the sixth year of the second Orbán cycle from the current five years, will not have to change the civil servants' and now the one-valued defense and police salary base. If you have not been among your ideas before, I strongly suggest that you consider it, because not only have you taken money from the public workers, not only do you give money to the minimum wage earner with less purchasing power, but you have not increased the salary of civil servants and civil servants in five years. The Fiscal Council also had a view and a position on this amendment. It considered the risks of achieving the general government deficit, the 2.4 per cent measure, how and how this would be achieved if such changes were made. And not only with regard to the deficit, but also with regard to the issue of the development of public debt, which, in my memory, is affected by such a 0.15% measure, which is now accompanied by a change in the budget. And besides, there are two things that I don't want to go by. One is that, if you may say so, the state has existing resources. What does the state actually do for a living? Obviously collected taxes, contributions, levies, etc. He doesn't have any resources for himself, obviously, but he's redistributing these resources. Speaking of redistributing resources, it would also be worth considering what is in the focus, what is in the focus, what we use these resources for. Are we using it to do what is in the best interest of the people? I give examples: to meet a higher level of comfort and quality of health, which has now been destroyed in the last five years quite normally, we are faced with a higher education system, once again with a higher level of comfort, with higher content, in order to create measures that may lead to real jobs that can be created in the economy, so that, say, public order and public security are stronger and give people a greater sense of security, or that banks are bought. I could add eight or 12 to the previous four examples, and that's better for me than, say, the last one I mentioned. It would be worth considering. Is it absolutely necessary to move in a direction that, through the purchase of financial institutions or through the loss-making purchase of MOL shares, creates a situation in which the State may or may at least question whether or not they are adequate investments. I do not think that it is possible to avoid the fact that the social forints that concern the social area, beyond health and education, that concern the social area, this 2 billion, 3 billion, as I am talking about, are necessary, little and late. This should have been done not now, much earlier and not to this extent, but to a much greater extent, so that poverty in Hungary is not at such a level as it is no longer about poverty, but about poverty and poverty. You should be more preventive about these things. In a preventive way, it should be more preventive than just at the level of words. As the Secretary of State Czibere said, I regret now that he is not here, because then we could at least confront him with his own sayings, he said, as he promised me a replacement wage, he made such a promise of HUF 15 billion. We're looking for that now, researching this amending budget, and we can't find it. But I'm guessing why. I think it is because, before the adoption of the 2016 budget, they will come before Parliament with another amending budget, and here they will wish to fulfill the promises of former government actors. One word, as a hundred, I would like to ask you to put the resources with which you are farming in the best interests of the people, and not in any other direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-04-28-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I felt I had to say something, because there were several statements that I think need to be clarified. I will start with the statement that this year's budget is so sound, it has to be adjusted and the budget changes have been frequent. I respectfully report that the 2014 budget has been amended once, and we are also talking about the first amendment to the 2015 budget. I fully agree with President Sándor Burány, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, that it is important for the government and Parliament to paint a credible, predictable picture of themselves. I report that the amendments that were made in 2014 or that we are talking about do not contain any withdrawal, this will improve the situation of those affected, provide additional resources in several areas. I don't think predictability is negatively affected in any sense. At macro level, a change in a budget would be unpredictable if it resulted in an increase in public debt, a failure to meet the deficit target or a reversal of other macroeconomic parameters. But that's not what we're talking about right now. At present, we are talking about amendments before the Honourable Parliament that are covered by better performance of the economy, so that additional expenditure can be made in such a way that the deficit target remains unchanged and we can still talk about a reduction in debt. Allow me, Mr Nándor Gúr, to mention that during the previous decade there were budgets that were not or have been minimally modified. I ask whether the budget policy was better when the deficit was the largest or the second largest of the 27 EU Member States for six consecutive years. [[20.00]] So that's what I think. [[Dr. István Józsa: What was that money spent on?]] I think, Mr President, that when we talk about the warranty of the budget law and the credibility of budget policy, we should not only look at the number of amendments, but also at the implementation of the budget. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] And my statement is that, after 2010, the government implemented an economic policy that has achieved employment expansion, a very significant rate of growth, with a debt reduction, a persistent deficit of less than 3 per cent. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes: And the debt reduction?]] Mr President, I ask you to look at Eurostat and the European Commission data and you will see that the public debt-to-GDP ratio declines year after year 2011. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's not what they promised!]] After 2011 there is only one country outside Hungary [[Nándor Gúr: But what was it about?!]] [[Nándor Gúr: But what was it about?!]] Denmark, which could do this. These facts are black and white. (Nándor Gúr: But what was it about? ! Regarding the other specific points... [[Nándor Gúr: 60 percent! Where are we?!]] I am not used to this order, but let me respond to this suggestion, because the congressman mentions a 60-percent level of public debt. The Member should know exactly in what period the government debt ratio increased to above 60%, not above 60%, or above 80 percent of GDP. [[Nándor Gúr: What have you promised? What did you promise me, I'm talking about that!]] As far as the specific additional points are concerned, President Sándor Burány suggested that it is good that the state acquires property in several organisations, in several companies, and he also mentioned the waste of public funds by Mr Nándor Gúr. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] I'm thinking, [[Dr. István Józsa: E.ON at double price!]] In recent years...
u2015-04-28-146	Congressmen, it's possible to press the button, and then I'll speak in two minutes. Thank you. Now the Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-04-28-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that, in recent years, state-owned utility companies that are typically state-owned in most countries of the European Union have been bought back by the state. I am thinking about the purchase of Main Gas, which was included in the only last year's budget amendment, which had previously been privately owned by the state, public services, I would add: public utility companies that were in many cases owned by foreign state companies. So I think that when we talk about squandering public funds or acquiring ownership in strategic sectors, first of all, we should point out that public ownership of companies that are typically state-owned in Europe and the world and which carry out public services is a priority. Indeed, it is an exception to state involvement in the banking sector, to which Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also drew attention. This is a temporary acquisition of ownership, and the amendment of this Finance Act for Erste Bank includes a 15% acquisition of ownership under the condition that the bank will open a preferential credit facility of EUR 550 million in addition to State involvement. I hope that this will result in economic growth and employment expansion through the expansion of lending. Once again, I can say that thanks to God, the Hungarian economy is in a position to expect not only an increase in lending activity in the framework of this agreement, but not only that if the Parliament accepts this proposal, it is possible to acquire state ownership in Erste Bank, but also to reduce the level of the bank tax without endangering the achievement of the deficit target and the reduction in government debt. Let me mention a few more specific points. Children's meals: it was said that the bill provides only HUF 3 billion in additional resources. I think this is a misunderstanding. In the municipal chapter, there is indeed HUF 3080 million in addition to the bill you are proposing, but there is also an extension of HUF 670 million for non-state maintainers. This is therefore a total extra resource of HUF 3750 million for children's meals. [[Dr. István Józsa: That half is still there! Half!]] We also need to see that this is a step in a long series of governments, so I mentioned that the 2010 budget included HUF 28.7 billion for children's meals, which was already HUF 58 billion in this year's budget. I therefore ask that we compare the amount of growth to these. [[Dr. István Józsa: Poverty has increased!]] As for the actual use of resources, detailed calculations preceded the two numbers I mentioned to you. I suggest that we wait for the experience of the first months, to see exactly what source the municipalities can provide the said nearly 90 percent of free children's meals. [[Dr. István Józsa: You must!]] We see that the proposed amendment creates the necessary cover for this, but if not, then, on the basis of experience, there is, of course, an opportunity for the government to provide additional resources in its own sphere of competence. As regards Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's suggestion on immigration policy, Member, allow me to highlight two things. The first is that, in my memory, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán may be the first of European leaders to draw attention to the need for new legislation on immigration policy, he was, I think, the first of the European leaders to draw attention here to a new EU regulation, and he has been quite active in this area by the Hungarian government and by the Hungarian foreign policy. Of course, in addition to the need to amend EU rules, the Hungarian Government and the European Community also have a responsibility to protect the external borders from the available EU funds. We will also pay particular attention to this objective in the 2016 budget and, on the basis of the plans, we will propose an amendment to the structure of appropriations. I believe that the necessary resources are available again this year, and if the government considers that additional tasks require additional resources, then there is once again the possibility for the government to provide them. With regard to BKV's debt transfer, I have to say that this is the first time that BKV's debt will be taken over. The new mayor's leadership elected in 2010, the mayor, or the new capital leadership, also inherited a situation where several capital companies had significant debts, the largest of which belonged to the BKV. This BKV debt gradually decreased, this year the debt repayment of HUF 52,3 billion is current. I fully agree with the Member that this debt transfer must take place in such a way that the capital city and the districts take the necessary steps to prevent debt from being re-produced. In this case, the Government also engages in active consultations with the Mayor's Office and with the district leaders concerned. [[Dr. István Józsa: Hospital wealth should be paid! The hospital property! The president's ringing the bell.]] I must therefore reassure the Member that the intention is common, the aim is to ensure that this debt does not regenerate. Once again, I can say that the Hungarian economy is in a position to carry out this debt transfer without any increase in the debt of the state as a whole. As regards the debt of hospitals, [[Dr. István Józsa: Property!]] , HUF 60 billion is available to reduce the debt of central government bodies this year, and the government has decided by a separate decision that the total amount will be spent on debt consolidation in the health sector. Once again, the aim is to establish a system that, in addition to patient-centredness, guarantees that everyone will be provided with the necessary care and that we can also improve efficiency, so that these debts do not grow over and over again. As regards the Liget project, there were also several points. First of all, let me record that the green surface will not decrease if the Liget project is implemented, but increase, based on public information, the current 60 per cent green surface ratio would increase to 65%. It is also about the creation of new green surfaces and the renewal of existing green surfaces, so I think that the criticisms that are being formulated as a result of the disappearance of the green surface are not real in this respect. I repeat: the green surface will increase when the Liget project is implemented. [[20.10]] On the one hand, I welcomed the view that, on the other hand, I supported the proposal for an amendment to the Budget Act by the present advocates of the minority self-governments and by Mr Ritter Imre. I am saying that the proposals put forward will be reviewed and, if necessary, the government will have the opportunity to make amendments to the draft budget law 2016 at several points, if necessary. One more thought about eating a child. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned a percentage of the percentage of children who can eat. Once again, I would like to stress that the proposal for a special law before the Parliament and the adoption of the budget bill that we are discussing can be around 90% of the proportion of children who, or their parents, do not have to pay for free meals. Here I would like to mention that in kindergartens and kindergartens, this means five meals a day, if the parents so request. As regards wage increases in the public sector and within it - on the question of Congresswoman Márta Demeter - with the armed authorities, I would like to note that the average wage increase of 30 per cent in the case of armed bodies will take place from 1 July 2015; this does not jeopardise the possible wage increase of these court and prosecutors' secretaries and authors. Here, I would like to respond to the suggestion made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet that, at the end of last year, at the time of the amendment of this year's budget law, a specific proposal for the court, if I recall correctly, containing HUF 8 billion in extra expenditure, has been formulated. Non-support by the government does not mean that the same proposal will now be included in this year's budget. The amendment of the budget law that we are discussing now provides only the possibility that, in the case of judicial and public prosecutorial employees, the wage increase cover will be transferred from the provision if the relevant law is adopted by the Honourable Parliament. As regards further wage increases in the public sector: next year's bill, the government's intention is to include a proposal to increase gross wages for government officials, and I would also like to stress that net income may increase even if gross wages remain unchanged, as the government's proposal would reduce the rate of personal income tax by 1 percentage point; this would automatically mean a net increase in wages. Let me make two more comments on the further points. One also relates to the suggestion made by Mrs Márta Demeter, when she asked for tight budgetary management or control on the government. I think that the facts once again show that the government has conducted a disciplined, responsible budget management, which is why we have been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, and that is why Hungarian analysts, the European Commission, the IMF and all international bodies believe that this year's budget deficit remains below 3 percent. In this regard, I therefore believe that the experience so far is positive, and we can trust that this disciplined farming will continue this year. As far as Mr Nándor Gúr is concerned, it is indeed correct to say that the cash flow deficit increases when the bill is adopted, but this increase in cash flow is exclusively linked to the acquisition of public ownership and the purchase of property in Erste Bank. This is only a deficit-enhancing item classified according to the Hungarian methodology; in the European Union's accounts, it is exchanged among the state's assets; it exchanges cash for the state's share, so to speak; this does not increase the deficit according to the European Union's methodology. That is why, in addition to the government, the draft Budgetary Council formally considers that this transaction does not negatively affect the 2.4 percent deficit target according to the EU methodology. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches; although this was closed, more people are still waiting to speak. Two-minute speeches followed; first, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-04-28-149	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to express my appreciation to the Secretary of State for having taken part in the debate, not in the end, and, although this is closing, but still intervening, he has honoured us with his replies in excess of a time frame. For Jobbik, of course, in the case of the BKV, he did not mean that we would take over and take over the debt every year, but that in the 52 billion that we have just mentioned, there are loans that the company essentially renewed in 2012, but the State gave a guarantee that the state would pay for them and that they will expire in 2015. So, for the record, it wasn't a mistake. If we're being misunderstood, we apologize. What cannot be misunderstood, however, is the Secretary of State's comment on sovereign debt. In the past, when discussions were held in the press, you were the main commentator who clarified this issue, that in terms of public debt, you were able to keep the GDP-related target in a way that allowed Hungarian legislation to use the same exchange rate when comparing two sovereign debt years. You started the year at a rate of 296 forints, at the end of the year it was about 297 forints - in the fiscal law it was 297 - but in reality it was 20 forints higher. So if the actual one was used that day, even the GDP ratio would have been lost. Last year alone, you qualifiedly increased the country's external debt by around 2,200 billion. This government debt has increased by thousands of billions since 2010, so it is not true that they could have increased the public debt, it is not true that they would have won the fight against sovereign debt. Unfortunately - and I wish it weren't - Hungary's debt is getting worse, continuous and apparently unstoppable with your instruments.
u2015-04-28-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Nándor Gúr. Here you go. Then we will have the proper speech.
u2015-04-28-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, what Dániel Z. Kárpát says is correct, and I would add that, looking back over the last few years, the Secretary of State also remembers that there was a confiscation of HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds - in quotes - and in a sense it was also abducted. Now I can explain what they spent it on, but they burned about a significant part of it, bought MOL shares for it, and a lot of other things. Oh, yeah. If we are in such a discussion, which I thank the Secretary of State, then I would like to ask for an approximate answer - I know the exact one - at least give us what we now have, say, what is the stock market value, and if all the shares that were purchased were sold, how much would we get for it. So I would like to ask a little bit about the issue of responsible farming in this regard. But again, I'm going to ask you the nature of the question - and then, if necessary, I'm going to give you a longer opinion in this regard - whether you remember, let's say, what the market valuations for E.ON were about, what size they were about. And do you remember what we paid for? What was the scale that was paid for? I will help you not to have to think too much, I remember that the payment was of the order of 270 billion forints. Now you can help me figure out what the market valuation was like, but if you can't help me, I'll tell you, and then we can talk a little bit about responsible farming. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-28-152	Thank you very much. Mr László Kiss, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go. [[20.20]]
u2015-04-28-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. One of the things I would like to start with is that in this proposal, something has started in the fight against child poverty in the context of child feeding. This is so important that it cannot be emphasized enough. My fellow Member, Bangóné, has come from a more difficult region; I have come from Mr III. As a district congressman, I'd say everything's fine. Compared to this, if we look at the local government's website, we can see that the district government, together with the foundation of the Salesian Order, the Bosco St. John Foundation and the Alliance for Obuda, regularly distributes food to children in need; 150 children per day, and they also receive food during school holidays. So this problem in this country, unfortunately, is so child poverty that even in a capital district, hundreds of children are affected. Thus, when we talk about the fact that this HUF 3 billion is also very good, that there is, of course, but perhaps a drop in the sea, that is certainly right. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that this direction of support has emerged; I wish it could be reported that, let us say, this amount will also increase in the 2016 budget. If you allow a misintentional, picnic comment, it is also good to accept this budget until the summer, because then it will be possible to modify it in September-October. In this sense, it may be said that the kind of tenseness that many people criticize might be good to have in the next period. The fight against sovereign debt is very important, and there are pros and cons of how much public debt is. In fact, it seems to me a little bit like frazeologies recalling the spirit of older ages, when you always had to find something, someone or some enemy; it is an important element of this, of course, that you can never catch it in the act, never win this fight, because otherwise there is no enemy, and there is no reason to unite. I myself would really like to see government measures lead to the fact that this country would be viable and, at the same time, the public debt would be reduced. Let's just say, I don't want to go on with the number war, because I really think it's unnecessary, but it's clear in this House that, let's just say, it's an opinionary statement that you're in a successful fight against or against sovereign debt. Even if everything you have said here is true, Mr Secretary, but it is obvious that many of us here say that they are in dispute with statistics. I don't want justice in this, but I can only say, let's say that the results of the efforts are not even at best proportional to the effort you are doing here; there is anything else to say about the theft of private pension funds. Again, I do not want to picnic, but let me say that when we talk about quoting Eurostat and other statistics, it is important to note here that, for example, in the context of the change in the number of early school leavers, your government disputes the correctness of the Eurostat statistical data that Eurostat compiles on the basis of the HCSO. So it is also interesting that if we accept Eurostat, which is set up on the basis of the information provided by the HCSO, it would be good to have consistency in the government, so for example - I apologize for this, the students say - the Ministry of Odd Named Affairs would also accept the data of the HCSO and Eurostat on the number of early school leavers. But I know it's not Mr. Secretary's fault, and I don't want to hold you accountable. If another approach is allowed, the ancient Romans have called all living things an entity, which is otherwise important in terms of the fact that they are more than the whole of the components. In this sense, if you like it, I can say that Hungary is such an entity, for example, because it is significantly more than the community of the citizens that make it, a nation, a unity. In this sense, I must say that this law is unfortunately significantly less than the sum of the elements that make it up. Less, because there are a number of items that are absolutely eligible for me; I mentioned the children's meal here, where I say that 3 billion HUF is more than zero, and although 3.5 billion is promised, they give me 3 billion, but I am also very happy about that. So I don't want to argue about it right now, and I'm just looking at it as a positive thing. At the same time, however, there are some things that I must say that the document before us is less than the sum total of its constituent parts; if you like it, in this sense, quoting the old Romans, it cannot be called an entity. One of Hungary's military engagements in Kurdistan: I was extremely opposed to this in the debates within the faction, and I am doing so now. There's no need for that. I think - and again I do not want to beat this on Mr Secretary of State, but it is important to record it in this House - that the government has not given any valid reasons why we should be involved in this. At three different meetings, the government said three different things; it couldn't even mark the place twice in a row; it couldn't even tell us exactly what the soldiers were doing, and what it cost. When the ethnogenesis of this case came to light in December, we heard that as part of a great international coalition, Hungarian soldiers are going there paid by the Grand Coalition; which ended with going there for another reason and other support. I think Hungarian soldiers have no place there if it doesn't cost HUF 10 billion, but not a HUF, but that it costs HUF 10 billion, let's say, doesn't increase my positive determination on this issue. I would just like to note in parentheses that in the middle of the Kurdistan engagement debate, they were talking about HUF 20 billion, which is good that it decreased to 10 billion. In fact, I think it doesn't matter how much - you can't be trusted in this matter - Hungarian soldiers have no place there, and I cannot vote in favour of a law that underpins this matter. The Liget Budapest project was also discussed in this House. I do not want to open this debate, and it would not be fair for me to have this debate with Mr Secretary of State, because it is not your area, and I obviously do not want to put you in this awkward situation. However, I would like to note what the various members and organisations of environmental organisations or even the chamber of architects say that there is a difference between green land and green land. It is important to call the green area of the park, which exists in the Liget, even hundreds of years old, or the lawn or walking area above the P+R parking lot, a green area. So these two are just not the same. It is only important to say this because it is constantly being said that it grows from 60% to 65%, and I do not doubt the positive intention in this matter either, but I would like to say that we should not, however, make an equal signal between a biological system that has been operating for hundreds of years, a park and a carpet on the roof of a parking lot. There's no way that can be done. However, there are many other advantages or disadvantages to this Liget Budapest project, but again I can only say that it is not part of this debate, and I would not put you in this position to talk about it now. It is also important to mention the issue of debt consolidation. In many cases, it has been suggested that the municipalities that were mostly fidesz municipalities, and due to poor farming practices, let us say, either direct or faulty, have been indebted to decisions which are easily perceived to be wrong, to what extent they deserve debt consolidation, but we are beyond this debate. However, it can be said that serious budgetary resources have also gone to this. Now, obviously, compared to those settlements that did not otherwise manage badly, the proposal that is before us seems fair, but that was preceded by the fact that a number of local governments were selected from the Hungarian taxpayer's money, which, by the way, issued bonds for tasks without seeing in any way the method of financing the bond, and then, let's just say, quite gallantly fixed it. Now, obviously, the extra support for the non-participating municipalities does not seem unfair to me, so I wouldn't take that out, but this is not where the story begins. And it is possible to talk about increasing the benefits of public collection workers, which I, as a educator, am certainly in favour of, because I consider the activities of public collection workers to be important. But in general, you can also say a number of elements that I would otherwise support. The only problem is, you know, with these salad things, salad laws, like the ones we have here, I apologize for this philanthropic metaphor - it's a comedian's own - that if there's a food that can only be answered with no, it's a delicious steak, right? If you look at this, this food is made of green peas and carrots, and if you don't like any of them, you won't like the final result. [[20.30]] If someone doesn't like many elements of this salad law, or doesn't like some of its elements, then unfortunately, it's all inedible for him. So when in this proposal there is a ten-billion-dollar engagement in Kurdistan, which I think there is no place in Hungarian politics in any way for Hungarian soldiers in Kurdistan to defend the case for HUF 10 billion, I don't know what case they couldn't properly justify to me, and if they liked it, they couldn't justify it in such a way that I, who am a convinced pacifist, didn't even have to consider how to vote in this, because it's perfectly natural that I couldn't vote for this, well, if that's what's in it, then I can't support it. If it includes the Liget investment that I cannot support as a man committed to green areas in the capital, I cannot vote for this. And even though there are elements in it, such as, for example, which I am very pleased to see included in it, it is an important step in the fight against child eating, child poverty, which I am very pleased to have in it, and I would very much like to say that it is really good, because this is part of Annex III. It's also a problem in the district; it's in it, but together with me, this fine cooking is not delicious, it's not edible. I ask you - I know this is an old practice for the government to put Members in a position to bring in salads like this, which ends with the fact that I can really say something inedible, that it is edible or not edible, but let us try not to put each other in such a position. Because in this case, there is virtually no other way for a man who considers certain elements of a piece of law unacceptable, which could otherwise be dealt with separately, there is no other way but to vote off the whole thing. There's no other way! Unfortunately, this is not only seen in this case, but in many cases, and in many cases the government follows this practice even when it brings together laws that do not belong to it. Because, of course, the Secretary of State can say that they are obliged to negotiate this together, because it is a matter of amending the budget law, but it cannot be brought in in 15 items, and I will even accept that. Unfortunately, it is also the government's practice to do the same in the case of laws that do not belong to it. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to consider that, if not in this case, this practice will be changed in any case in the future. Nevertheless, I think that... oh, yes, sorry, and there is one last element of the story, the BKV. I very much agree with the question that, in itself, it is very good that this debt transfer takes place. As a Budapester myself, I welcome this, because I believe that there is no other way to operate the BKV now than what just happened. But the question is, what will happen next year, what will be a year, two, three, four years from now, if the operation of the BKV does not generate the same debts. Mr. Secretary of State was trying to reassure me, and I feel the positive intention that the government is trying to do something to make it not so and to agree with the capital. But compared to that, it was decided a year ago that agglomeration transport would be reorganized and that BKV would give out agglomeration transport to subcontractors. By the way, just in parentheses: we don't hear anything about what's going on here. Compared to that, rumors keep popping up, which is me as well. The district representative is concerned about what will happen to the BKV bus garages, because it is obvious that if a significant part of the BKV's capacity is outsourced, these bus garages are not needed, including the bus garage in Óbuda, which is in my constituency. However, if we look at these contracts, which the BKV has prepared and concluded, then we can see that you want to sign with these subcontractors at a higher price and you want to sign at a higher price than the BKV is currently asking. I wonder, however, that when the BKV pays an average mileage cost of 643 forints for an average car, and in the contract they charge the subcontractors 663 and 746 forints for a kilometer, so in one case the subcontractor accounts for 100 forints and in the other case 20 forints more than the BKV costs for the country, how seriously can the promise that BKV will not re-create these costs be taken seriously? The problem is that when BKV is forced into contracts that guarantee bad functioning, it's hard for me to imagine that, say, in two years' time, there's no such law. And I certainly don't want that. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-28-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr will speak again.
u2015-04-28-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought it would be Mr Secretary of State's turn, because I asked you a few questions, but I see you're just gonna want to answer in the closing word when you can no longer discuss these questions. Well, that's life. He expressed responsible management and this type of thought on the budget, Mr Secretary of State, with which I agree that it should happen, but I have raised a few things, perhaps in the closing words, when I will not be able to make a reply there, Mr Secretary of State will be willing to respond. If it's responsible farming, then I've given you an example. I told E.ON, where the market valuation of my knowledge was 110 billion HUF among the highest amounts. The amount paid, I believe, is HUF 270 billion. Correct me, Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, if you don't. [[Dr. István Józsa: If you have to sit down!]] The other thing I mentioned was MOL; MOL, in respect of which I made the mistake of saying that I had just said, if I remember correctly, that this was accompanied by a purchase at the expense of the confiscated HUF 3000 billion. No, it was purchased using money from the IMF loan. This amount of HUF 500 billion is equivalent to EUR 1.82 billion, if I remember correctly, and it was recorded in HUF, but it has to be paid in foreign currency. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] If I remember correctly, that's true, but disprove me, Mr. Secretary, if not this way. And disprove that when the purchase took place, the price of the shares was not higher than now; let us say that it was lower than it is now. Say that, because if you can say that, I'll say it's okay. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] the problem is that if my memories are not cheating, it is combined with buying at a stock price in the area of 23-25 thousand forints, and now, if you go into bet.hu today alone and watch MOL's stock price, you will see that we are standing at 15 130 forints. If I change this back, I don't know how much more than 300 billion forints we'll get for this stock package. We paid 500 billion, we got 300 billion or 350, I didn't calculate. [[Dr. István Józsa: And 540 must be repaid.]] And we'll pay you back over 500. [[Dr. István Józsa: 540.]] Well, 530-540, if I count right now. Responsible financial management! In the meantime, we are talking about changes to a budget of HUF 2 and HUF 3 billion, as well as additional items concerning children's meals for people with disabilities, and we are not even talking about anything, any amount concerning the remuneration of people with disabilities or the provision of care for people with disabilities. Mr. Secretary, are these things all right with you? It's okay that the issues that are depressing this society, tearing everyone apart in this country, make people's everyday lives difficult - poverty, child poverty, I won't repeat the story - they should believe that this is a real problem in this country once in a while. The resources are distributed in this order of magnitude, with 2 plus 3 billion HUF additions, and I have just mentioned items of the order of HUF 100 billion. [[20.40]] Is that okay? And I haven't even told you about stadiums, and I don't want to. I just want to say that, let's say, on this line of items, if we were to do this, we would find a few tens of hundreds, a few tens of millions, tens of billions in total. Is that okay? In the priority line, it has to stand as a stadium, MOL stock purchase with loss, E.ON, at any price above market valuation, and while, as I mentioned above, we are debating the fact that instead of HUF 3.5 billion, we would need 3 and 7 in this period, which is at about 20 years old, should be added to this amount? Is that what we're arguing about? It's a hoax! I think the way this story works today is that a few billion forints are said to deal with the types of questions that are burning society: child poverty, solving the problems of people with changed job skills, much more. Meanwhile, resources of the magnitude of not a few billion, but a hundred billion, are going out of this budget, leaving this budget without being able to see its usefulness or view it as loss. Are they all right, Mr. Secretary? In the meantime, he talks about the issues of public debt, and we talk - I can bring this question back again, although I don't want to go into it - that we make 3000 billion forints, we don't embellish, we've been confiscated by force from people. I put it figuratively, in quotes, they put the machine gun to their heads, and they told me to give it or not to give it if you don't give it, and then we'll create a set of conditions in which you give it anyway. You're not getting anything, so you're gonna give it to me. You can tell me anything, I can draw up those laws, I can make those proposals, I can make statements that support all of this. It's okay. Mr. Secretary? They do not take measures for the benefit of people, but do not do anything to improve the situation. You're talking about wages. He says that in the armed forces, in defence, the civil servant's salary will be HUF 38 650. So? In the meantime, there will be some changes in the 2016 budget. I need a clear answer. Answer: in the five years that have remained unchanged, in the period of your administration, a single penny has not changed the civil servant's salary, will the HUF 38 650 be raised through the 2016 budget or not? Don't talk about that and that and that and that. No! Will the civil servants' salary be raised or not? Give me a clear answer. My colleague László Kiss said his personal position on Kurdistan's HUF 10 000 million investment. But in this country, this is not the personal position of László Kiss only, it is the position of many. Many people's positions are because when you spend 10 000 million forints on military engagement in Kurdistan, they - I repeat - make 2 and 3 billion forints in supplements, whether for people with disabilities or for children. Shouldn't we set up a different priority line? Is it something that doesn't call for risks that brings to this country, but uses money to solve existing problems? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that we should use budgetary resources to solve and resolve the problems of poverty? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that we should go where we don't have to deal with the escalation of deep problems, and we need to see the multiplicity of that? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that it doesn't lead anywhere if the majority of society, the majority of people in nearly ten million Hungary, are in a situation where their life is impossible, shouldn't that be changed? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that we should move the types of instruments that try to resolve the existing differences in this small country, this 93,000 square kilometers? Do you not think that resources should be deployed there, in those systems, either in the education system or in the health system, where, on the one hand, we think and act for the future, as in the education system, and on the other hand, we care for people who have worked their way of life, not only for them, but also for older people, as for health care? Shouldn't we install resources there and give them as much resources as possible? Shouldn't we take it from there, not evacuate it, not evacuate these surfaces? To take away the wealth of the metropolitan hospitals without compensation to my knowledge, is that all right, Mr. Secretary? Don't you think that's not how this is supposed to work? Don't you think, let's say, in the case of nurses, we should have a pay system where their average salary doesn't reach 55 percent of the average Hungarian gross salary? Where 70 percent of nurses don't earn income under the guaranteed minimum wage? Don't you think we should change there? Don't you think that we should take action, and that we should, say, put in place budget changes and economic regulators, so that people who work on minimum wage don't do this for less than five years' worth of purchasing power money? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that we should come to the walls of Parliament with amendments that mean that the scissors between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, between living and the minimum living per capita, do not open, but close, rather, the scissors? I could ask you a thousand such questions, Mr. Secretary. Don't you think they should take a multitude of measures to reduce social tensions? Not those that solve not this, not this type of problems, but, where appropriate, create new tensions and bring people to their necks? I think it would be your job, and I believe that five years ago it would be your job - if we had been ruling before it, let us be anyone, we didn't do it right, we didn't do it right, we didn't do it right, you say we made mistakes, and you thought that people should trust you to govern - that this mandate from people should not be run with pride, not with willfulness, not with the exclusion of everyone's opinion, but with society and for the good of society? Don't you think, Mr. Secretary? I think you feel the same way. You feel the same way, but this is not reflected in the actions. They've got three more years, if all goes well. They've got three more years, so I guess they do. I would like life to evolve so that, in the coming period, we can take into account all of their actions in a supportive manner. If we could support every draft amending budget in such a way that it would not be only to our satisfaction and exclusively. No, it's for society. Because the fact that we're dissatisfied with it, I know it doesn't impress you. But the fact that society itself, the crowd of people, feels they're not going in the right direction, that's a much bigger problem. I think we should change that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]] [[20.50]]
u2015-04-28-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has just been said. [[Peter Benő Banai nodds.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I must be honest with you that I have essentially prepared questions on the draft budget bill before the Honourable Parliament. Mr Nándor Gúr opened the door much wider, he said that he could put a thousand questions, some of them he also said, and allow me to reply very briefly. Firstly, with regard to the question: Mr President, were these questions raised before 2010 in relation to responsible farming? [[Nándor Gúr: Yes.]] And did you see the data about, say, employment, the management of public finances? Why didn't they ask these questions then? My statement is that, on the basis of the figures, the government elected after 2010 found the way in an extremely difficult economic environment, in an extremely difficult economic situation, with which it was able to carry on responsible farming, reduced public debt, and reduced the deficit. [[Nándor Gúr: 25 000 billion HUF!]] We avoided losing EU funds, we broke out of the excessive deficit procedure so that when we got in, some countries were inside when we left, I remember 17, and there were also changes that strengthened the responsible management you mentioned, and also took steps that led to employment growth, the rise in real wages. [[Nándor Gúr: Statistical manipulation!]] Congressman, these are the cold numbers. When you mention responsible farming, I say that these numbers speak, you can compare pre-2010 data and post-2010 data [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, the poor are silent!]] It is possible to compare the rule system that has been included in the Fundamental Law and which requires governments at all times, regardless of political support, to end the era of irresponsible management. A budget should be drawn up and presented that will lead to a reduction in public debt. The last general remark that came up in connection with the purchase of shares, Mr President, I can assure you that the expansion of state assets has always been based on valuation, calculations and market value. [[Nándor Gúr: And the realization?]] If you are referring to the exchange rate of MOL shares, I suggest that we look at the theory of efficient markets in economics, according to which a market is then effective. [[Nándor Gúr: Reality!]] If the stock prices...
u2015-04-28-158	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Note, Mr. Nándor Gúr, I am speaking to you. The notary has a special responsibility to uphold Parliament's order. I'm warning you. [[Nándor Gúr, pointing to the presidential pulpit: There!]] Do not allow me to exclude you from today's debate. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-28-159	Thank you, Mr. President. The only thing I wanted to draw attention to was the purchase of MOL shares at market prices. Stock exchanges, stock prices, are such that they change every day that if a market is efficient - and according to several analyses this efficiency is also characteristic of the Hungarian stock markets - all future information will be incorporated into the daily exchange rate of a share. [[Dr. István Józsa: E.ON.]] Mr Congressman, Mr notary, this has a very serious academic, economic background, and I recommend an overview of this. After that, the last thought about the responsible management of companies and the responsibility of the state: I think that state policy is more responsible, a government state asset management policy that wants public service companies to be more State-owned. From 94 to 98 companies were privatised, and agreements were made whereby the new owner had a fixed profit, and these companies had price increases that pushed the overhead costs into the sky. I think there's been a change here, too, in recent years. Allow me, then, to respond to the specific legislative proposals before the Honourable Parliament. Once again, I would like to note that the bill contains HUF 3 billion plus 750 million in children's meals. This, according to our calculations, will ensure full coverage of the extension of free children's meals. All the proposals contained in the bill, which would increase the deficit under the EU methodology, are compensated for the excess interest income and interest expenditure. Here I would respond to the suggestion of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát: whatever calculation we look at, the debt calculation under the Hungarian Stability Act, which really eliminates the effect of the exchange rate change when comparing two years, or if we look at the debt according to the European Union methodology, which also includes the impact of the exchange rate change in the calculation of public debt, so the Hungarian government debt has decreased in recent years on the basis of both indicators. It also decreased in 2014 and, according to our current calculations, this debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease. Congressman, the markets also acknowledge this. Let's look at the cost of financing the Hungarian government debt now! Look at the yield levels of 3-month 12-month sovereign debt, below 2%. Now, this is the responsible farming, which is recognised by the markets, and we can now use the cover of this interest expenditure for these extra expenditures, if this is accepted by the honourable Parliament. Finally, I say that any amendments which represent additional expenditure in relation to children's meals, road construction, employment of people with disabilities or participation in Kurdistan decided by the Parliament do not affect the balance of public finances. The way to move forward in these areas is that the financing of the state is much cheaper now, because of disciplined farming, the expansion of the job, the growth of the economy is realistic, and in 2015 the picture is more favourable than the projections, so I repeat: these positive steps can be achieved with disciplined public finances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Now I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[21.00]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system will follow up until closure. The submission was made in T/4393. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Good evening. I welcome the honourable Members. The primary objective of the bill is to strengthen financial consumer protection, to develop provisions for a more efficient and secure functioning of the financial institution system, and to introduce amendments and clarifications to ensure the coherence of legislation in this context. In order to achieve these objectives, the proposal initiates a number of amendments to most of our legislation on financial matters, while strengthening the regulatory framework for supervision of service providers. In this case, the usual update of the financial sector regulation has been significantly influenced by the broker scandals of the last period. It is regrettable that the focus on brokerage companies is due to a number of fraudulently operating companies, the abuse of which casts a shadow on the whole and, to a large extent, the fair, law-abiding sector. For this reason, regulation must also respond in a decisive way, as appropriate, during a period of collapse of trust. I believe that action with greater rigour to protect vulnerable customers is the right response. However, I would also like to point out to you that regulation is a very sensitive issue, a possible overreaction, excessive regulatory intervention can also carry risks. Our aim is not to bring further blows to the otherwise undeveloped capital market in relation to the financing of the financial model, the Hungarian economy, which is essentially based on bank financing. Of course, prudence, supervision and consumer protection are very important, and we will strengthen them by all means, but we will also make sure in this legislative package that we maintain our sense of proportion. In the area of financial regulation in the European Union, which is increasingly implementing the single regulation, I would like to mention this aspect in particular in order not to create a situation in which service providers from other EU countries are put in a position at the expense of the Hungarians, and to facilitate the removal of the protection of customers from the Hungarian hand by overregulation of the domestic sector. Dear Parliament, The bill before us also proposes to amend the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. The main purpose of this amendment is to review and further develop the supervisory and control rules of the National Bank. The amendment proposes to increase the intensity and frequency of the procedural obligation in relation to comprehensive investigations, with the aim of allowing the MNB to conduct investigations at shorter intervals in the future with certain financial market participants. This will allow market abuse to be detected quickly and in time, to avoid or reduce any damage that may arise, or to minimise the harmful consequences of the abuse of individual operators. For example, the proposal places much more emphasis on carrying out on-the-spot checks. A new type of procedure will be identified in the draft, the institution of the so-called special target investigation, which may take place in the event of serious market abuse. In this type of procedure, the deadlines are shorter than in the case of normal target tests, so they provide a kind of certainty for the sector that supervision will not entail excessive administrative burdens, while allowing the National Bank to react quickly. In the future, if this draft law is adopted, the target tests and the exceptional target tests may be carried out at random. If the MNB experiences an infringement, the full disclosure of the facts during the proceedings will become a fundamental requirement not only for the infringement in question, and in any case specific measures are expected to be taken. In the absence of an infringement, procedural rules will be simplified to ensure that administrative burdens are reduced for both supervised institutions and the National Bank. The proposal reviews and clarifies the rules of the on-site and off-site procedures and also standardises the institution of the trial transaction. In addition, it is important to renew the revised rules that on-the-spot checks may be carried out in the event of suspicion or without delay of an infringement, within which, where appropriate, an area, building, premises may be opened and may be carried out against the will of those present there. In the market surveillance procedure to be conducted in the case of unauthorised activities, the National Bank would be given the opportunity to carry out on-the-spot research, as the Competition Authority has done, giving the National Bank additional rights compared to the on-the-spot verification. Dear Parliament, It is also a new element compared to the previous regulation that the National Bank would be entitled to involve an auditor or other expert in the event that the extension of staff and material conditions would be temporarily necessary for the effective, rapid and effective conduct of the audit procedure. It is also an important element of the regulation that the maximum amount of fines increases in all three types of control procedures. We are trying to achieve an adequate deterrent to prevent infringements. The proposal also lays down provisions on the protection of notifiers, in accordance with the rules of the law on complaints and announcements of general interest. With these new provisions, the public interest announcements received by the National Bank may be properly managed. In addition, the proposal includes a number of minor amendments relating to the preparation of a control plan, both to rationalise supervisory and conciliation body procedures, to data protection and to the relationship and cooperation with EU bodies. Honourable Members, As I said, most of our financial laws would be amended according to the draft. With regard to the Capital Markets Act, allow me to take some important elements and mention them here. A substantial change to the investor protection system would be the first thing I would like to mention to you. The amount of compensation for the Investor Protection Fund would be increased from the current EUR 20 thousand to EUR 100 thousand, so we are aiming at the level of insurance for the National Deposit Insurance Fund. At the same time, in terms of the amount above HUF 1 million, the 10% share borne by the investor would remain. This increase is very significant as far as the threshold is concerned. [[21.10]] At the same time, maintaining a self-reliance indicates that we are committed to protecting investors and that we also want to encourage them to be prudent and reasonable in the use of services. In the interest of compensation - this is once again a provision that approaches the rules of the Deposit Insurance Fund of BEVA, the Investor Protection Fund - BEVA may borrow liquidity from the MNB as proposed and in the future a legal guarantee will be provided for possible borrowing. If our proposals were adopted, the work organisation of BEVA would be merged with the work organisation of the National Deposit Insurance Fund, and the Management Board would be supplemented by the two persons appointed by the Minister responsible for regulating the financial, capital and insurance markets. It is also a change in the Capital Markets Act that we have initiated clarification in respect of customer accounts belonging to the securities account. This was done in order to allow client accounts managed by investment firms to be used exclusively for securities operations and not to allow customers to use their securities account for cash flow, such as the payment of utility charges. It was also proposed to provide the holder of a security account with the possibility of checking the current status of his security account on the MNB's website on a monthly basis. This can be done by the account holder in the knowledge of an account manager's login ID and password. However, I would like to stress that the data available in this way do not relieve the account manager of the obligation to inform his client of the balance of his account. This is only to enable the customer to compare the data that arrive at the MNB and those that he is informed of. The stock exchange is an important area of domestic regulated trading, and its regulation is therefore also of paramount importance. With regard to the Capital Markets Act, this would be the last point I would mention. Here, as a result of the experience of supervisory control, we propose clarification regarding compliance with internal regulations and provisions on outsourcing. Dear Parliament, In ensuring compliance with European Union law, the Capital Markets Act has been amended several times before. Due to the EU regulations on OTC derivatives, central counterparties, trade repositories and securities settlement and CSDs, these regulations are directly applicable in Hungarian law and our laws must be adapted to them. The current changes to the functioning of the CSD and CCP providing the infrastructure for capital market trading were largely motivated by the experience gained by the National Bank during the new CCP authorisation procedure. Therefore, it was necessary to further refine domestic legislation in order to limit domestic law to the requirements of the EU regulation, which is directly in force in the domestic legal order. Dear House, Allow me to highlight some of the amendments that have been made in the field of investment services. For example, I would first mention that, like other sectoral regulations, the concept of good business reputation required for the appointment of senior managers of investment firms and investment fund managers is clarified. As an additional guarantee element, we recommend that training requirements be imposed on investment service providers for those who are in contact with customers. We want further tightening of investment service providers in line with other sectoral rules in the framework of supervision. Dear Parliament, I have already said that most of our financial legislation is affected by this package of proposals, so I would like to draw your attention to the amendments to the credit institution law. In principle, we have initiated a number of minor amendments to address the difficulties that have arisen in recent years, as well as to better regulate developing products and services, and also to resolve the interpretation of certain EU capital requirements rules in the bill. In addition to the Act on Credit Institutions, the draft law complements the regulation on complaint handling in all sectoral laws and, in parallel with the amendment of the procedure for recourse to the Financial Reconciliation Board, states that the service providers concerned must also provide, at the client's request, a request form, which is organised by the Conciliation Body, with a view to resolving complaints more effectively. The proposals put forward to improve the system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system, called the law, were also largely justified by practical experience and, in the meantime, the European Banking Authority has drawn up a number of guidelines and is also in the process of setting up so-called group resolution colleges where a number of interpretation issues can be resolved. Dear House, In the context of brokerage scandals, it was also necessary to tighten the rules on auditors. Through the proposal to amend the Act on the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, audit activities and audit public oversight, there will be a significant expansion of the public-interest farmers, changes in the system of special audit ratings, and a tightening of audit activities in a number of other areas. Under the proposal, the range of public-interest farmers includes both companies and investment firms that provide all credit institutions regardless of size. For certain farmers, only a qualified auditor or audit firm may carry out audit activities based on a statutory obligation. At present, auditors can obtain six special ratings: financial institutions, investment firms, cashiers, insurance companies, budgetary and IFRS ratings. Under the proposal, auditors of issuers under the Capital Markets Act can also obtain a new so-called issuer rating. On the basis of the proposal, instead of the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, the authority performing audit tasks, i.e. the Minister of National Economy, will be entitled to consider the application for certification. The granting and retention of ratings will also be subject to compliance with the professional qualification test, which the auditors will have to pass by 31 December 2017. Among the special ratings of the auditors of the financial institutions falling within the competence of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, there is a further tightening of the fact that only the bank auditor can have experience with the bank. Under the proposal, the Hungarian National Bank may also request the opening of proceedings for the withdrawal of the special rating of auditors. The scope of the public oversight authority measures relating to the quality control of auditors and audit firms of public-interest farmers, i.e. the scope of the measures taken by the Ministry of National Economy in this case is currently very limited. In the case of non-compliant quality control results, disciplinary action is initiated at the Chamber, which is not directly affected by the public oversight authority, i.e. by us. Based on the experience gained in these disciplinary proceedings over the past period, it is also considered appropriate to provide the public oversight authority with direct administrative sanctioning tools to ensure that public oversight aspects and public interest are properly respected. In addition to previous sanctions, such as the obligation to continue training, the warning, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings and the obligation to carry out re-audits, additional dissuasive sanctions will be introduced. [[21.20]] These could be the possibility of imposing fines up to HUF 100 million for individual auditors and up to HUF 500 million for audit firms, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the withdrawal of a special audit rating or even, in extreme cases, a ban on the activity for a maximum period of three years. On the basis of the proposal, it is appropriate, in the future, for public-interest farmers, to have an audit firm and an audit firm with liability insurance, the amount of which is proportionate to the extent of the damage that can be caused. On the basis of the proposal, this insurance amount is at least HUF 100 million for private auditors and HUF 500 million for audit firms. By way of derogation from the previous legislation, as a tightening of the proposal, not only the natural person is an auditor, but the audit firm cannot carry out audit activities with a duration of more than five years in the same public-interest entity. After the end of the audit mandate, four business years shall pass before the auditor can conclude an audit contract with the same public-interest entity. It is proposed that the auditor carrying out the audit of the public-interested economic operator should not provide the sponsor with a service other than the audit activity during the period between the beginning of the period under consideration and the issue of the audit report, and in the financial year immediately preceding that period. This is how we will minimise conflicts of interest between the auditor and the entity that he examines. Cooperation between authorities can help detect and prevent various abuses, and this requires the proper flow of information between the different authorities. According to the proposal, if the public oversight authority, in this case the Ministry of National Economy, provided the relevant public bodies, in particular the National Bank, provide classified information, business or professional secrecy, the public body concerned would also be subject to confidentiality. On the basis of the proposal, the National Bank may request the auditor or audit firm carrying out the audit of that institution to provide the information necessary for the determination of the facts during the audit procedure conducted by it. In this respect, the persons acting shall be bound by the same confidentiality as the auditor. Dear Parliament, Finally, in connection with bank and broker scandals over the past period, a number of tax laws have been required to be amended. On the one hand, the liquidation of a financial institution should not be allowed to put the individual clients of the institution in a position to pay back the benefits that they have lawfully used. To settle this, we are initiating an amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act. On the other hand, it was also necessary to ensure that the part of the advances paid to the recently established Quaestor-harmed claims fund that would not be repaid could be deducted from the corporate tax of the institutions concerned or from the special tax of financial institutions. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, before I finish the expo, let me say once again that the proposed legislation aims to further strengthen the financial intermediary system, to increase the effectiveness of financial and capital market regulation and to develop regulation that will lead to a customer-friendly financial environment. I believe that this is in our common interest, so I ask you to support the legislative proposals that have been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-28-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first stage, the keynote speeches will take place. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Following the Kulcsár case, in 2015, another series of socialist financial frauds shook the Hungarian public. On the basis of the ongoing official investigations, it appears likely that there has been a suspected abuse of both the Buda-Cash Broker House and the Quaestor since at least 2002. In 2009, Buda-Cash, linked to Gordon Bajnai, successfully circumvented the control system that was considered to be incomplete at the time, and also damaged small depositors and local governments by serious tens of billions. The government took immediate action and, in days, supported the victims, i.e. the injured small people and the municipalities. Instant assistance has been provided, and the damage assessment and the full detection of abuse have been launched rapidly. The government was able to intervene effectively, thanks to its rapid actions. Parliament has adopted a law whereby the entire assets of the groups of companies, the managers, owners, supervisory board members and the auditors concerned can be blocked. The property placed under the lock can be used to compensate the victims. At the same time, in order to avoid similar financial abuses in the future, comprehensive regulatory tightening is necessary. The aim of the bill is to strengthen financial consumer protection, to strengthen regulation on supervision of service providers and to adopt certain relevant rules of the European Union. The present package of laws aims at three things: preventing similar cases, strengthening the control system and restoring confidence in financial intermediaries. The many, many measures in this package of laws, we believe, are synergistically capable of strengthening each other. Dear House, In the context of the amendment of the National Bank Act, the draft provides for a comprehensive supervisory review of the Buda-Cash case, in place of five years for investment firms, on a three-year basis, as is the case for credit institutions. The law tightens the fine rules, the supervision can impose bigger fines, which strengthens the deterrent force of fines, the rigour that also needs to restore confidence. The proposal increases the amount of compensation payable by BEVA to EUR 100 thousand. However, the level of compensation remains only 100 per cent for HUF 1 million and 90 per cent for the amount above. BEVA will no longer have an independent work organisation, and the implementation of its operational tasks will be taken over by the OBA in the future. In addition, BEVA's ability to raise funds will be increased as it will now be able to obtain funds from bond issuance, which would also be subject to State guarantees such as the OBA. The proposal states that for certain farmers only a qualified chamber member auditor or audit firm may carry out such activities. Applications for certification shall be evaluated by the Minister of National Economy, but this shall be conditional upon the auditors having successfully passed the certification test. For so-called public-interest farmers, audit activities can only be carried out in the future by a chamber member auditor with a minimum liability insurance of HUF 100 million. In the case of audit firms, this insurance amount is HUF 500 million. An important change is that, on the basis of the proposal, the audit person and firm should not carry out audit activities in the same public-interest company for more than five years. Four business years must pass before that auditor can enter into a contract with that economic operator again. This is also in the interest of the auditors, since they too have suffered a lot of legitimate criticism since the brokerage scandal started. [[21.30]] Dear House, It should be stressed over and over again that until no problems were identified in 2010 immediately prior to the formation of the new government, the experts of the MNB discovered abuses at each brokerage company on the first day of the inspection, which became domino effect. This package of laws aims to increase the intensity and density of controls. Further, on the basis of certain provisions of the Law, the MNB places greater emphasis on on on-the-spot checks. In the future, the MNB would carry out comprehensive investigations at shorter intervals, and it could also provide for a so-called exceptional target test for serious market abuse even if it was suspected. On-the-spot inspections may be carried out by the MNB without delay with the involvement of external auditors and other experts, where appropriate. With regard to corporate tax and bank tax, the package of proposals provides that the amount of the outstanding debt paid by the contributors to the compensation fund for the damage caused by Quaestor reduces the amount of corporation tax and bank tax payable. This means that financial and investment firms which have paid advance payments to the claims fund of the Quaestor-harmed, but which are subsequently considered irrecoverable, will reduce the amount of corporation tax payable. If the claim is more than the corporation tax to be paid in that year, the remaining difference may be deducted from the following year's tax. If the advance cannot be enforced in any way through corporate tax, it may be deducted from the special tax of financial entities or from the special tax of credit institutions. Dear House, Fellow Members! In the case of broker scandals that have started in recent months, the compensation of tens of thousands of victims is progressing well, but it is also important to create a legal environment that ensures that no one has the opportunity to discredit customers in the future by deceiving tens of billions of forints. The package of laws before us serves these purposes, and I ask for its discussion and adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-28-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Congressman!
u2015-04-28-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was interesting to hear that after a very strong professional expo, Fidesz's lead speaker MSZP had a good taste for the broker scandal. I believe that, as we stand now, after you have been ruling for five years, it is hardly the essence of this matter. The Commissioner is right, as the Secretary of State said, that the bank falls, a series of frauds, known as broker scandals, not only cast a shadow on the operation of the Hungarian financial intermediary system, but, at this stage, it may not even be visible, I am afraid that we are only at the beginning of the loss of confidence, so it is understandable that you have come here quickly with such a proposal for a tightening of the law. At the same time, what they say about the sense of proportion may not be fulfilled according to professional opinions. If I were to put it very plastically, this package of laws is a wolf in sheep's clothing. Sheepskin is the increased protection of consumers, the tightening of control of the financial system, but the wolf inside is now eating up the possibility that the Hungarian National Bank can ever actually be required to compensate for the damage caused to its supervisory powers. This is at least such a serious part of this package of proposals. So the fact that it has a significant impact on the control powers of the Hungarian National Bank is quite appropriate, we told you at the time of the debate on the transformation law, when PSZAF was merged into the Hungarian National Bank, despite professional concerns, that it will not end well. We are very sad that these concerns have unfortunately become real. We feel that a significant part of the proposal is more of a replacement act, and, for example, the basically eligible rules for the financial conciliation body can be addressed in terms of refocusing attention. It can be doubted whether it is necessary to establish a separate office, when the task of running the body is currently the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank. In 2013, the new national bank law specifically fixed the liability for the damage caused by the administrative powers of the central bank, but also in a very restrictive way: if the National Bank fails, it will only be liable for the resulting damage if it has been directly caused by its failure. Such a requirement is not included in the rules on damage caused by administrative powers in the Civil Code, so it was already narrowing down compared to the otherwise general law of Ptk. Now, they put a shovel on this, so the National Bank wouldn't have to pay any compensation for the damage to the operation. According to the submission, it is also more difficult to bring an action for damages against the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, not only against an illegal national bank decision, but also in the event of a failure of the MNB, to bring an administrative action first, in which case if the National Bank is unsuccessful, it can be sued for damages - so they make it two steps. The victims of broker scandals cannot meet this condition in the first place, as there was no administrative procedure, their clients could not be, could not be, and therefore no administrative action can be brought. In fact, this is an assassination of the victims and the whole financial system against the positive statements of the Fidesz commentary on compensation, because the damage to some fraudulent financial institutions, instead of having at least partial liability in the context of insufficient supervision, the Hungarian National Bank will spread it to financial institutions, and will not give victims access to the claim in court. This is also the part where we see the horse's foot hanging out. It is also possible to minimise the loss of the lawsuit of the Hungarian National Bank with the amendment that the Central Bank may at any time change the part of its decision regarding the deadline for the performance of the court in a lawsuit, which is probably why some of the actions against the MNB may have started, so that the poison tooth can be removed. In administrative cases, this is an unknown solution, and generally in case law, to be a moving target, this is of particular concern from a professional point of view and makes the operation of the rule of law questionable. The control powers of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank are significantly increased, which may be fundamentally correct if we do not look at the toolbox it already has. Thus, there is an interesting view of the change in the fact that the category that may be included in the Central Bank Act is that the prohibition of the compulsory nature of the confession, the non-binding confession of the hearing in Hungarian, or, if it does so, it can be excluded from the proceedings. Such rules are known only by the Law on Criminal Procedure for constitutional reasons. The fact that this is being transferred to the Central Bank Act is rather strange, and it is likely that it will not stand up to it professionally. [[21.40]] The fact that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can act as an investigative authority, perhaps with an independent institution, if it is still in itself, the government-structured authority, such as the PSZF, would be justified, but that an unsupervised investigative authority would operate in the framework of central bank independence, which, in exceptional cases, is entitled to conduct on-the-spot research, even prior prosecutorial seizures, without judicial permission, also seems to be of concern. This bill itself is rather rainy, trying to do all kinds of apparent tightenings afterwards, and exempting the National Bank from liability on the grounds that it did not have sufficient powers at the disposal of the Central Bank. That's not true. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank is currently in possession of a series of supervisory permissions. He could carry out a target examination, a thematic examination, a comprehensive investigation, a follow-up check, market surveillance checks. He has been able to carry out on-the-spot checks and conduct a trial transaction, which he has just mentioned as a new element, Mr Secretary of State. In the course of the audits, he had access to a contributor, expert and independent auditor. The National Bank wasn't prevented at all, so it seems a little bit like a nutmeg bath. A major increase in the supervision tool can be considered as an exceptional target inspection and an on-the-spot research and investigation option, which can be considered as an almost investigative power in market surveillance procedures. At the same time, the question arises for the lay observer, why, if it was possible for the NAV to connect the 200,000 cash registers online, financial supervision, which in this case is the National Bank, could not have similar technological and technical developments. If the Fidesz lead speaker has turned into such a political figure, let me note - although he is no longer in the room and then reads the report - that Fidesz has not only taken the side of fraud brokers, and it seems to protect those who have done nothing to prevent fraud, i.e. the failure of the National Bank can at least be significantly responsible for the continuation and development of abuses. This should also involve financial responsibility in our opinion. It seems that they not only want to correct errors, but also to grant immunity from liability. In the Central Bank Act, the broker scandal is now not in the interest of the injured, but in the interest of the Hungarian National Bank. So when György Matolcsy installs 200 billion in his foundations, he buys properties for 30 billion, so, let's say, he spends the money of the National Bank with two hands, he doesn't want to take responsibility for the damage caused by insufficient supervision. I listened to it with a very good feeling when the Secretary of State said that, from now on, good business reputation and banking practice will be a prerequisite for the mandate of bank managers. I ask you very nicely that this be enforced in the case of György Matolcsy, because neither his banking practice nor his so-called business reputation; no one regards it as a fair, consistent man, so it is a requirement, we believe, that there must be consistency. If you like it, as part of the facilitation of complaint handling, please enter this in the first complaint that we ask for the screening of György Matolcsy under the new law. Similarly to ethical business, on which Mr Secretary of State's words were also very positive. I would also like to mention the corrective amendments made to the MSZP. We propose that the establishment of the Supervisory Board of the Central Bank as a permanent control body of Parliament cannot be prevented by any factors, so that legal supervision over the activities of György Matolcsy can finally be restored. The functions of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank do not currently cover any of the activities of the MNB which are the supervision of the financial intermediary system. We don't think that's acceptable. No one checks the inspector, the government cannot control the independence of the central bank, but on the one hand, the supervisory board, which provides Parliament's control, has not been established because it has not been established - we would also like to provide a legal guarantee - and on the other hand, it does not cover the review of control tasks as it stands. The second is that in recent years the Hungarian National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, has constantly sought to minimise its responsibilities, so that it can be called to account as hard as possible because of its activity or its failure to do so. This line will continue with the present submission. The new National Banking Act adopted in 2003 makes it much more difficult than the civil code, laying down much stricter rules for determining liability for damages, so the central bank is only liable for the damage it caused if it was directly caused. We believe that he is responsible not only for material damage but also for moral damage. This bill makes liability rules more difficult, which is unacceptable. We believe that what Viktor Orbán said on 6 May 2011 that Hungary cannot be a country without consequences in the future should now be enforced. Obviously, by assuming responsibility, the damage caused by insufficient supervision activities must be good for the Hungarian National Bank, which is both a financial responsibility and a moral responsibility. We do not see all of this reflected in this proposal, and we therefore propose this to be recast, at the very least to take account of our amendments, and not to establish a system in which the National Bank cannot be controlled or held accountable. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-28-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-167	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Court's report on the operation of financial supervision before 2013 confirmed that the Parliament had made a necessary and particularly good decision when it placed the public oversight of financial institutions under the control of the MNB by October 2013. Financial supervision strengthened by central bank management from 2013 has demonstrated its ability to detect and detect decades of irregularities in the financial sector, the brokerage market, much more effectively. Now we have the bill to further tighten financial supervision and put the investor market in order to make sure that it is never again possible for brokers to steal people for decades without delay. The Fidesz-KDNP clearly stands up for people. We hope that the opposition will also stand up for the people and therefore support these tightening ups. Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to strengthen financial consumer protection provisions. To this end, the bill contains amendments to a number of laws on financial matters and strengthens the regulation on the supervision of service providers. Due to mandatory requirements for compliance with EU directives and legislation, and to facilitate greater transparency and enhanced monitoring of market processes, it is necessary to amend 20 financial-related laws in approximately 279 paragraphs. [[21.50]] In particular, the following laws are amended: XCVI 1993 on voluntary mutual insurance institutions. Act CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax Act LXXXII of 1997 on private pensions and private pension funds Act CXX of 2000 on the Capital Markets. Act No XXIII of 2003 on the finality of settlement in payment and securities settlement systems LIX of 2006 on special tax and annuity to improve the balance of public finances. LXXV of 2007 on the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, audit activities and audit public oversight. Act CXVII of 2007 on occupational pensions and institutions Act CXXXVIII of 2007 on investment firms and commodity services and the rules for their activities. LXXV of 2011 on the fixing of the exchange rate for foreign exchange loans and the order for the forced sale of residential immovable property. Act CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Act 2; CCXXXV of 2013 on certain payment service providers. Act CCXXXVII of 2013 on credit institutions and financial institutions Act No XVI of 2014 on collective investment schemes and their managers and amending certain financial laws Act XXXVII of 2014 on the further development of the institutional system to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system Act 2; and Act LXXXVIII of 2014 on Insurance Activities Law. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear from all of this that the bill wants to regulate our financial intermediary system in a very complex way in such a way that it is more transparent and verifiable while maintaining the functioning of fair market players. In order to achieve these, NGM submitted a T/4393 amending certain laws in order to promote the development of a financial intermediary system. Bill No. 1. In order to strengthen financial consumer protection, the bill strengthens the regulation on supervision of financial service providers and, on the other hand, transposes EU rules into the Hungarian legal system. According to the bill, the MNB conducts investigations with credit institutions, insurance companies, investment firms, commodity service providers and investment managers at least every three years and is subject to a comprehensive investigation. The bill introduces the possibility of extreme target testing, which can be done in the event of serious market abuse. The time limits for this procedure are shorter than for the normal target test, i.e. allow the MNB to react quickly. The amount of compensation to be paid by BEVA is increased by the bill to EUR 100 thousand and extended to include cases where the Fund may impose an exceptional payment obligation. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can see from all this that both the government and Parliament are doing everything in their power to clean up the brokerage market. Fidesz.KDNP explores decades of financial abuse, ends the abuse of brokers, and compensates the victims. Please support T/4393. Bill No. 1; KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government side.]]
u2015-04-28-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-04-28-169	Mr President, Dear House, It is a little strange to argue on this issue at 10 o'clock in the evening; as if this topic had been hidden in the agenda, perhaps not only at the end of the day, but also at a slightly unworthy place in terms of its seriousness. So let's say what we have to say about this. I do not want to simplify the issue to mention Fidesz and MSZP as members of the Quaestor coalition; by the way, the MSZP has provided a substantial 17 billion guarantee for Quaestor's activities, if you will. We could also say that five years have passed since then, and we are absolutely right to say that it is not possible to pin this problem on the MSZP, that in 2010 the proposals for solutions were already on the table that could have prevented both the Buda-Cash scandal and the Quaestor scandal. Therefore, I must say that if we move towards any tightening up at the moment - obviously, if this happens in sane conditions and under foreseeable market conditions, protecting the interests of the Hungarian people against the brokers - Jobbik can support and support this. At the same time, we must say that if there are problems such as, in relation to the motion before us, we can see that the situation, possibilities and framework of the Hungarian National Bank will not be resolved, and indeed there may be a situation in which the supervision of the MNB is not provided, but that, at the same time, its capacity to be held accountable or restricted or excluded, we can say that you have indeed hidden mines in this motion which at least dissuade opposition representatives in terms of the possibility of support, or prevent them from fully. It is therefore your responsibility, in my view, to see these omissions. However, I would also like to mention the more than twenty amendments, namely 24 which our fellow Member János Volner put on the table in 2010, precisely in order to prevent similar scandals and world scandals. However, I would like to suggest to you that as many of these as possible be transferred, the question arises as to what we have been waiting for for for four and a half years. Have you not noticed the existence of this problem for four and a half years? Did you not know that such processes are taking place and taking place in the financial market in Hungary? I could give you a list of examples. You don't have to go back to K&H Equities anyway, where the methods were spookily similar, but we can say that it was visible, it was perfectly visible what was being made in Hungary. And let's just remember the Globex bonds with a 40-percent return - I'm just bringing up the cases before me - that was also a case that reminded me of the same pyramid game as Buda-Cash. It grew, the balloon grew, and then I remember it popping out in 1998. The Quaestor case is a spooky reminder of K&H Equities, and we have to say that the State Motorway Manager's money was used there to acquire Pannonplast's majority property through certain companies - at least that's what the accusation is about. Procedures may still take place, if appropriate, in a decade-long perspective. So don't tell me and us that you had no idea about certain money market developments. What happened in the case of Buda-Cash or Quaestor shows very serious similarities, and the main problem is that in 2010 this could have been prevented. I would like to say briefly what amendments we are proposing now, and not all 24 of them, I do not wish to abuse anyone's patience. The list of amendments submitted to the PSCF Act consists of the establishment of a target area for control on a monthly basis instead of six months. [[22.00]] Obviously, it was already here that police assistance could be used for on-the-spot checks - in some cases this might be necessary - but also that the data needed for the inspection should not be sent, but that it should be provided on-the-spot. Similarly, it was a very important change and an amendment proposal to separate the persons who wanted to be interviewed. What would be meaty, and not for us, is that the maximum amount of the procedural fine instead of 10 million - hold on - would have been maximized by Jobbik at HUF 2 billion, and it is obvious that we are recommending this direction to everyone now. It can also be seen that if the financial intermediary system was compromised in the course of the procedure - this was the better motion - then instead of notifying the MNB, the Financial Stability Board could be convened, taking substantial steps. Then, in the case of checks, the cooperative credit institution, investment firm or other example, the stock exchange provider or investment manager could have carried out a comprehensive audit every two years instead of five, which was in Jobbik's proposal. You were able to vote off this, so you did not receive this more frequent audit at the time. Then, in another amending proposal, we wanted to carry out a comprehensive audit every three years at a bank, a specialised credit institution, an insurance company or a reinsurance undertaking. In addition, the former institutions would have been notified only eight days before the start of the audit instead of 15; this would have been more precisely what the better amendment would have allowed. We would also have modified the ceiling of the fine imposed on the managers of the stock exchange providers: we would have increased the ceiling of this fine to HUF 1 billion instead of HUF 20 million. Obviously, in the case of a consumer protection fine, the ceiling would have increased to HUF 5 billion instead of HUF 100 million for an entity or person with an annual net turnover of more than HUF 100 million. So we put amendments on the table that would have been able to put the situation on the table, which could have prevented this series of scandals. I'll give you another example: the top of the fine for a service due to a lack of notification or permission would not have remained for HUF 500 million, but Jobbik would have raised it to HUF 2 billion. I would like to highlight an amendment that went through almost the period in question, as I recall, in the second half of the previous term. This was a better amendment, of a consumer nature, linked to the name of our fellow Member at the time, and specifically to the abuse of food safety abuses and trade chains, we managed to raise the highest fine to close to HUF 2 billion at the time, and you accepted this amendment; perhaps three of these were in the 2010-2014 term, but this amendment passed. In the money market, however, when Jobbik wanted to tidy up with 24 amendments, see a miracle, none of his ideas went through, even though - we said it there, we can say it now - we do not stick to the Jobbik logo, so please submit them all under your own name, and we will vote for it. Now, in the package before us, there are indications of this, and I appreciate them, because we shouldn't be against it, if there's anything good in front of us, we should acknowledge it. I am only mentioning the shortcomings that can be seen in the case of the MNB that they are unable to set up and settle the supervisory board; they justify it with a very inexpensive excuse that opposition parties are supposed to be unable to agree on whom to delegate and in what number it was found that it was not true. In fact, there is a series of omissions that are clearly necessary in order to ensure that the supervision of the MNB is finally resolved. If the broker scandals don't prove it's necessary, then what proves it? The other is that your package also creates a situation with regard to the MNB that, in some cases, it cannot be held accountable if it has caused damage in its jurisdiction that would otherwise not have occurred, and even if in some cases the procedure could be initiated, the market average would imply very long proceedings lasting for decades, years, years, and years, but, where appropriate, decades. That is why this part of this package is not realistic at all. I also wanted to present the multitude of our previous amendments and our current amendments to the wider public in order to show that this problem did not come between us now and in 2015 out of nowhere. If the Fidesz-KDNP has not seen this for four and a half years, then that is a huge problem, because they share not only the suitability of financial supervision in my opinion, but also the suitability of Fidesz-KDNP and the government. And if they saw and did nothing, let the problem escalate, and then they just follow, then it's true that after the rain, it's true. We must therefore say that we think it would be an honest attitude if you would stand here now and tell us that you have noticed these processes, that you could not or did not want to interfere with some deal, pact or lack of action. You can now see what a huge problem this could be, and you can obviously see the responsibility of the socialists and the former, but you have been on the government for five years, and you are asking Parliament, in recognition of this responsibility, to try to settle this problem for the future on the basis of a public agreement. The full range of guarantees for this future is not yet available, so until then, these questions hanging in the air remain at the heart of the interest as to what will become of the MNB's activities, whether anyone will verify and be accountable if its activities did not comply with either the legal requirements or the legislation in force. As a final question, what we have here is the potential obstacle to the refusal to support Jobbik's fair, well-directed amendments in 2010 and to show no willingness to fully accept them, even though our amendments want to ensure that brokers who are out of the way of law and the way of the law do not pass fines of 10 to 20 million, but billions, and sanctions with real deterrent powers enter this system. It is therefore admirable if someone on this path does not wish to support Jobbik, but their responsibility must already be borne by you.
u2015-04-28-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-28-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's using this pick-me-up salad package to prevent the Quaestor scandal from burning on it. The LMP's proposals for resolving the situation of foreign exchange lenders, the irresponsible distribution of money by the MNB and the collapses of banks and broker scandals pointed out that there were serious problems in the financial sector. In connection with the fall of Buda-Cash and Quaestor, we proposed the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry committee, which Fidesz-KDNP does not want to know about, lost somewhere in the system. The purpose of the committee of inquiry would be to find out who is responsible for the brokerage of tens of thousands of small investors, who has made mistakes, what are the shortcomings of financial regulation, whether financial supervision worked effectively. The point is that there should be a comprehensive study on the basis of which proposals could and should be made for the further development of the financial system. In many cases, both in Parliament and in front of the press, we have said that foreign currency credit is a defective product, and we have protested against the forinting at the market rate, because only the MNB has won more than HUF 100 billion on this one, i.e. we have brought the government's attention to the unthinking financial interventions and the MNB's spending of money. Although there are elements of the proposed legislation that the LMP could support, such as the fact that the financial proposal package aims to strengthen supervisory powers in order to ensure proper control of investment firms, or to strengthen regulation on supervision of service providers and strengthen financial consumer protection and transparency criteria in the issue of securities. It would also be possible to support the proposal to grant the Hungarian National Bank a new licence to restore confidence in the financial markets, which will make it more effective to seek evidence of the infringement that is the subject of on-the-spot research. It is proposed that the MNB should carry out on-the-spot inspections of market participants at shorter intervals, while introducing the possibility of exceptional target testing. However, it should be pointed out that, for example, in several developed countries, software is already being used to ensure continuous monitoring [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] , i.e. it is immediately revealed that there are systemic errors and it does not need to be determined that it is to be examined on a quarterly basis, every six months, annually, so it should be monitored continuously. [[22.10]] It follows that the LMP alone could support the strengthening of financial supervision. However, we believe that the current management of the central bank will not be able to ensure the safe functioning of the financial system in case of stronger powers. The zeroth step, therefore, is that György Matolcsy must be replaced and the MNB's supervisory board should be set up. Returning to the package of proposals, it proposes much stricter requirements for auditors. It can be welcomed that, under the proposal, only qualified chamber audit or audit firm may carry out audit activities based on statutory obligations for certain farmers; it is also possible that not only the natural person auditor but also the audit firm may not carry out statutory audit activities for more than five years with the same public-interest farmer. But brainstorming isn't enough anymore. The stakes are to regain people's confidence in the financial sector and to take all the measures that result in no Quaestor scandals and not to play with small people's money. But this first requires a comprehensive review, and this may be the basis for such a bill. According to some surveys, 1.2 percent of GDP is lost annually due to inadequate regulation of the financial sector. The evidence of poor standards is also that offshore companies can get close to public funds, even though it is against the law. Over the last few weeks, we have been able to see precisely that the government is controlled only by averting responsibility and political smearing, and there is a political game going on. Last week, Fidesz submitted an ad hoc presentation to the Committee on Budgets on the establishment of a subcommittee to investigate the Buda-Cash and Quaestor scandals, but does not wait for the results and proposals of the parliamentary subcommittee's investigation. The LMP is therefore also deeply skeptical about the work of the Board, which has not been sufficiently thought out. The events of the past months have proved to everyone what the LMP has been saying for years: we need a complete review of the Hungarian financial system and a real, in-depth transformation. Financial regulation must be tightened, supervision made more effective and harmful relations between the political and financial worlds should be explored. This law is not suitable for this. Fidesz merely wants to solve the problem in order not to recognise its own responsibility in the situation that has arisen, by absolving a bad system. They wouldn't dare touch the whole system, because they would admit that the system has been bad so far. However, absolving is not a solution, it may be able to correct some errors, but the system that is fundamentally defective will continue to create serious problems, and it will not be enough for the government to make a law after each such mistake that continues to stain the system after the trouble has occurred. No one can imagine that, after five years of Fidesz government, such a wave of bankruptcy can be arranged with the fact that it is the responsibility of socialist governments. The Fidesz just pushes back and pretends to do something to solve the problem. According to the LMP, a genuine and comprehensive examination of the financial system and supervision would first be needed, and thereafter, based on its experience, a complete reform of the financial system regime. However, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP constantly renders the investigation impossible, and at the level of the regulation, they are only willing to masturbate like this law, which are guaranteed to produce no real results. This law is not enough to prevent another Quaestor scandal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-28-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, a two-minute speech will take place. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, So I agree with Mrs Schmuck, Mrs Erzsébet, when she says that, in fact, this crisis of confidence cannot be corrected by means of absolution and absolution. I find it very unfortunate that, at the beginning of the broker scandals, Fidesz clearly tried to push this into a political field, although this is basically a professional issue. They should admit that the three supervisions under the National Bank of Hungary were bad. At the time, after the Titanic disaster, a convention commission examined the events and radically rewritten the shipping rules. So you can't say that there's a company that's allowed to issue $60 billion of bonds, and no one realizes that they're selling for $210, saying that there's no responsibility, no BEVA, no OBA, no one's taking responsibility for it. So, it's not a responsible government attitude. I say, too, that we should have a substantive parliamentary committee of inquiry, but it is essential to face the need for a much higher level of control, with much more modern control techniques, and, in addition, tightening up can bring results. But it is in itself that an organisation that is subject to banking independence is given powers such as the National Tax and Customs Bureau's investigative bodies, which is still part of the governance structure, part of parliamentary control, that is not comparable. So this is the Titanic of the Hungarian financial system, and we consider it necessary to complete the transformation of the rules of the corresponding weight. Thank you.
u2015-04-28-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-28-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I believe that the events of the last few months have made it clear to all of us that we must do everything we can to ensure that decades of financial corruption must be eliminated once and for all, so that the domestic wolves of Wall Street can no longer abuse their financial power. In order to avoid similar abuses in the future, it is necessary to provide for stricter control rules for brokerage companies. The Buda-Cash, close to Bajnai Gordon, was interestingly interrupted in the last moments before the 2010 elections, and those close to the broker company were aware that the on-the-spot investigation that would take place every five years would not be expected for a long time. It is not a coincidence that everything was found in the 2010 investigations, and the investigation of 15 found that there were maladministration on the first day. The Capital Markets Act adopted in 2001 stated that on-the-spot checks should be carried out on investment firms and fund managers every two years. However, this provision was removed from the law in 2005. The obligation to conduct a comprehensive investigation was re-introduced by the Socialist Government only in 2009 under the pressure of the IMF by CXXXV of 2007 on the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. by amending the law. In addition, the PSF only had to conduct a comprehensive investigation at the brokerage companies every five years. In a comprehensive study including on-site elements, as shown by its name, comprehensively, at the depth defined in the risk classification, all risk segments, corporate governance such as ownership structure, management and control, strategy, market risks, capital position, credibility of reporting, liquidity risk, credit risk and other operational risks will be monitored. [[22.20]] In view of the Buda-Cash case, this bill also requires investment firms to carry out a comprehensive supervisory review every three years instead of five years. Thus, brokerage companies will be comprehensively examined by supervision at the same frequency as the traditional banks and financial institutions on the market, thereby contributing to the failure in the future to achieve a series of frauds such as the current one that endangers the savings of tens of thousands of individuals. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-28-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Józsa is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-04-28-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible to argue in a parliamentary professional debate about who is related to whom, which is why I do not want to mention KDNP personal relationships, family relationships, that is far from me. At the same time, what Attila Szabolcs says is that everything must be done, then do everything you can. That's what we're saying. Higher professional standards, the application of modern control tools, the rule of law, the restoration of constitutional order, the three supervisors must be taken from the National Bank, because in this case they cannot be given such investigative powers on a constitutional basis, they should be given the authority of such an organisation of violence, because constitutional control simply cannot be guaranteed. If all of these were together, if they admitted that the financial supervision activity under the National Bank was not sufficiently operational in Hungary, because if it were sufficient, then these incredibly large failures - as I mentioned here the 150 billion excess - would not have followed, if all of them were to be seen, they would be closer to what Attila Szabolcs said would have to do to protect depositors, investors and to restore confidence significantly shaken in the Hungarian financial intermediary system. Do you think there will be a normal, sane investor who will come to Hungary in the event of this kind of absolution? If you see the government pouring money into one of the companies, trading houses, this one, that one, that one, billions, the Prime Minister has the authority to return the money one day before the fall - this is a banana republic, gentlemen! Do whatever you can to restore confidence.
u2015-04-28-178	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] It's too early! [[Defiance.]] [[No signal.]] It's too early! (Faintness. ) Nobody? (No indication. ) As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Gábor Orbán nodds.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-28-179	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, I would like to thank those who paid attention to the bill for having thoroughly reviewed it and expressed their views on it. I would particularly like to thank those Members who have given at least part of their support to this bill. I repeat that, among other things, the aim of our proposal is to give supervision the means to minimise the harm that could be caused by unlawful conduct by detecting this unlawful behaviour earlier in time than before. This requires more freedom of movement for supervision, especially for inspectors. So I think you can see that the inspector can't work properly in an environment where he has to carry out a check aware of the threat that any indirect damage to the supervised institution will ultimately be his responsibility. That's why it's been a while - and we haven't changed that - that direct damage is only considered to be something for which the inspector, supervision, can be held accountable. Similarly, the litigation and accountability of the MNB have not changed. This is a misunderstanding, this bill is not about that. The Chairman of the MNB may continue to be invited to the Economic Committee on any subject. [[Dr. István Józsa: If the president invites you in!]] It is not excluded that the MNB should be held liable in legal terms, but that the National Bank as an authority should be treated as a public authority in this case. Allow me to add one more thought to the debate on continuous online supervision. So when we are arguing about this, and I think we can argue, among other things, at Thursday's five-party meeting, it will be possible for them to express their views, here is the case that we may have a very serious gap in the shield. After all, the savings of millions of people, millions of Hungarians, are at stake, so that if we open those firewalls, we will open the Internet gates that are currently protecting data on the Hungarian people's savings. So make such a suggestion with caution, throwing such ideas in your sense of responsibility. We need to discuss this thoroughly, perhaps not today and not now, but I think that it is worth paying attention to such technical details. Once again, I ask you to support this bill in order to strengthen the financial system and strengthen supervisory powers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-28-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I thank you for your work, thank you for the record keeping, the hard work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a restful, beautiful, peaceful, good night. Thank you very much. [[Meeting ended at 10:27 p.m.]]
