u2015-03-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, MEP Jobbik, has applied for a speech before the agenda today. You have the floor, Congressman, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-03-02-1	[[The members of the Jobbik-image group wear the same T-shirt, with the subtitle:.]] Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, I said in my speech that the last seven years have meant seven short years for pensioners and those who are approaching the pension. I already said that these seven narrow years began with the Socialists raising the retirement age to 65 years and then taking away 8 percent of the pensions for the 13th month pension. Then Fidesz came, they closed the service pensions, they took away the private pension fund, that fleeting HUF 3000 billion from 3 million people, and eventually they stopped early retirement. The result of all this is that, at the moment, GDP is not only the lowest, not only wages are the lowest, but also as shown in this statement. [[He's showing it to me.]] , pensions are also by far the lowest. They are by far the lowest, and countries like Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland are ahead of us, just to say a few neighbouring countries, but now Romania is also coming to us. And as a result, more than 300,000 people have to live on pensions below 70,000 forints in Hungary today. My last speech was answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, and he will probably answer it now, and that answer was absolutely amazing. But it was not only us, honourable Secretary of State, who was amazing - we do not always have to smile on this subject! - but a lot of people, at least in the seven residential forums that I've spent my time on in the last two weeks, there's a lot of people there who have said that they're upset with your response at that time, on that cheesy, arrogant style that you shouldn't have, but it could cause your downfall, in general. Then you accused us of all kinds of lies, like not dealing with pension issues. Then watch the video on YouTube: those who didn't like your reply made a pretty good answer. And let's see what the reactions were, because, as I said, I participated in seven of these forums across the country. And I don't want to talk about paramedics, not firefighters, who can't be expected to run up to the 10th floor at the age of 65 with 30 kilos of equipment to put out fire, although in Parliament, common sense seems to be lacking. Well, I don't want to talk about them or bus drivers or drivers, I want to talk about the simple working man who started working when he was 17 because he graduated from the vocational training institute. Who has to work half a century due to the fact that the Socialists have raised the retirement age, you have not changed it, so far they do not wish to change it, as has been said, even by allowing men to retire after 40 years of employment. Imagine yourself in that man's situation and go away, and then ask people in residential forums what they would say about being able to go to work when they were a kid, their grandparents, their parents took him to his house, worked there as a child, and then, at 14 years old, they had to get up at 5:00 a.m. to go to their work at 6:00 a.m., to the workplace that was their practical place. I personally know what that means, of course. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, as a young citizen of Buda, you have not experienced this, but you can still feel it in this situation. And please feel comfortable, and I would ask the entire Fidesz fraction and the socialists, of course, to feel comfortable with the situation of the man who has to work half a century in Hungary, and not get up at 8:00 a.m., but at 6:00, 5:00, 4:00 or 3:00 to build the houses here in Budapest. We have put a proposal on the table, we expect you to respond in the coming days to our request whether you are willing to conduct a five-party consultation on this issue, because it is clear that the male society is now realizing that the retirement age is rising, that it cannot remain this way, because even the Roman slave had better things to do, because after seven years he could replace himself with work from slavery, but it seems that a Hungarian worker cannot replace himself with fifty years' work. I request your reply to the Secretary of State. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-2	Thank you, Congressman, Mr Vice President. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know how good your memory is, Congressman. Do you remember what you were doing on December 20, 2010 in an evening hour at 7:36 p.m. at 46 seconds? Do you remember what you did? Here in Parliament, he voted against women's retirement after 40 years of employment. [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Fidesz: Oops! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Together with the MSZP, Jobbik's faction, 88 people voted against and abstained. You weren't alone in not voting for it, you weren't supported by T/1745. a proposal for a regulation of which Article 1 is amended as follows: §2 of the Act introduced the possibility for women to retire after 40 years of employment in Hungary. I think that the fellow Members who didn't support it at the time might be able to take off this T-shirt. This was the case, Mr. István Apáti - I don't know if he has his shirt on here - Mr. Gergő Balla also didn't support it, Mr. Tibor Bana didn't support the retirement of women after 40 years; Zsolt Barna Barna Bardecs Barna Bödecs, Mrs Dúró - she arrived here in a nice T-shirt, but then she didn't support the possibility for women - Mr. Zsolt Egyed, MEP Zsolt Endrésik, Member Gergely Farkas, Gábor Ferenczi, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy - she's no longer here, but then she didn't support her - Dr. Géza Gyenes - I don't know if she's here - Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi, on the first line, the T-s wearing the T-s shirt to retire after 40 years. Somehow in 2010, she did not support this in the case of women. Csaba Gyüre, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Tamás Hegedűs, Lajos Kepli, Representative Sándor Kiss, Miklós Korondi, they are all right-handers. I could also give you MSZP names, by the way, because they voted with them on this issue as well. Gergely Kulcsár, Balázs Lenhardt, Magyar Zoltán, Levente Murányi, Zsolt Németh, Előd Novák, László Nyikos, Gergely Rubi, Gergely Samu, Tamás Gergő - here comes you, honourable Member -, Gábor Szabó, György Szilágyi, György Vágó Sebestyén, Géza Varga, János Volner, Dániel Z. Kárpát, László Zakó and Gábor Ivády - gender, independent Member Gábor Ivády, László Zakó is the last right hand. [[13.10]] Which arguments you've just given me [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] In 2010, that night in December - if I remember correctly, yes, 20 December, before Christmas - the same arguments did not exist for women to retire after 40 years? At the time, the Jobbik faction came in in in its entirety, and pressed a button, which I am abstaining from, instead of supporting this proposal, along with the socialists, independents and others. What happened to Jobbik in four years, that Fidesz-KDNP could not support this proposal, and now it is the opposite? [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Which argument should we take for granted, honourable Member? The argument you've given us to justify why women don't have the opportunity to retire after 40 years, or to believe you when you tell us why men are entitled to 40 years? [[Tamás Sneider: Don't lie! You're lying again.]] There's one thing we can tell you for sure. [[Tamás Sneider: What else was in the law?]] Your vote. It's your vote, the vote of the entire Jobbik faction. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] It went against the Fidesz-KDNP proposal, which, fortunately, now, I think about 130,000 women have been able to retire after 40 years of employment, in which some of the time spent in raising children is, of course, included in their retirement. Then you, Congressman, have not supported this; this is a huge credibility gap in Jobbik's policy. This shows that this is nothing more than an opportunistic catch, a sudden idea that goes against their previous position, but they believe that they can achieve results in the short term, with a pep rally and with this proposal. It's just not disrespectful to Fidesz-KDNP... - you can do it to us; you can do it to the people you said you respected, you want to represent them here in Parliament, and you said no to the same question four years ago, and now you've turned from one moment to the next. This means that you are not a representative of pensioners or pensioners, but only of short-term profiteering. [[Tamás Sneider: What about men? Now it'll only take a few seconds.]] leads, Jobbik has no other purpose, and this concerns not only this issue, but also the policy of Jobbik. Fortunately, in the context of what you have already mentioned - in the half minute that I have at my disposal, I would say - the proportion of people over 65 years of age living in relative income poverty on the basis of data validated by Eurostat is also 4,4 per cent, while the EU average is 13.8 per cent. So there's a much smaller proportion of them. [[Gábor Vona intervenes.]] who have to make less money than others. I would just like to repeat that, honourable Member. [[György Szilágyi: What Are You Answering? There's no answer! The president's ringing the bell.]] that in this Parliament, you could have decided to raise your pension five times and never supported it once. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] The pension increase was never voted here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-4	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member Mátyás Firtl, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-5	Mr President, Dear House, With the establishment of the Eszterháza Cultural, Research and Festival Centre, Hungary's government has enabled the Esterházy Castle complex in Fertőd to become one of the cultural and spiritual centres of Europe and one of Hungary's most important cultural and tourist sites. The two historical families of Hungary, the Esterházys and the Széchenyi, are present in the region as a conservation and identity strengthening force. This power can be put into the service of the region and the nation, as these families have served growth and development in different ways, but with their lives. The government also recognised that the Eszterháza Center, due to its sense of mission as the most complex organisational unit, was designed with an excellent professional background to make the Széchenyi Heritage a success alongside Esterházy in order to serve the future. What unites at regional level, in its geographical location, over the course of common history, can be reconnected to the future of the region, the country. This task - we can safely say - is no less important in the present than what the Széchenyi and the Esterházys have already done at their age; it is also our legacy and inherited responsibility. Practically means a system of direction based on a scientific basis, which gives a vision in terms of tourism, art, history, economic and community, and which is important now, before our national holiday, to strengthen our national identity. The development of the Eszterháza Center creates virtually the possibility of presenting and developing the Széchenyi heritage, which is currently in an unworthy state of dismemberment, worthy of the rank of the entire object system. Within the framework of the Eszterháza Centre, the building complex of the Széchenyi Castle and the unifying development of the Széchenyi environment will be worthy of the spirit and national significance of the historical family and name. The Széchenyi nation's love for the future generation must be an eternal example. Their actions, which served the country's benefit and prosperity, are one of the sure spiritual foundations for the future of successful Hungarians who are growing in identity and nation-conscious. * Respect the past so that you can understand the present and work on the future. 'Széchenyi István,' said. Dear House, The festival of 1848 is approaching. On March 17, Széchenyi wrote the following: "My policy was certain, but slow. Kossuth put everything on one card and won the country at least as much as my politics couldn't have produced in 20 years! If reaction doesn't happen and we have more patriotism than envy, and there's more bourgeois virtue than glory, I'm sure there'll be something else in Hungary and much more! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, At our national festival in 1848, the young March of the revolutionary youth of all time, it may be an attempt to make our Nagyceny, the Széchenyi Heritage site, a national pilgrimage place for young people in the first place. Although Széchenyi served the transformation differently compared to Kossuth, his intentions and actions fed on the same nation-consciousness and nation-love, as evidenced by his earlier words. This is why it is important that a national class trip to the Széchenyi Memorial Sites is launched, as a model of the cross-border class trips, so that every Hungarian high school student can reach at least once the largest Hungarian residence, his current resting place, the region, and experience the spirit of the place. Yes, the festival should also be an opportunity to make it clear once and for all that castle renovations are not for themselves. Not only do they mean saving stones, walls, furniture, but they will also revive and work forces that build our future from the past and values of our nation. In this way, one of our most important castle development worthy of the celebration can be made aware of this function of patriotism, proving the practical application of one of the fundamental principles of the Eszterháza Center that cultural heritage is part of national consciousness. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2015-03-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, will respond.
u2015-03-02-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank you, Mr President, not only for your speech before today's agenda, but also for the sacrifice you are doing as a representative of the district in order to develop Nagycenk and Fertőd and Eszterháza. I would like to tell my fellow Members that Mr Firtl is one of the drivers of developments in the region. I fully agree with what you said in your speech before the agenda. We also believe that both the Széchenyi and the Esterházy heritage are public affairs and our joint task. We would like Nagycenken to welcome visitors to a worthy museum compared to the current state of decay. Building a national center of cult and pilgrimage is one of our key goals. So we agree with the congressman. Let us look briefly at what has been achieved so far: by spring 2014, an independent, new state cultural centre, the Eszterháza Center, was set up. This centre operates and develops the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, but at the same time it is the center that takes over the operation of the Castle in Fertőrákos, and Nagycenk is also in the process of achieving a unified management of assets. The four castle ensembles previously in different hands will be in one hand, so that the Eszterháza Centre will be the trustee of all buildings of historic importance in the region. At the same time, significant tourist developments are being implemented. Just last week, we presented the developments in the region together with the representative of the Travel exhibition and the bikeexpón. We would like to overcome the great lag that marked the biking trails around Lake Fertő. The bicycle route between Pomogy and Balf has already been completed, and the new bicycle route between Balf and Fertőrákos is also being built. Soon we will be finished with all of this, so the Lake Fertő can be circled around the Hungarian area as well. The entire renovation of the western wing of the Esterházy castle and the renovation of the castle are underway. Then we move forward with the old historical buildings. Indeed, the most urgent tasks are the settlement of the situation of the Castle of Nagycenk. This was driven forward by the government decision of 1968/2013, in which we provided HUF 100 million in funding for the most important renovation work. Here with the partial reconstruction we will be ready this year. Increasing the number of visitors is a strategic goal. While there is no child in Hungary today who does not learn about the largest Hungarian, today's visit to the memorial museum does not reach 30,000 people; the latest data show 27 thousand people. This is very small, we must definitely increase this. As we see the success of the Eszterháza Center, the number of visitors has been growing dynamically since we created an independent centre. Our goal is to increase the annual visitor number to 50,000 by 2016 at the Széchenyi Castle in Nagycenk. Dear fellow Member, Finally, a few words on the question of class trips. While I agree that there should not be a Hungarian child who does not once reach the Széchenyi Castle in Nagycenk, either from the mother country or from across borders - I myself was first on a class trip to the Széchenyi Castle in Nagycenk when I was a kid - while the state does not yet undertake the task of organising class trips in the same way that we did in the case of class trips across the border, but in any case we consider it important that Nagycenk and of course Eszterháza be a national pilgrimage place. He also knows that in 2010, we adopted a parliamentary resolution in which all Hungarians studying in public education should, at least once with the support of the Hungarian state, reach the Hungarian residential areas of neighbouring countries and as many Hungarian students from abroad can reach Hungary through exchanges. By the way, a lot of people have been on excursions. In 2014, 33,604 students could participate in programmes in different regions of the Carpathian Basin, 23 480 seventh grade students on study trips, 5046 vocational school students and 5078 high school students under the cooperation program. We would like more visitors to visit Nagycenk in the future. We also ask the Member for his further assistance and support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Lajos Korózs, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Friends! March 1st is the poor people's black day. This is a Sunday when the Fidesz government abolished the financial benefits that have helped nearly 1 million people so far. As of March 1, regular social assistance will cease, housing support will cease, debt management aid will cease, public health care from equity, care premiums from equity will cease, and municipal aid will cease. Let us look specifically at how many people are affected by the loss of forms of service, the form of cash supply. Regular social assistance has been provided to 38,000 people in the last year. This is the kind of care that is intended to provide financial assistance to people of active age in disadvantaged labour markets. The housing support - hold on - affected 500,000 families. And if I may say so, I treated him as my baby, because in 2004 the Socialist Government introduced this form of support. The debt management service affected 10,000 households, but it was their only way out of the debt spiral. Here are two forms of equitable supply. In the last year, 35,000 people were affected by public health services. This has helped, among other things, pensioners who have been excluded from normative care because of the aid threshold that has not changed for years. The following form of care is a care fee for equity. Nearly 10,000 people received this form of supply. Even if a local government can - since they say that these forms of cash supply will continue to live as municipal aid; that is not true - so if a settlement can accidentally grant some kind of aid, it is highly unlikely that it will be able to present these grants at this amount. The local government aid, which was created in the past from the merger of three aids, should hold on to it: in 800 thousand cases, it has provided 350,000 families in the last year, only in the last year. It seems to me, repeating myself, that over a million people are being thrown into the ditch. In my opinion, this model, this model in Orbán, has given half of society in the last five years virtually nothing but living below the minimum living standards. A cynical remark from the former Secretary of State the other day, he said that they could present decent poverty to people employed in community service. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. I don't understand. I can't understand it because you want to keep people in poverty for a long time, and you're willing to use the municipalities to do so in order to do so after the reform of the aid system, you're going to impose tasks that you're guaranteed to be unable to meet. If you look at it - I also drew attention to it in the budget debate - this year's budget was set up only on this cash supply section with a grant of nearly HUF 100 billion, more than HUF 99 billion, and this section now has 25 billion set up, and it is said that I do not know how many HUF 30 billion can be validated by the municipal authorities through a tender. But you still miss more than 40 billion forints! So here's a $40 billion hole that's supposed to be filled by municipal authorities. [[13.30]] Sorry, it is a rather poor response, as the Secretary of State for Finance said here in the budget debate, that there is a business tax and that they should collect as much of it as they can generate social transfers. I beg you, the business tax is not to pump money into the social care system, it is to enable the settlement to develop! Not to mention that settlements that can nevertheless provide social support to the people living there will start an internal migration, an internal migration, because a large part of the poor people will migrate in this direction. The aim of the socialists is to make Hungary better even from the opposition. An example of this is the case in the case of the 13th century. district, example Szeged, example Zugló, and I can even mention Tiszaújváros. I think we should go this way. It is no coincidence that last week we tabled a constitutional amendment, more precisely a fundamental amendment, partly to retire men with 40 years of service, with eligibility time, and to develop early retirement and early retirement. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-02-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If I wanted to, I'd have a pair of numbers to disprove what you said, Your Honour. After all, if we look at how these people's budget has changed, the support for people with a difficult fate, if we add up the social register and the start-up fund, which is used to make these people better, we can see that the budget money for these people will increase from 380 billion to 411 billion forints. So the budget will spend 30-35 billion forints more on helping those in need than it spent the previous year. We hope that they too will see the way out of poverty. Keeping people in poverty was in whose interest or who did it, honourable Member? Under your governance, he became 250,000 more unemployed in Hungary, and I think it is obvious who did more to make more poor people in Hungary. After all, the 250,000 people who lost their jobs as a result of your government were certainly more at risk of poverty if you didn't become one than in the last few years, when, as you know, you are now working with 400,000 more people than four and a half years ago. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] With regard to the restructuring of aid, the various items, the objectives that you have listed here and dropped out of your hands individually, are all incorporated into the objectives eligible for municipal aid. You know very well that the central budget will continue to pay certain benefits without any self-reliance from the local government, so the municipalities do not need to add 10, 20 or 30 percent to this. The state pays 100 percent, without the municipal add-on, the allowance to replace employment, the health and child care allowance, a part of which was previously called regular social assistance, the benefit of the elderly, the basic, increased and priority care premium. So they are now paid by the state at 100% and do not have to contribute to the municipalities. In terms of subjective and normative public health care, it also walks in full measure, automatically through the walking system. In addition, district offices shall deal with the administration of an official certificate issued for the purpose of access to health services. Therefore, these are all aids which the municipalities do not need to add to so far. In addition, not only the local business tax or other tax revenues mentioned by you serve as a source for the municipalities, but we said that in the municipalities whose tax capacity is not adequate to manage these potentially increasing expenses, there is 30 billion HUF plus in the budget, which has not yet been included. Now 30 billion more will be allocated to municipalities on a pro rata basis, each month, so that these subsidies can be paid locally. If even this would be insufficient for a local government, if even the self-depreciation, the free tax right and the HUF 30 billion were not enough, there would be an additional HUF 5 billion available, and the Ministry of the Interior will decide with NGM to support the self-absorbed municipalities. And if, somewhere, the payment of social aid puts the municipality's entire management in a difficult situation, it could ask for additional aid from this source and then ask for additional aid. So I can confirm to you that there is more resources available to help those in need. Like I said, about 380 billion, it was a little below last year, and now 411 billion forints. As for the socialists' policy of opposition and government, you said that they already want to help it from opposition. However, I would like to offer you the speech of Zsuzsa Ferge, who could not be accused of bias on the right, at a conference a few weeks ago, to issue your certificate on the government side. He said that in 2008, when the crisis came on throughout Europe, the then socialist government, the Gyurcsány government, was the only government in Europe that didn't deal with the losers of the crisis, which didn't offer extra support to the unemployed or those in need, an extra programme that could have helped them. Only the socialist government at the time, of which you, as Secretary of State, President of the Commission, supported various positions, well, that was the only government in Europe that didn't deal with the losers of the crisis. Instead, what did you do? Instead, he took the 13th month's pension, took the 13th month's wage, wanted to introduce the property tax, introduced what the referendum then abolished, hospital daily allowance, visit fee and tuition fees, continued to privatise instead of reducing the rent, and it could be added to what they were trying to make the situation of people with wages and salaries difficult. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, the Government should apologise. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-02-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You have now suddenly remembered that there are millions of people in this country who have not been given anything in the past and have even taken what they had from them. Families trying to get along fairly have not been given what Fidesz deserves in years. From the government that now saw his popularity fall suddenly, he started talking about small-time workers. The people you've been dealing with for practically years, against whom you've been working. Because apparently, while the government of workers' poverty, which means you're talking about working families, you're thinking about yourself the most. How they could get out of the chaos they helped themselves to - but unfortunately, the whole country went with you. One thing's for sure: apart from being corrupt, you've made two mistakes. One is that Fidesz doesn't have and never had a job creation program. And the other is that you have taken the wages down without mercy, so that everyone can see now that the Orbán government is the government of labor poverty. It is also a fact that Hungarians have been working for deeply depressed wages in this country for years. Forty percent of EU wages. While prices are at 75% of EU prices. Don't let anyone think it's legal. It's just the Fidesz law. It's what you did. Because the government that takes 500 billion forints a year from people who work in shops, kindergartens, nursery schools, hospitals, buses, offices, is the government of labor poverty. Because while you were shortening this 90 percent by never getting over these people, you directly increased the minimum wage tax. He who is poor is worth so much, said John Lazarus. Apparently, that's your philosophy, too. That's what the 2.5 million people who were deprived of thousands, tens of thousands of forints a month are worth to you. The employee's poverty government has added to the problem and has introduced taxes: VAT increase, telephone tax increase, yellow check increase. Maybe there'll be smoke money here, said a nice citizen to me, and you're right. Because what have you given these Hungarian people who carry this country on their backs? What did you give the silent majority? That they could lose their jobs at any time, that they had no rights vis-à-vis their employer, and that if that happens, they would lose their jobs, then there would be no more. That's one of the ones they got. In the Labour Code, you have codified this. The other one they got was extremely low wages. At present, 2.2 million people in this country are earning a minimum living. It's more than half of the taxpayers. Two thirds of taxpayers earn under average wage. The public sector last saw a wage increase in 2008. But entrepreneurs can't hope for much better, small entrepreneurs, because two thirds of their income is taxed on a whim. How can a business develop in this country, Mr. Secretary? Dear Fidesz-KDNP, The working people, the hardworking families, expect an apology from this government in the first place. An apology for humiliating salaries, vain struggle, hopelessness. That's because they don't go from one to two even though they work at their best from dawn to night. They don't understand how it's possible that there's a government that's been doing what you've been doing for years, seeing it out on the billboards, that's their loss. It's your recipe, that's what they did to these people! Apologize! [[13.40]] You have to apologize to these people, because the government, which means you have sold employees' rights, pushed down wages, and at the same time built the world of the Garanche and the Butchers on the back of this miserable, stolen country. The picture of the Prime Minister of Hungary posing in the pig colony next to the Low Slúst box burned to a country, my fellow Members, while he was posing with his friends who had been squandered out of public money. Shame on you! The rule of government and the rule of their Rasputin has triggered the contempt of a country. Here's Árpád Habony, the most fancy unemployed in this country, giving you and Gucci advice to help hardworking families? ! Who believes you now? I don't believe you. If, tomorrow, Viktor Orbán stands up and fires the 99 Deputy State Secretary, stops the stadium constructions, cancels the wasteful, no-where-leading investment in Paks that betrays the country, then perhaps we can accept that as an initial apology. Because there's money in this country, Mr. Secretary, but you don't give it where it belongs. Every year, we have shown in black white that 450 000 jobs can be created without having to tax a penny more and without having to take a penny of credit. Because one thing is clear: the LMP wants higher wages and real job creation; in this country, wages for teachers, nurses and the public sector should be increased; hardworking families also deserve family allowances and family tax incentives until the age of 24. We're gonna put down these billings, and you're gonna have to do one thing: vote for it. Find out what they think and what they're doing. Find out if they really want to help families or not. That's just bullshit.
u2015-03-02-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Czomba wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-02-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you for this very important topic, which was said in interpellation a few days ago, but brought it here again. I know very well that you are less disturbed by the facts, but allow me to ask you why the government should apologize. Because you've increased your employment from 3.7 million to 4.2 million in four and a half years? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Should we apologize for bringing unemployment back from 12 percent to 7.1 percent? We should apologize because for young people aged 15-24 [[Dr. András Schiffer: For what wages?]] the 28 percent unemployment rate is 17.9 percent? [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] We should apologize, honourable Member, because while the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage - which I gave you - was 70 percent three years ago, is 77 percent now? [[Dr. András Schiffer: How many economic refugees are there?]] A lot of people are asking us to take the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage to 80% or more. This is the direction we've been going in the last two years, three years, four years. And you're saying that your employees are putting up poverty and all kinds of predators. I would like to point out that, at the moment, the minimum wage in the Czech Republic is lower than in Hungary. Think about why this is happening. The Hungarian minimum wage is a completely fair minimum wage compared to the EU average, the Poles, Czechs, Romanians, Slovaks, so where we are in competition. You know, today there are about 250,000 people working on minimum wages in Hungary, 500,000 working on a guaranteed minimum wage, and all other people earn income above average or average. So when you claim that the Hungarian Government has done nothing, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since 2010, the minimum wage has increased by 43 hundreds in gross terms, with a net increase of 10.7 percent. This means that wages have increased more than GDP. So then questioning whether it is important for the Hungarian government to increase wages, I think, at least doubt [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's see.]] It is clearly included in these figures. No job creation - look at the latest KSH statistics! You will see from it, Madam honourable Member, that on a year-to-year basis the number of employees has increased by 142 thousand. In this context, public work has increased by about 10,000, and migration has increased by about 10,000. Take the two numbers out of each other. So our claim is that, over the past year, the number of jobs in the competitive sector has increased by more than 100,000 in the primary labour market. And here's the thing. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. András Schiffer intervene.]] : We can talk about all kinds of things here, without GDP growth, without economic growth, there is no real job creation. This is why the Hungarian government has put it on its flag as a priority to keep economic growth ahead of us from every aspect, in order to promote employment growth in the competitive sphere. The bigger problem is that there are areas or regions of the country where we are talking about 3-4 percent unemployment. Every day a letter comes to me where the employer there asks us to try to import labour there, because there is a very big problem. So the problem in certain regions of the country is basically that they cannot find workers' hands, while unemployment is high on the other side and on the East Hungarian region. Our job in the next period is to pursue a policy of business, economic policy, to try to bring jobs to where, by the way, there are a lot of workers' hands available. We will continue this process in the next period, and if anyone has an apology here, I think it is not the Hungarian government. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about economic emigration?]]
u2015-03-02-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, Head of Group, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2015-03-02-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A week ago [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On Monday, the Buda-Cash case broke out in Hungarian public, the second socialist broker scandal. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] We all remember the first socialist broker scandal, my fellow Members, that was the Key Price case, the Key Price case that the socialists found so embarrassing that, in 2004, even a legislative amendment was made to remove the President of Financial Supervision of Károly Szász, who exposed the first socialist broker scandal. Today, we can all see very well that this was obviously done so that the brokers could continue to roam. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, not only was Károly Szász removed from his place in 2004 by an amendment to the law, but a law amending the 2001 Capital Markets Act, which was in force until then, in order to ensure the free exploitation of brokers, which said that the supervision had to carry out a comprehensive on-the-spot inspection of all investment firms, managers and, in practice, brokers at least every two years, according to an investigation plan drawn up by Károly Szász. You, ladies and gentlemen, when, after the first socialist broker scandal, Károly Szász, president of financial supervision, was fired, you abolished the obligation to control the two-year period, thus establishing the legal basis for the free exploitation of brokers. Ladies and gentlemen, After that, in 2008-2009 - of course, you were partly embarrassed by the pressure of international financial institutions - another amendment was adopted in 2009, in which, however, a two-year obligation was not returned, as it was before the Kulcsar case in Hungary, but a five-year obligation was imposed by the law. It was also in 2009 that the Bajnai government had a great deal of confidence in brokers, especially brokers related to Buda-Cash, since of the leaders of Buda-Cash, the Bajnai government had appointed a government commissioner, a minister's chief of staff, or even the CEO of a state company. Therefore, we may not consider it a coincidence that in 2010 - even after the elections, but before the formation of the new government - financial supervision at that time suddenly felt urgent to conduct the mandatory five-year inquiry at Buda-Cash. On-the-spot checks were carried out between May 10 and May 28, 2010, an on-the-spot check which would have been the only way to expose the abuses and fraud that had already taken place at Buda-Cash. However, at this on-the-spot inspection, the inspectors at the time found nothing and left a protocol to the new government, which seemed to indicate that everything was fine in the Buda-Cash area. [[13.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the leaders of Buda-Cash could expect that the next on-site inspection would take place only after a next parliamentary election. And perhaps it is no coincidence that the auditors of the Hungarian National Bank, when the new audit was carried out in February 2015, the entire Buda-Cash fraud failed on the first day. If you had acted differently in May 2010, if you hadn't passed laws that were mandatory only every five years, you might have managed to save tens of billions of customers. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, I think that it is the government's task - and the Fidesz faction strongly calls for it - to conduct the most rigorous investigation on one side at Buda-Cash. We're wondering where this hundred billion forints went. Where is the cash from Buda-Cash, we would like to ask you this, fellow Members. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: We are also curious about it!]] Who took him and where did he go; and, of course, we would also like to ask you what did you know about these frauds, and do you know where the Buda-Cash cash went from Buda-Cash? Because it is a hundred billion forints to be removed, honourable Members, I think that this is the real corruption. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: You should know!]] And let us add, ladies and gentlemen, that, in addition to the strictest scrutiny, we also expect it, and we expect it as strongly as possible, that, if necessary, the frequency of inspections should be strengthened. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Who believes you?]] Therefore, we ask the Government that if the Hungarian National Bank wishes to submit a bill allowing more stringent control in this area to the Parliament, it should be placed on the Parliament's table as soon as possible so that Members can decide on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond.
u2015-03-02-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Magyar Nemzeti Bank filed a complaint on the Buda-Cash brokerage company last Monday. The investigation is ongoing, the documents have been seized by the police. We believe that due to the thorough work of the police, those who committed this scoundrelry will soon be named. Those who took around HUF 100 billion from people through financial corporations and through the four banks involved. The activities of the socialists are very thoughtful, because when Fidesz handed over government in 2002, this legislation was still subject to two-year supervision in this law. During the 8 years of governance, there was a period when no period was provided for, so it could have been that these financial undertakings were not controlled by PSF at all. However, the problem is much greater if you look at the consequences [[Zoltán Lukács: The problem is much bigger than you think.]] How many people are affected by this in Hungary, as it affects about 150,000 people, 84 or more municipalities and thousands of businesses who have led their accounts with these banks. The government's first and most important task and responsibility is to help these people so that they don't get any worse. Help the affected people, who get their salaries, aids and benefits through these banks, so that they do not get into any more trouble than the socialist brokers have caused them. It is very important to help the municipalities to ensure the functioning of the municipalities concerned. Ensure the guarantee of the salaries of civil servants working in the municipalities, the payment of aid for those employed by the public. To this end, an inter-wallet working committee has been set up to investigate and have already taken decisions to make it up to people as soon as possible. A proposal has been made, in which 67 municipalities will receive some HUF 245 million as an extraordinary grant, so that the people concerned can receive their full contribution in February at the beginning of March. It is very important that pensions cannot be lost, can not be paid to a bank where people cannot have access, so the pension board has taken action. The affected people, families, workers will receive these benefits through the mail these days. But it is also important to know what is going on with the people and businesses who ran their accounts in the banks concerned. They're a lot of people, too, and they're involved. I would like to reassure them that the law provides them with compensation of 100 thousand euros, i.e. approximately 30 million forints. This will therefore affect individuals with an account in the bank or bank deposit, but it will also affect the legal persons, businesses, deposit companies and companies who have managed their accounts here. So they will receive compensation up to HUF 30 million under that law. However, this requires the Hungarian National Bank to suspend the operating license of the banks concerned and to initiate winding-up proceedings. Compensation may then take place within 20 working days. It is very important that the Deposit Protection Fund is also available to stakeholders. Here the amount of compensation can reach EUR 20,000, maximum HUF 6 million under the current law. As a government and partner, the Parliament will do its utmost to ensure that the injured people are not in more trouble and the amounts they cannot now obtain. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] They are able to obtain it as soon as possible under the law, and they will receive these funds. I apologize for talking longer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-03-02-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László László György Lukács, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Kiss, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz. On Tuesday, the following members applied for the speech before the agenda: Zoltán Lukács, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP; László Földi, KDNP; István Szávay, Jobbik; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Wednesday, Tibor Bana, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP.On Thursday, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2015-03-02-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that tomorrow at 2:00 a.m. President of the Republic will inaugurate the restored Kossuth monument in his former glorious place in front of the Parliament. The work of János Horvay was set up in the Kossuth Square in 1927 and was removed by the Rákosi system in 1952. On the occasion of the restoration, we invite this House, my fellow Members, to attend the ceremony. Let us witness together how the lasting one will regain his rightful place from the passover. Dear Parliament, We now decide to derogate from house rules. Last week's meeting of the House Committee reached a consensus on the initiation of a house derogation. The House Committee proposes that the Parliament departs from the provisions of the house rules on this day's sitting in such a way that Varga Simeon is a Bulgarian ethnic advocate before deciding on the agenda proposal for a maximum period of two minutes on the basis of the presentation of the Bulgarian spring-waiting tradition, so that no further comments can be made. [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. [[For signal:]] I would like to point out to Mr Bell that I can only speak in order after the vote and after the adoption of the agenda. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 153 votes to one, without abstention. Dear Parliament, I therefore give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, who wishes to address the title of the presentation of the Bulgarian spring-waiting tradition.
u2015-03-02-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you, according to the Bulgarians in Hungary, the 100-year-old Bulgarians' Association and the Bulgarian people's habit of living on my behalf, with martenica. According to our traditions, on 1 March, when the calendar spring comes, we use the double-colored thread. The red color keeps evil spirits away, brings white health and happiness. According to popular belief, we must wear martenits until we see the first stork or swallow. We tie it to the buds of a fruit tree or hide it under a stone. Martenica, tied to a tree, produces abundant fruit, and the hidden under a stone drives away evil and disease. We should never throw it away, because then we'll throw our luck away with him. Martenica is one of the most authentic Bulgarian traditions, the tradition dates back to the time of the Bulgarian state-founder Asparuh Khan. Its strong positive significance for centuries carries with it the good wishes of the coming spring to be healthy. Although the custom of martenica in Hungary is unknown, some elements of it can be found in Hungarian folk traditions. In particular, you can find many examples of the red color's troubleshooting function. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Freaks, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak before the agenda and for derogating from the provisions of the house rules. On behalf of my fellow speakers and myself, I trust your further support. I wish that the martenits set to protect your health, to keep away from all of you and diseases, and to bring a rich spring of success, a good harvest for Hungary and its citizens. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-02-24	Thank you for your good wishes, not only for this House, but also for the historic country. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we will decide on the motions for amending the agenda. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has proposed that three proposals should not be discussed or decided. Fidesz wants to change their order. First, we decide on the proposals of the MSZP. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that T/2329 on the amendment of certain administrative laws The Commission reports and the summary proposal, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on the legislative proposal, shall not be taken at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that T/3115 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the restructuring of the territorial administration system. The Commission reports and the summary proposal, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on the legislative proposal, shall not be taken at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that T/3019 on the amendment of certain legal acts The Commission reports and the summary proposal, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on the legislative proposal, shall not be taken at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that, on tomorrow's meeting, following the final vote on the draft law amending certain administrative laws, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote on the investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the amendment of certain related laws, be taken as item 4. Subsequently, item 5 of the agenda is the decision on the summation of the proposed amendment to the bill amending certain legal acts and the final vote. These motions are linked, so we decide on them with a decision. Anyone who agrees with this proposal should vote with a raise of hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I would like to inform you that the House Committee is the T/3410 on the survey of the population on the basis of a sample of personal, family and housing conditions in 2016 He declared the draft law No. No. 1 as a item on the agenda of nationality. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda, together with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I declare that today's personal proposal has not been initiated by the factions, so we do not have to decide on this. And before we move on to interpellations, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Attila Harangozó, who applied in order of business.
u2015-03-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The proposals before the Parliament show that Fidesz, losing the two-thirds majority, is preparing to change two-thirds of the laws with simple, half majority decisions. On Friday, 27 February, according to the proposed amendments adopted at the Legislative Committee, Fidesz intends to change the two-thirds clause of the individual laws on administrative and individual legal matters, in the latter case also Chapter 17 of the Parliamentary Act, which also regulates the basic functioning of Parliament, so the proposal that you have tabled here is also contrary to the Basic Law. In order to clarify the situation, we would like to initiate the immediate convening of the House Committee and the opinion of the Vice-President responsible for the legislative process and of the House's leadership on this matter before this vote can take place. Thank you very much. [[14.10]]
u2015-03-02-26	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not consider it to be a point of order that we are initiating a debate on. This is what I propose: on the one hand, it is indeed necessary to clarify these at a House Committee meeting, and at the end of the agendas I will obviously take steps to ensure that the House Committee meeting takes place. We will inform the House about this later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're moving to interpellation negotiations for 120 minutes. It's 2:10. Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. Mr Zoltán Lukács has the floor.
u2015-03-02-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, I and my fellow Members have repeatedly drawn attention to the situation in terms of early retirement, the untenable situation, and we have drawn attention to the need to do so. We have received several promises from you - not just us, but also trade unions and others, for example - that instead of providing early retirement benefits, you will put in place a new system. This was said several times, time was stalled several times, and then it came to an end that it turned out to be a false cover for everyone who was interested in it, because in December of the previous year the final deadline expired, and what happened was that the possibility of early retirement was out of the system. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The termination of this legal institution seems to have been more important to the government than the possibility of retaining the early retirement of the most difficult, most dangerous workers. Ladies and Gentlemen, A journalist put it this way in an article that summarized the fact that the person who wears off can disappear, and indeed is, it seems to you that this is your opinion of these people. They eliminated this opportunity by collecting 13 percent of the additional contributions in the amount of 30 billion, which would have provided cover. You say that hardworking people must be given the opportunity. That's what your prime minister said. To whom this applies, they worked the hardest, radiating jobs, extreme cold, extreme hot jobs, mines and all places where they were exposed to extreme health damage. You have now decided that these people do not need such a pension, you have decided to give up these people. I'm asking you when there's gonna be a real step in these cases. What will happen to the 30 billion extra contributions paid? When will the affected be compensated, nearly 70,000 people? And what kind of future are you going to have for the people who do the most dangerous and hardest work? Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-28	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Sándor Czomba responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow us to hit some piles here at the beginning. First of all, those who have been entitled to early retirement until 31 December 2014 will not lose their entitlement in any way. We're talking about a lot of people. It's an important element. Secondly, you have noticed, you have noticed, as you have tried to do something with this system during your administration, because the last time there was a comprehensive review in 1997, there has been virtually nothing since then. You know, the thing is, there were over 800 jobs in the previous system, 70 percent of which were for state-owned companies: bus drivers, drivers and the rest. Perhaps you do not question that there have been very serious maladministration in the system, because there have also been jobs that are not necessarily there, and there have been those out there which, if necessary, are more harmful to people's health. So my claim is that this system, which has lived before, has not been sustainable in the long term either from a budgetary or a labour market point of view. It was not sustainable from a budgetary point of view, because the good thing you said was that employers paid 13 per cent extra contributions, of which 17-18 billion forints - not 30 per cent as you said - came in, and they paid approximately 16 billion per year, so simply put it: 40 000 people were paid and 11 000 people were paid, but if we had left this system this way, where was the 160,000 people who could have maintained this system when 40,000 people retired with age allowances? So I think the basic situation is that the employer must ensure healthy working conditions. Undoubtedly, there will never be such a perfect condition, there will always be jobs when you have to expect to wear out sooner. But the solution is not to release him five years, six years, seven years, eight years earlier, because the next question is whether the pension system can be maintained in this system, whether it is sustainable from an employment policy point of view that the system in which people are released at 57 years of age and are practically young people without qualifications, or that there is no access to the labour market for demographic reasons. That means tension that's out of control. That's why you had to touch it. However, he is right - if we do not know the perfect solution - that we need to do something. We promised to start meaningful negotiations with employers, employees' representatives. I'd like to point out that this has happened. We've been through two rounds. We are looking at the possibility that, in cases where there is no possibility of operating a prior age discount, what discount can be used to address this problem. I don't want to give you any tips, but there has been a lot of talk in recent conversations; it may be that we give you a working time discount, which was an example before, if the driver is unable to work for health reasons, we take him off the locomotive and try to give him an opportunity in other jobs within the MÁV. So we agree that something must be done, but the system of early retirement in this form or in the form that used to be, could not be maintained. But once again, we are opening substantive negotiations with the most competent in this regard, and I hope that, within a few months, we will be able to put an agreement or a solution on the table of Parliament that is a satisfactory solution for everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-31	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You say that the system is unsustainable and that there have been maladministration. I don't think the solution to that is to lead the whole thing out and not replace it with anything, unlike promises. You're saying you have to do something. For a long, long time now, it has always been said that the new system will be introduced in December. They didn't bring not only the new system, they didn't bring anything. These people are doing very, very hard work, and once again, dusty jobs, broadcasting jobs, underground, high, chemical, transport workers, and these people have nothing. You may have considered that the system wasn't perfect, I won't argue with that, but that instead of the non-perfect system, we're not doing anything, I think it's not a solution. Therefore, if you had at least outlined a plan here at some point, I could accept your answer, but that these people have been abandoned, so I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 44, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will the government substantially reduce public debt? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-03-02-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the time when Fidesz won the election in 2010, the fight against sovereign debt and the reduction of public debt were identified as a very important objective. In order for the government to meet this commitment, it has complied with all the EU and IMF dictatorships, although your boss, Mihály Varga, has repeatedly said that we do not agree with the European Union, but we do fulfil all his wishes. These wishes were about restraint. [[14.20]] If we look at the figures at that time, where the public debt stood at the end of the first quarter of 2010 and where it stood at the end of the second quarter of 2014, we can basically see that public debt has increased despite all their efforts, despite the fact that the public has been hit by continuous austerity measures by the government. This is how the Hungarian population pays 27 percent of the world record VAT and a number of other taxes that are virtually unknown within the European Union. It is also very important to see that, in order to cut the public debt, you have by force nationalised the total savings of 3 million private pension fund members. The Hungarian budget has swept 3,000 billion forints, and this amount has been spent, spent by the Fidesz government over the past four years, this money is practically gone. Well, that's how you protected pensions. Indeed, during the period of the socialists, it was characteristic of the fact that the country's external debt had indeed increased during that period, they had indeed indebted the country, and now it has changed so much that the Fidesz government has not increased external debt, but has nationalised the people's savings by force and later lived up to it. There's nothing left of 3000 billion forints of private pension fund money today! It is also worth seeing what tricks the government is using, how it uses hundreds of tricks to reduce and manipulate sovereign debt data. The single treasury account, from which the government pays the current payments, is regularly, now even last year and this year, down to the last days of the year in order to enable the government to cosmetics the data on public debt in this way. If we look at the trend, what do we see? The Government Debt Management Center plans to sell sovereign debt in the first quarter by more than HUF 500 billion than Hungary has in the first quarter. Government debt will continue to grow again this year, demonstrable and visible. What's your answer to that, Mr. Secretary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-02-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who will respond to the interpellation.
u2015-03-02-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Perhaps in 2010 we agree on the starting point. Indeed, the country was very much indebted, but if we compare the figures at the time of the change of government in 2010 with the figures at the time of the change of government in 2002, then it is even more shocking, as we can see that the government debt exceeded just 50 percent of GDP at the time of the change of government in May 2002. When the socialists returned government to Fidesz, the government debt was above 80 percent in terms of GDP. That's a 30% increase. If we break this down for years, over the eight years, socialist governments have increased public debt by almost 4 percent each year. The government of national cooperation has clearly stated in its government programme that it is necessary to halt the growth of public debt and to start reducing it. I believe that this commitment by the government has been successful; it has been successful despite your claim and your interpellation. This is true because in 2013 the government debt is 77,3 per cent, but it is still below 80 per cent, and it is true that 2014 figures are exactly the same as per cent, but this does not mean an increase. True, the rate of decline has stopped at a percentage. However, if we calculate the debt at the rate of 2013 at the end of 2014, we can see that in 2014 the debt would be reduced by almost 2 percentage points. I do not consider your comments on the private pension fund to be elegant, since you supported the government's actions at the time. They supported it, and it was right, because not only did you support it, but the European Union itself said that this private pension fund scheme was a mistake, and Hungary was followed in this step by several countries in Europe. Now, as a opposition politician, it's good for you to tell me how bad it is, and you're gonna tell me, not to mention the facts, of course. I think that the Hungarian economy, the whole country, has very serious results in terms of macro numbers. In 2014 we were the first country of the European Union in the field of budget deficit cutting, economic growth. We were able to do all this without an increase in public debt, so the country did not grow out of debt. People's consumption increased, retail sales increased, all without an increase in public debt. I do not think it is a bad thing that Hungarians place their investments in Hungarian government bonds. They trust their own country, they trust their own government, that this forint they give as a savings is going to pay back. So it shows the image of a stable, reliable government that now more than HUF 2200 billion is in Hungarian government bonds in the hands of Hungarian people. But in the meantime, the country's foreign exchange exposure has also decreased, as the country's foreign currency debt has been significantly reduced. I think that the government is on the right track and that is recognised by international analysts, the European Union. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We ask that the opposition parties, Jobbik, acknowledge the government's achievements in the economy. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-02-36	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-37	I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply, Mr President, because the Secretary of State is slipping me. Jobbik did not support the government squandering people's private pension savings, Jobbik supported by its vote that private companies should not put people's savings on the stock market and then lose people, but, on the contrary, the State should retain private pension funds with responsibility. But you spent it. Let's be honest, Mr. Secretary, this is the case in black and white. You must also see that what you are saying about economic growth is indeed GDP growth, but if you look at it, Mr State Secretary, GDP has grown in Hungary for more than 20 years since the change of regime. But back then, this country was building hospitals, this country was building schools, and your government is shutting down these schools because there aren't enough kids and liquidating hospitals because there's not enough money. [[Uproar, noise in the pro-government benches.]] It's their certificate! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-02-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted 102 yeses, 31 votes against, with two abstentions, the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: what has it cost taxpayers so far and how much more public money can be consumed by the establishment of the national banking system? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-03-02-39	Dear Secretary of State, While in recent years we have been constantly hearing that banks are being accounted for, the process of completely transforming the banking sector has started in the background. Following last year's parliamentary elections, it was decided at the highest level that the proportion of Hungarian ownership in the domestic banking system should be higher than 50 percent, even 70 percent. We see the government spending its taxpayers' money on the purchase of commercial banks, the recapitalisation of public financial institutions and government measures that consume as much as hundreds of billions, such as the creation of a bad state bank. The first of all Hungarian banks was the Hungarian Commercial Bank, which had lost HUF 433 billion in four years. According to press reports, the expected loss relief of MKB could cost an additional HUF 75-200 billion. The government recently announced the state purchase of well-functioning Budapest Bank. For the financial institution estimated by experts at $400 million, the Hungarian State would pay almost twice the market price, about $700 million. [[14.30]] We are now at the point where public financial institutions have a credit line of over 1000 billion a year. The fulfilment of the related public payment obligations, such as guarantees, capital increases, grants and loan guarantee transactions, has already reported HUF 50-80 billion to the central budget in previous years, and this may continue to increase in the future. Only the State Eximbank has consumed 43 billion forints in the last two years. It was recently announced that at 33 years of age, the former head of department of the V. district, which is loud from real estate scandals, can drive the newly founded state MARK Zrt. for more than HUF 5 million a month, through which the central bank will buy for HUF 300 billion of public money bankrupt loans, half-finished malls, loss-making hotels; as they say, for the purpose of cleaning bank balance sheets. According to experts, the development of the national banking system has cost taxpayers 500-600 billion forints, and according to experts, only MKB can absorb more than 100 billion forints of public money up to this year, i.e. some 150-200 thousand forints per household. Dear Secretary of State, Are these numbers true? 500-600 billion forints? And how much more public money can the establishment of a national banking system consume? Who is responsible for the hundreds of billions unduly paid to banks or to be paid in the near future? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-02-40	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-41	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm starting Hungary a little early. In 2008, when the country basically went bankrupt, the Hungarian bond, the bond issued by Hungary, was insolvent, no one recorded the bond issued by Hungary, and the government could not involve external funds, the then Gyurcsány government, for the financing of the state. If the IMF has not signed a contract with the then government, essentially an unconditional surrender and the IMF has handed over the country to the IMF. But there is another interesting fact that around 2009, when the crisis was the biggest in the world, and so in Hungary, the banks operating in Hungary were the most profitable in the world and produced extra profit during the crisis. How could this happen? Do you want to bring these times back to Hungary when you ask the government to draw up a strategy to develop a new financial and banking system? The government is clearly and consistently implementing its determined idea, the essence of which is to create a healthy, functioning commercial banking system that finances the Hungarian economy, businesses, local governments, people and the Hungarian state. We have been very, very far away from this in recent years, because while the problem of foreign exchange lenders, which was the largest in Europe, was of the highest standard, we could not eliminate it, we could not talk about the need to develop a new banking system in Hungary. But now we are past that, and we have managed to solve it, and we have also managed to ensure that the Hungarian economy is financed in the transitional period. This is thanks to the Hungarian National Bank, because the Hungarian National Bank solved this issue instead of the non-functioning commercial banks that did not exercise lending. The time has come for us to return to a normal, healthy economic solution, and that is to create a good commercial banking system in Hungary. This also requires that the government, the state, take extraordinary measures in an exceptional situation. That's why he buys, so he helps finance commercial banks and acquires property. This property is acquired for a temporary period by the government and is not intended for the State to take up banking activities instead of commercial banks. When these banks operate in a healthy way again, finance and gain profits, and profit, the State will continue to sell its share in the market. So this investment, this amount we are paying now, it is not spent money, it is the property of the Hungarian state, and the Hungarian government considers it an investment, in order to ensure that a well-functioning banking system is needed in a well-functioning country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and These steps we are taking towards the banking system are therefore necessary, and it is also important that this 1000 billion, carried by the banking system for companies that do not fulfil corporate loans, is also settled, and we simply exempt the banking system from this, so that they can start a new life, carry out new financing, the fundamental aim of which must be that the Hungarian economy continues to grow. That's why the government took these measures. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-42	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and ask the congresswoman if she will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-03-02-43	I do not accept the answer, but I would like to point out that the Secretary of State has forgotten to answer my question. I would like to underline that the measures so far are hardly in the interest of taxpayers, and that, in practice, by taking over bad loans from the state, the socialisation of bank losses is taking place, while profits will continue to be privatised in the future. In addition, it has recently become known that state-owned banks and parts of property will be privately owned by the government within three years, so that the bank shares, which have been cleaned out of taxpayers' money, will probably become the property of close-to-money financiers Fidesz in the future and will be enriched. From this, we believe, the Hungarian people do not ask.
u2015-03-02-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, and I ask the Honourable Parliament whether she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tuzson and György Balla, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: "Does the government act against green-collar crime? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Répássy Róbert, on behalf of Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There are criminal circles in the country and around the world that are disguised as green organisations, but they are actually specialised in criminal activities, and these crimes consist of looking at a large enterprise, some large investment, and launching procedures against these investments for various tricks, perceived or real environmental reasons, and consequently preventing or delaying the operation of these investments. In order to withdraw the procedures initiated later, certain sponsorship, support - in Hungarian: bribes - will be accepted or requested from different businesses. Unfortunately, this is a criminal practice known worldwide, also throughout Europe. In 2009, for example, a gentleman named Lubomír Studnička in the Czech Republic operated a similar group of criminals, which prevented or delayed the creation, establishment of an Elba Bridge and the establishment of a highway. At the same time, one example in the Czech Republic, Hyundai, initiated an investment in 2006, wanted to implement it, and similar criminal groups, by the same means, prevented it from being able to conduct this investment in a manner and manner, and asked for financial support for the investment. For example, there are examples in the UK. In such a case, a sentence of 4 to 11 years has been granted to those involved. Unfortunately, such cases also occur in Hungary. You know, Ferenc Zsák, a member of the Tiszánföldi Névédők Society, and the head of the company who requested HUF 200 million in support of Audi's 2011 investment in order not to prevent the investment from being carried out or to delay it any longer. [[14.40]] The Audi also agreed to support the organisation that wanted to prevent this investment in such a way, but later it recorded and filed a complaint against the appropriate gentleman, who then went to pre-emption for a while. In Hungary, therefore, this green crime, which must be combated, is also the reason why I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether the government is taking action against green crime and whether the Hungarian government intends to do something to prevent green criminals from backing up investments that are important for Hungary and accepting bribes or extorting them from various companies, thus preventing these investments from being carried out in accordance with its rules and methods, damaging Hungarian citizens and destroying the prestige of the nature-defence profession. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2015-03-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out that this is an ongoing prosecution, so, of course, the government and the Ministry of Justice do not comment on the specific case. The phenomenon you call green-collar crime is used only in the context of criminals who, for profit or gain, illegally burden our environment or exploit the institutional and tool system of environmental protection for their own purposes. The government has already done a lot to prevent this form of crime, but if it does, there is a wide range of criminal offences available to law enforcement. One of the most important aspects of the Code of Penalty was to provide an appropriate tool for law enforcement in the fight against new forms of crime. Action against corruption is also highlighted in the legislation. The facts of corruption crimes have been created as a material expression of this focus in criminal law. The Btk. 290 and 291. § 2 of the Interpellation provides for appropriate arrangements for cases referred to in the example of interpellation. I must draw attention to the fact that in the event that someone pays the perpetrator to withdraw the proceedings initiated, they are both responsible for bribery under Hungarian law. The higher interests of the health and well-being of Hungarian people and of life harmonizing with nature cannot be the subject of a deal. Therefore, the law can punish criminals you call green collars with imprisonment of up to ten years. However, bribery is a hard-to-discover crime, but examples of interpellation give us the certainty that these cases may be revealed, and if the investigating authorities then work well, quickly and effectively detect and record the evidence in a competent manner, then it can be said that the government and government-led police will do their best to give justice the information that could lead to strict accountability of such criminals. In my view, it is also important to apply the criminal code consistently to the perpetrators of such crimes because they question the belief in honest people who, without any underlying interests, really devote their lives to protecting our environmental values, or destroy confidence in civil society organisations that are particularly active without the hope of profit, in order to resolve issues affecting civil society. So, honourable Member, without, once again, commenting on the specific case, the criminal code facts proposed by the government, the solutions to the criminal code, as can be seen in the specific case, give the courts the opportunity to counter this crime you call a green collar. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-49	Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I consider it particularly important that any crime is raised in Hungary and that whatever crime there is, we should act against it, and that government action should also be decisive. In particular, when it comes to crimes that affect a wide range of society, they can affect large-scale investment in job creation and can therefore have a serious impact on the whole national economy. On this basis, I thank you very much for your reply and I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Withdrawal of Billionaires from the Social Service." Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2015-03-02-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Last year's amendment of the social law further deepened the social crisis that already characterizes your governance. The amendment of the law is, in effect, fully transferring local legislation on social benefits to municipalities and, worst of all, financing it. Instead of these benefits, municipal aid and exceptional municipal aid will be introduced. The social law requires that municipalities are obliged to provide exceptional municipal support to persons in an emergency situation which endangers subsistence and to persons with periodic or permanent subsistence problems. In addition to this aid, they are obliged to grant municipal aid. The question is, how do they do that? In particular, it will be difficult for municipalities who are unable to provide this support without their own faults, but at the same time put in an impossible position those municipalities that currently maintain a significant social care system, such as a large part of the Budapest municipalities. It is easy to see whether local social benefits are being carved down by the municipality or whether revenues should be increased, with the government's intention to introduce or increase local taxes. It is therefore easy to see that it is the rural people and the municipalities who pay the price of your budget. Lajos Korózs has already said that regular social assistance, debt management services, housing support, equity public health care, equity care and municipal aid will cease. These grants will cease to exist. Compared to this, this support is coming in, which you call extraordinary municipal aid or municipal aid, for which either there will be money or there will be no money. I think this exercise is cynical. It's cynical because the burden of your bad governance is passed on to the population and passed on to the municipality. Which is why I'm asking you when the anti-poor measures will finally be completed. When will local authorities receive from the central budget the funds that have been withdrawn from the social security system? Do you not feel cynical that billions of people are being withdrawn from the social care system again and that they are taking the blame with the municipal authorities? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-02-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-53	Thank you very much. First of all, it is important to clarify the objective of bringing this amendment to Parliament, which has entered into force from 1 March, now Sunday. The purpose of this was to ensure that those who really need it would surely receive the aid they need, whether from the state - in the case of half a dozen benefits - or from the local government - in the case of several benefits, but those who have abused these subsidies should not have access to it. You know this case, no one should go with Mercedes to get help, because it's obviously taking support from people in need, and they could get more if the abusers didn't hire them. From March 1st, you have a much less chance of doing that. The municipal authorities shall pay the aid which is the so-called expenditure compensatory aid, for which the person in need needs to be better informed. There, the local government is better aware of the local conditions, and it is better to see whether that person really needs these forms of support - which you listed, all of which are integrated into the municipal aid - so he needs it, his life situation or not. And the most important thing is that we certainly try to encourage everyone to work. [[14.50]] That is why we also consider the social benefit system, the part of social support, the money spent on Start work, the public work programme, because if someone goes from unemployment, the world of aid, poverty, poverty, hopelessness, to public work, the opportunity to live on more income and, in the long run, to have an even better income situation than before. The government doesn't save money on this. You know very well, Mr President, that instead of an aided person, a start-up worker means several times as much expenditure for the budget, but this is a good expense, a good multiplication, because there is already a perspective in this. Thus, in this whole area, which you have mentioned here, as I have already said before the agenda, the level of budget lines has changed positively. The amount so far, slightly below HUF 383 billion, is now HUF 411 billion, and we are spending 30-35 billion more on people in difficulty than we spent last year, and we can report this to the government's good economic policy and increasing revenue, which is how we can spend more on people in need. I couldn't have done it without it. Of course, the statement that the government is transferring the responsibility for social assistance to the municipalities is untrue, since, as I said, half a dozen subsidies and several subforms of it will be paid by the district government offices. These are so-called income compensatory subsidies. And, of course, the rest of the municipalities will not be left without help, because, as we have often said here in the House, beyond the fact that municipalities with better tax capacity can create this from business taxes or from other local taxes, let us not forget that there has been a heavy burden on the shoulders of the municipalities in the last term, since 70 different administrative matters are now being dealt with by the district offices instead of them, and the cost of these, these people's wages, is no longer charged to the municipalities, so this is also a liberated source. In addition, 30 billion forints are included for the low tax capacity, so for the poorer municipalities, to be the source of help, and another 5 billion forints from the cash register of self-inflicted municipalities - this plus 5 billion compared to last year - also serves as a source for the municipalities. The largest support will therefore be given to municipalities with a tax power of not more than HUF 18 thousand per capita; they will receive the largest support. In the case of regular social assistance, the Member is also distorted. Those who are involved in labour market cooperation with the government will receive pht and employment replacement support, while others will receive health and child protection support. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm afraid I can't accept the answer. I cannot accept it because, while the municipalities were obliged to establish their social regulation until 28 February, to this day the municipalities still do not know who, in what way, how much support they will receive for their social care system. Therefore, they had to take these subsidies in such a way that the municipalities did not know at all what situation they would be in. Based on the calculation of the National Association of Municipal Governments, some HUF 40 billion was withdrawn from this system. So we still don't know who, in what way, is going to rebuild this. That's why I can't accept the answer. I can't accept it either because as long as there are 4 million poor people in this country, you continue to be anti-poor politics. You said before that you wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road. I'm afraid they're right about that: they're being pushed into the ravine. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-02-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "Are they willing to accept anti-communist demands, or must we wait for Jobbik to come to government? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Minister for Human Resources, Minister of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-57	Dear Secretary of State, In the last 24 years, the common shame of the Fidesz and MSZP governments is that the Memorial Day of the victims of communism is still not possible to commemorate with dignity, as the past of state security has not happened, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, and even the removal of the Soviet authoritarian monument in Liberty Square. The victims of communism revolve in their graves when they are remembered in a hypocritical way, but anti-communist demands are swept down or just smudged. Gergely Pongráz, the legendary commander of Corvin Public, launched the party at the flag-breaking meeting of Jobbik, and we will act without delay instead of the current hypocritical commemorations. But we are also trying to turn the government from opposition to a better path, so we are now initiating a parliamentary debate on the failure of the regime change, the current anti-communist demands. Do you support, sign this initiative? The representatives of Jobbik and LMP have already done so. The one-party National Remembrance Committee, set up as a substitute act by the current governing parties, serves only the further delay, while it can still be a State Secretary, a former colleague of Péter Medgyessy, under cover D 209, also an agent of III/II, László Tasnádi. State security data recorded on magnetic tapes which have been encrypted until 2060 shall be researchable. It is also unacceptable that former Communist leaders in this supposedly new system can also be politicians, such as KISZ KB Secretary Ferenc Gyurcsány. Jobbik would also remove party state leaders from the heads of state companies. The payment of Communist luxury pensions is the most outrageous. The withdrawal of a few thousand forints' pension allowances for the communist medals is also a semi-solution, while the grant of the prosecutor, György Mátsik, asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, has not been reduced by one forint. Mr. Secretary, how can you remember the victims of communism? Aren't you ashamed? ! And those who have been reduced at all - like Béla Bisku or Rezső Raw - will still receive their hundreds of thousands of allowances to a minimal extent. In addition, their communist luxury pensions were raised again this year. In the previous system, it would be necessary to adopt the bill already submitted by Jobbik in July 2010, which was voted out on numerous occasions by the National Assembly with the collaboration of MSZP and Fidesz, to the greatest pleasure of Bisku, in order to review the benefits of those receiving a key pension, even without a bonus. Dear Secretary of State, Will they finally accept one of our anti-communist demands, do they support the debate day? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When you say how to remember the victims of communism: how can you remember the victims of communism in Jobbik when your party president says in an interview that KGST was better for Hungary than the European Union? How do you remember the victims of communism? [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Or when your group leader says that the bear is not a game, let's look back at our history, 1849, 1945 or 1956, and learn from it that the Russian bear should be sought out for the best possible relationship. That's what your party president says. In connection with 56 it says that we need a better relationship with Russia. How can you remember the victims of communism? However, in the past four years, this government has done everything in its power to make amends, either financially or morally, to those to whom the then governments did not give adequate satisfaction immediately after the change of regime. As an engine of this, we have established the National Remembrance Committee, which I will return to. As regards the withdrawal of pensions from former Communist leaders, you are aware, too, honourable Member, that more than 1120 files have been drawn up at the pension lender, were handed over to a historical committee, who, as historians, gave a professional opinion on the extent to which these allowances are linked to their activities in the pro-state communist period, and this allowance has been withdrawn from everyone involved in the eradication of the democratic state settlement between 1945 and 1949. The bonus was also withdrawn from those involved in the repression and retaliation of the 1956 Revolution. Even though they were awarded a medal, the allowance was lost by those who did secret service activities between 1948 and May 1990 and have received recognition for it, whether they were state leaders or pro-state leaders. [[15.00]] The former government has withdrawn the pension bonus from those in such a leading position, which they have received for various awards, recognitions and medals. Several people sued the Hungarian state, and the Hungarian state won these lawsuits. Thus, Béla Biszku or Rezső Rumány did withdraw these allowances in the previous term, which was a clear break in the era of dictatorship and post-communism in Hungary, and which clearly rejected this illegal era as a broken state of Hungarian historical continuity. The National Remembrance Committee, which I have already spoken about and the Fundamental Law provides for - of course you have not supported this - is a very diverse task, I would like to highlight only the most important ones: the preservation of the state's memory of the communist dictatorship, the discovery of the power of the communist dictatorship and the involvement in the detection of facts in the case of non-excessive crimes. It was also important in the Law on the Historical Archives of State Security Services that everyone who was observed could disclose the data of all those who were victims of the communist regime, of those officers, of those who gave orders or observers who crippled their lives, who gave or carried out instructions on them. Over the past few years, we have been trying to turn the thinking of the communist regime upside down, and to present the list of power holders as soon as possible to everyone who has benefited from this system, so that we know as much as possible about those who have benefited from it. As far as pension benefits for the victims are concerned, you know very well that the MSZP has frozen the increase in these pensions during the last years of its period; while the rest of the basic pensions have increased from year to year, it has been taken away from this part by the socialists. We in two steps, first by 16.2 percent, and then by 9.9 percent from 1 November last year, we replaced the delays that arose in this part of the pension due to the failure to raise pensions during the socialist period, so that the basic pension and compensation pension supplement would rise to the same extent. [[The president's ringing several times.]] In addition, twice a 50% increase was introduced to the allowance for those who suffered long-term deprivation of liberty. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-61	Mr. Secretary. I can't accept the misconceptions and slippings you've made here on the grounds of an answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was specific.]] He did not answer at all whether, for example, they supported the change of system debate that we initiated and did not answer many questions. For example, whether they are willing to disclose classified state security documents until 2060, which are not even accessible by the members of the National Remembrance Committee, researchers cannot access. There's a reason you didn't mention that. Unfortunately, Gábor Vona said, for example, that we should be good with the Russians, Russia, but that this unilateral western dependence that we experience in our colonialization by the European Union, we would like to balance it not only with words, but with a real economic policy turn with the Eastern opening. But we are the ones who, unlike you, would like to remove the Soviet monument of Liberty Square, a monument which is also depraved by the symbols of authoritarianism. And by the way, Russia would not object to this being removed, but only because of your servitude can it still be here, unfortunately. For all these reasons, I cannot accept your answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 17 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the importance of the new dual form of higher education training for Hungary's economy? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2015-03-02-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, One of the main objectives of the transformation of higher education in Hungary is to strengthen the relationship between higher education and business, i.e. to adapt training to real economic expectations, thus ensuring easier placement of graduates on the labour market. From 30 January 2015, in addition to the traditional form of training in Hungary, you can apply for dual training courses for applicants this year. The practice-oriented dual training model has been successful in Germany since the 1970s. It is essential that the theoretical period of the university is followed by a practical complementary phase at the company involved in the training, so that the student acquires detailed knowledge of the world of work during his university years and socializes in later corporate, operational and organizational tasks. The figures show that dual training is highly popular among both institutions and companies. Until the start of the training in September, the Dual Training Council shall determine the requirements that can be expected from the company, organisation and the specialist in practical training. Quality assurance of training places is therefore key, because dual training is not only a matter of providing a practical place for external economic organisations, but also formal training for students. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the Hungarian Government contributes to the success of the new form of higher education and how important this new form of dual training is for Hungary's economic growth. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the relationship of Hungarian higher education institutions with the actors of the local economy compared to the possibilities, except for some outstanding examples, has so far been limited, focused on certain areas and has shown itself only in certain relationships. However, last year, the government defined the place and role of dual training in the Hungarian higher education system at the statutory level. The establishment of appropriate organisational and quality requirements for training is supported by the Dual Training Council. On 26 January, the Dual Training Council itself accepted 79 applications from 21 higher education institutions for initial education. This is where dual training courses can begin. During spring, the Council will examine in a qualifying procedure whether the corporate partners of these institutions have the conditions corresponding to the dual training practical side. In the current EU budget cycle 2014-2020, nearly HUF 4 billion is used to support the development of training materials. As part of this, a TÁMOP competition was launched, where higher education institutions, together with their partners in training, could apply for curriculum development of the company side of training courses. After all, this is the novum, that at least half of their studies are carried out in companies themselves, in specific workshops and in workplaces by students taking dual training. It's not for free, it's obviously for something less than a wage. Till now, successful training cooperation between industry and higher education has been established mostly with the involvement of multinational companies. However, for the sustainability of Hungary's economic development, it is crucial that medium and small companies, Hungarian-owned enterprises, also build active cooperation with colleges and universities. Data show that dual training in addition to large companies is very popular among small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. One third of enterprises are large companies, but the vast majority of training partners are SMEs. Small and medium-sized enterprises will be assisted by dual training centres to be set up in the near future by effective participation in the dual training system. During the next period, the institutions, companies and other actors will be consulted on the tasks of training centres and the framework for their implementation. The Ministerial Commissioner responsible for coordinating the dual training of small and medium-sized enterprises helps work, also addresses the preparation of dual training centres and the coordination of the needs of participating actors. Honourable Congressman, Dual training can provide economic organisations with reliable labour supply, a secure vision for students and feedback from practical life to higher education institutions and a guarantee of quality. This form of training therefore effectively contributes to the development of a work-based society, where the driving force of the economy is increasing domestic-owned production and its organisational power is a knowledge base built around higher education institutions. [[15.10]] The Ministry of Human Resources, as you asked, will do everything in its power to ensure that this form of training is effectively involved in the implementation of the government's national economy objectives. Involvement of the corporate sphere in education processes can help to adapt academic knowledge in higher education institutions to the required knowledge in each sector, the current trends in the economic sector, the experience of higher education is constantly updated, and students will learn it already during the course of training and, based on work experience, continue their activities in the workplace where they have participated in dual training for 40 hours. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-67	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer, and I will accept it with thanks. Over the last few weeks, I have met and consulted many entrepreneurs and CEOs in my constituency, and there is a very positive feedback from companies, businesses and small businesses regarding dual training. This change is extremely important, especially in disadvantaged areas, where we are confronted with the contradiction that we want to create as many jobs as possible where the unemployment rate is still high, and at the same time we need skilled workers, at the same time. It is also very important to launch secondary dual training. I hope that in the coming years both tertiary and secondary dual education will have a positive impact, especially in disadvantaged areas, such as my constituency, South Somogy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Kónya, an independent representative, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title "New model of military and law enforcement careers, or a reduction of civil rights for some silver." On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister for the Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Congressman Péter Kónya has the floor.
u2015-03-02-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, After the negotiations with the trade unions in the last few days, it has been revealed to me that the 30 percent wage development of law enforcement workers and soldiers by the government in the previous weeks is purely political lounge. In fact, they will receive a 30% wage increase, but this will only mean up to 30 per cent wage development for the executive staff, while in the command staff, which has not had any wage development for about ten years, even after inflation, it will mean a maximum of 15 to 20 per cent wage development. We also know that a year's wage development does not show these figures, since wage development is halved. At the same time, in the course of the negotiations, you have given no guarantee of further 5-5 percent wage development. The elimination of the planned current allowances means that, in order not to reduce the salary of the staff, it is necessary to set personal wages for everyone and to divert their wages from the new pay table. This, in turn, means that their wages, calculated with the new law enforcement fund to be introduced, will not be increased to these people - in vain the police salary will rise - until they reach the hijacked wages. At the same time, the government intends to further undermine the citizens' rights of soldiers and law enforcement workers, as they have experienced in the previous government cycle, wrapped in the honey trade of wage development. Thus, among other things, they intend to prohibit the use of private mobile phones in places of service, to restrict the holding of cash and credit cards at service times and places, to post photos or writings on internet social portals that may reveal that someone is a policeman or a firefighter - obviously they will then say that they are bakers - but the draft would also prohibit trade unions from operating in national security services and would also want to restrict travel to European Union countries. You are talking about a new, predictable career model and social security based on three pillars, while there is nothing concrete about them. Why don't you tell us how much the police salary fund that triggers the civil servant's salary is going to be? If you're talking about predictability, why don't you guarantee by law that the police salary base will rise at the very least every year with previous year's inflation? In 2011, you abolished the service pension system overnight. At that time, the service pensioners were transferred to duties, thereby depriveing them of a number of rights and benefits that they had previously been entitled to. But that was not enough for you; here, within the walls of Parliament, the people who served their country armed for decades and even sacrificed their lives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You called these people free-living Kádár-hussars. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] while your minister remained silent, who, by the way, himself (The President's ringing again.) He was a free-living Kádár-hussar. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause in the ranks of independent representatives.]]
u2015-03-02-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The new public service career model covers three careers: in addition to government officials and military status, it also covers law enforcement employees. The basic objective of the government is to increase the attractiveness of the public service in all three professions, to strengthen the financial appreciation of those involved, thereby maintaining a career. During the preparation of the proposal, we paid attention to the broad understanding of the opinions and needs of the relevant professional interest representatives and advocacy organisations, the Hungarian Law Orders Faculty. Even in the autumn of last year, we had several-stage consultations with these bodies. On two occasions this year, we had discussions with 12 trade unions, as well as with the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty, and then with 14 representatives, of which 7 made further comments on the proposal. The career model is based on three pillars: the new system of promotion and salary, the new insurance system and the new housing support system. In addition to the establishment of the three pillars, the multi-stage wage development of the stock may start from 1 July 2015, with an average salary increase of 30 per cent at the time of the explanatory statement. Together with the wage increases of the following years, there will be an overall increase of around 50%. This includes an allowance based on benchmarking. The gradual increase in the salary shall be ensured by the new salary system to be established, irrespective of the level of the salary base. The basic guarantee rules for professional allowances will be laid down by law. The current rules on service obligations are not amended. There is also legislation on Jubilee Rewards, Pre-retirement Retirement Retirement Retirement, Easier Service, Senior Retirement. I would like to point out that the proposal limits the fundamental rights of professional staff only to the extent necessary due to the specific nature of professional service, proportionate to the objective pursued, while respecting the essential content of fundamental rights. This restriction is also in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. Under the proposed legislation, certain fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, the right of assembly and the violation of the rules on the restriction of the right of association are not grounds for exemption. Extraordinary events in the public service career, such as illness or an accident in the service, as well as safety and planning, may serve to develop an insurance scheme. The proposal shall be drawn up by 31 December 2016. Consequently, this subject, like the new housing support scheme, for which the proposal is to be drawn up by 31 December 2015, will be subject to specific legislation. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The bill on the status of professional law enforcement personnel will soon be submitted to this House by the government, which will be able to explain its views in detail in the course of its debate. In view of this, since I have answered all your questions, I ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-72	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-73	Dear Secretary of State, My text on interpellation in writing contains a number of specific questions, none of which have been answered. For example, he did not answer why the 16 percent penalty tax on law enforcement officers would not be abolished when they kept saying that Hungary was doing better. But you didn't answer my specific question about how much the police salary will be, but I could tell you more, I just can't say it in a minute. I think that if, instead of you, the Clown Secretary, who Viktor Orbán wanted to sit down with us in 2011, would have been able to say as much as you said. I do not think, by the way, that the soldiers, law enforcement workers you have humiliated believe that you will at any time introduce such a predictable career model, otherwise the bill is full of a viable, viable ending, which again increases their vulnerability. [[15.20]] I would like to say one thing, Mr Secretary, on March 30th. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] I'm gonna call the law enforcement staff to Parliament, and they're gonna decide...
u2015-03-02-74	Congressman, your time for reply is up.
u2015-03-02-75	.......................................................................................................................................... whether your answer is accepted. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-02-76	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 36 with no votes and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When does the government realize that the taxes on work need to be reduced? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-03-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Lords of the Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. One of the government's main flaws is that he doesn't admit his mistakes. One such fidesz complete misfire was the introduction of a single-key tax system, which takes 500 billion every year from small-time earners in vain, because it is now quite clear: this does not start the economy, it does not create jobs, but wages are reduced for 2.5 million people. Seeing that, you're not correcting your mistake, you're starting to cosmeticize. One of these beauty fliers you're using is the job security plan. You guys love action plans anyway; you're happy to use them instead of action. So, this job protection action plan is about the state taxing employers and small-income people with one hand, with the other hand, returning HUF 222 billion of public money in two years to make some adjustments to its own mistakes. But don't think that this tickle-dipping game is going to keep us going. The result is that employers who are taxed to death either fire workers who are not entitled to a discount and hire people who receive a discount or do what they do to get rid of workers after the discount they receive has expired. The problem is huge, which is also indicated by the fact that today almost half of the jobs in the market are being used by employers from the state, which they do not even try to interpret as a success, because it shows precisely that it is not possible to make the employment of working people so expensive. You know, we live in a country where if you receive 155 700 forints, it costs your employer 300,000 forints. Or if you look at the minimum wage of 68 700 HUF, it is 133 thousand HUF for the employer. In other words, the employer pays almost double of what the worker brings home. There's no such thing in the world! Our country is the first in the developed world in terms of the proportion of public withdrawals in wages, the 49 percent withdrawal is the second highest for low-income earners. These numbers show that you're doing this very badly. How much simpler and more economical it would be to reduce the burden of employment, let people work and businesses work in the white economy! The solution is simple enough: lower labour costs and contributions are needed to make employment worthwhile without benefits. This would reduce the withdrawal of ordinary and low-income people without benefits, increase employment and reduce workers' poverty, and that is the point, gentlemen and ladies. Dear Secretary of State, The demand for LMP is very clear: start a job creation programme if you have forgotten it in the last five years! We demand more wages for the workers; this is also helped by reducing the burden on the work, as you can see that the problem is great, and all the data confirms it. When will the Hungarian government finally realize that the burden of living work must be reduced?
u2015-03-02-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, You should have read this OECD report and not said big things, and if you had read it, you wouldn't have said such things. Hungary is not the world leader in any way in terms of wage charges, because it is still fourth on the basis of the OECD statistics. I'll show you the statistics. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let me see.]] You should be prepared for such an interpellation when you say such things. But let's see why. It is true that, as of 2010, the government has stated that it will change the tax system and has done so. Because, before 2010, there was a false personal income tax system in Hungary, the point of which was that there was no tax on the minimum wage, so all businesses were encouraged by the system at the time to report the employees to the minimum wage. The budget revenue was also false because it did not show real income relations, but the most unfair thing in the system was that families with children could not use family tax relief for low incomes. Although that wasn't really important for the socialist government back then. The tax system at that time has already charged employees' incomes between 64 and 67 percent of the average wage. A teacher's salary at that time, in that system, was already burdened with so much burden, and that was unfair, honourable Member. So the Fidesz government changed it. True, he introduced a single-key tax, 16 percent at present, and stated that all income should be taxed. By the way, in the statistics mentioned by you, poorly mentioned, an income was presented, a family where there is no child, a person, in a single search system. If in Hungary, where the most fundamental element of the personal income tax system is the family tax relief, which has already been used by more than one million families, for example, in 2014, 236 billion were used by family tax relief, then Hungary is now 10th place in this statistics without even seeing the 2014 figures, with only 34 percent so-called tax wedges, ahead of several Visegrad countries, such as Poland. So the question is, of course, whether this 16 percent personal income tax is sufficient. The government's clear objective and firm aim is to further reduce the level of personal income tax, because it wants to change within the tax system and has already taken the fundamental steps to reduce income tax, which is also true of corporate tax, and to reduce private income tax. The government's determined goal is to have a single digit as the key to personal income tax in Hungary, so that we can benefit families, so that we can benefit workers and people who raise children. In addition, the tax relief of the two children will increase by HUF 5 000 per year from the following year and will double by 2019. I believe that the objective of the priority of the personal income tax system is clear: to support and favour income creators, families, children's educators. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-80	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-81	I cannot accept your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Defiance, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] You say nothing but that everything is fine as it is. Mr Secretary, I do not think it is okay that if an employer pays a HUF wage to the employee, the other HUF is given to the state as a tax. It's huge! 49 percent of what you're talking about is the total cost of the wage. Dear Secretary of State, The world has not seen this, and in the OECD we are in first and second place, and this is terribly disappointing, because it is a guarantee that this country will never be able to catch up if this goes on. I took the liberty of suggesting to you that if their goal is to strengthen Hungary, then they should be able to do this so that the Hungarian people, the 90 percent that you have not dealt with in the last five years, can grow stronger. So many people can grow stronger if they change the tax system and change the very bad practice of forcing entrepreneurs into grey and black zones. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] And what I can tell you about family tax breaks is that it will always rise next year with families with two children... [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2015-03-02-82	Congresswoman, you can answer in a next interpellation.
u2015-03-02-83	That's what they said last year, that's what they're saying again this year. I can't accept the answer.
u2015-03-02-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 39 votes against and no abstentions. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Bene Ildikó has the floor.
u2015-03-02-85	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, On average, about 1,500 new cervical cancers are diagnosed each year in our country. The disease, if discovered in time, is practically completely curable, yet it is regrettable that more than 400 women die every year in Hungary as a result of cervical cancer. It is a good thing that the government decided to include HPV vaccination in the vaccination programme as of 2014. A number of other positive measures have been taken in the field of public health in recent years. There has been a broad cooperation to combat cancer. We have established legislation on the protection of non-smokers, so as of 1 January 2012 smoking is prohibited in public traffic, enclosed air spaces, community spaces, public health product tax has been introduced, and legislation also regulates the reduction of the intake of trans-fat acids. In 2013, 58 health development offices started to operate, with close contacts with general practitioners, local governments, civil society organisations, and several screening models were launched. However, it is regrettable that the national mortality data of women under 60 years of age from breast cancer, cervical cancer and lung cancer show that lung cancer has increased significantly among them, but it is also a welcome fact that the other types of cancer suffer from stagnation or reduction. 90 percent of lung cancers are associated with smoking. In Hungary, 20,000 people die every year from smoking, and one third die from lung cancer. According to a comprehensive study published last year by the World Health Organisation's International Cancer Research Agency, around 14 million new cancers were registered in the world every year in 2012, with lung cancer in the highest proportion, approximately 1.8 million new cases per year. Dear Secretary of State, Recent effective anti-smoking measures have led to a decrease in the number of smokers, but this is primarily true of men, with an increase in the number of smokers among young and middle-aged women. In any case, quitting programs should be continued and the public should be alerted to the symptoms of the disease so that therapy can be started as soon as possible. In addition to the broad cooperation so far, what additional government measures are expected to prevent and combat cancer? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-86	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Cancer diseases are the second most common cause of death in Europe, including in Hungary. In Hungary, 33 thousand people are lost every year as a result of cancer. Cancer death is one quarter, 25%, of all deaths. The government prioritises the preventive development of the health care system, which is implemented on a cross-cutting basis in several stages. In order to achieve the highest number of early detection and treatment, the strategic objective is to significantly increase screening. In order to achieve this, a review of the system of organised screening is under way, an examination of the inclusion of positive incentives for inclusion in screening programmes, especially for disadvantaged populations. Priority should be given to steps that contribute to a healthy lifestyle. Such steps include the introduction of a public health product tax, the dissemination of full school health development, or the modernisation of public catering, to which we have also amended legislation. It is essential that long-term, sustainable measures to combat cancers underpin the future health of citizens. To reduce cancer, two ways are possible, one can be achieved by developing a healthier lifestyle, changing or avoiding key risk factors, and the other by participating in screening in order to discover a cancer prevention or early stage. The long-term objective of organised public health screening studies is to identify and reduce the current increasing rate of cancer. The short-term goal is to include as many people at risk of age as possible in screening. Organised and targeted public health screening studies may include procedures for which efficacy has been measurablely demonstrated, which is currently the two-year breast screening of women aged 45 to 65 years, a repeat gynaecological screening every three years after a single negative screening of women aged 25 to 65 years, and a biennial colon and rectal screening of men and women aged 50 to 70 years, which is not yet national. The organised breast screening task is currently 37 so-called complex screening centres for both mammographic screening and clinical disease monitoring, and 7 is performed exclusively by a mammography screening station limited to the screening tests. The rate of participation in breast screening has been almost 45 percent for years, and obviously the aim is to increase this rate to the highest possible rate, as this rate is less than half. However, the number of deaths due to breast cancer has decreased over the last decade. In order to increase participation in organized cervical screening, a cervix screening programme has been launched by women's patronage, which was also targeted at the beginning of her interpellation. Guardians also win access to screenings for women who have not been to a gynecologist for ten or more years. A national extension of the protective cervix screening programme has been launched, whereby patrons working primarily in settlements of less than 5 000 persons are entitled to perform cervical screening. By vaccination against cervical cancer against HPV, HPV infection that causes disease can be prevented. From September 2014 schools will be vaccinated against HPV among girls aged 12-13 with parental approval. Their graft is 74 percent. They should, of course, be given less, less often than at an older age, when this problem is more likely to arise before 40 years. In four counties - Győr-Moson-Sopron, Nógrád, Heves, Csongrád county - there is currently a programme of colon and rectal screening among women and men aged 50-70 with the participation of general practitioners. This year we spend more than HUF 5 billion on professional programs, health development offices and many other ways we try to take part in prevention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-89	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, there are two very important areas. One is screening, screening programmes, public health measures that primarily serve prevention. These are the measures that will not bear fruit from one minute to the next. But I think that this is it, and this is very well included in the 2020 programme, that these are the most important things, because to preserve the health or to discover the disease in time, when it is completely curable, I think that this is our most important task. And indeed, it should also be said that very serious oncological developments are taking place in the country today, very serious oncological programs. It is a pleasure for me, and I would like to stress this, that at last in Szolnok County, precisely as a result of this program, the patient no longer has to go to another county for radiodiagnostic tests. Thank you very much. I respectfully accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-90	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Whose interests do they represent with the closings on Sunday? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-03-02-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, around 530,000 people work in retail trade, more than HUF 8000 billion is what appears as traffic. They need to know that the largest taxpayer is practically retail, and they need to know, as I confirmed by the previous example, that they also make up the largest workforce. They also need to know that the National Association of Entrepreneurs, in relation to what you are doing, i.e. closings on Sundays, says that the budget will have to fall about 200-250 billion forints. The question arises right away: how will they put it in its place? Will new taxes be levied, perhaps in a way that is family-friendly, as Christian democrats usually say, so that families are naturally affected by these new taxes? But speaking of families, let's take a look at this Sunday question. [[15.40]] I think we need to rethink Fidesz and Christian Democrats about whether this is a good decision. I don't think so, but they have to think because in families children are usually home on Saturdays and Sundays; parents are, if they can work. Then the consequence of this, you know, is that if the child has to buy shoes or clothes or anything else, he usually goes to the store with his mother or father, buys this either on Saturday or Sunday. You know, what you're doing, on an ideological basis or on the basis of any other approach, is taking away the possibility from millions of people. Plus, the weekend's gonna be a lot of pressure. The already crowded and pregnant Saturdays or Friday afternoons are even more burdened by the fact that Sundays are being taken away from people. I have to say that, of course, it is also a meaty story, because those who work and do work on Sundays take away the possibility of obtaining resources. You wish to father the people. Trust me, they don't need it. Believe me, people can decide for themselves what's right for them. I don't need you to do this, no! Believe me, I don't want them. They should therefore consider how, how, and how, this decision should be changed, how to withdraw from this question. I think you should think about it. That decision was not a good decision. Change it. You can even get some sympathy with that. Change it because if you don't, a lot of people will face you. All I have to ask you is, do you need a signature collection? Do you need a multitude of submissions, or do you need them to withdraw their bad decision, and when will they do so? Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You are talking about a measure and a decision that has not yet been introduced, but is accepted by the Parliament, indeed. I think that the aim of the decision is clear: the majority of Parliament has supported workers who also have to do work on Sundays, who cannot be with their families on Sunday, who cannot rest, so that their workforce can regenerate for everyday work. He sided with the family mothers who can't prepare their children for the next day's school on Sunday, he can't talk to them, he can't answer the lesson because he has to go to work because the socialists want him to. By the way, the Socialist Party proclaims itself to be on the side of workers and workers. I'm asking you why you're not standing there right now. Do their petty, short-term political interests now say that hundreds of thousands of workers who have to work on Sundays will be given up? [[Crying on both sides. An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! The president's ringing the bell.]] Because right now on the other side, it seems like there's more of them right now, and that's more popular? [[Noise, interruptions on both sides.]] It's not nice. It's not nice to demand from a left-wing party that hundreds of thousands of people go and work on Sundays! And the fact that you're protecting us from losing budget revenue, don't do that. This should have been done when you were in government, and you couldn't meet the budget deficit once in eight years. During Fidesz's governance, two years were sufficient to bring the country out of the excessive deficit procedure and to balance the budget. It's not credible when you're afraid of losing your budget to the country, fear for the government's activities, the Fidesz! As far as workers are concerned, it is well known that there is a significant shortage of labour in trade. So if you came forward that, due to restructuring, a worker would temporarily lose his job in a given place, you would obviously be able to find this in another commercial unit. So the macroeconomic indicators, the unemployment indicators, do not justify your fear. And let me also say that the trade unions, the left-wing trade unions, did not support this original idea and proposal, and they also said that the interest of workers wants us to create the condition that we do not have to do the work of those retail workers on Sunday. Honourable Congressman, I think that this was a really brave decision by the Parliament, because this is not a government proposal, and it is obvious that we will stand by our decision and wait for its experience, wait for its results, and if you are right about anything or anyone, any of our critics, obviously we will discuss this issue again and we will discuss it again. But today's intention is clear: no one should work on Sunday. Now we have created conditions for retail workers not to have to do work on Sundays. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be happy to see Secretary of State Tállai at the first Sunday closing, whether I go there with him, and then we'll consult with the people. [[Noise, interruptions from Fidesz: People will be home.]] You know, a lot of other things, not just Sunday's close-ups -- they've also cut down on people's early days, they wanted an Internet tax, and now Sunday's close-up? My fellow Member, Harrach, may be sitting among us. [[Intercom from Fidesz: He's not here. Noise.]] He fought here to reduce your 100 percent allowance to 50 percent again, but his other fellow Member, Satmary, Mengyi, I don't know who else, traveling in pairs, want to eliminate it in the next few days, even tonight. You know, you should now wear the T-shirt taken off by the right-wingers, or ride together in arms, so that the Hungarian Socialist Party's submissions, such as Parliamentary resolutions, can be met with regard to the right to retire in connection with the introduction after 40 years of service. But the last thing I said about closing a store on Sunday is that instead of some crazy-ass action, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They should be thinking more about opening hours. As long as you can. Thank you very much, I cannot accept the answer.
u2015-03-02-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Despite the great promises, has the government really renounced the reform of the judicial enforcement system? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2015-03-02-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik believes that the independent judicial enforcement system cannot be reformed and must be fully reformed. One of the reasons for abusive operation is that executives act as profit-oriented entrepreneurs, and therefore in many cases their own interests precede the needs of enforcement seekers and debtors. This is a world of capitalism - you could say, but just as they do not function as profit-oriented businesses in other state tasks, so is the attitude of the country in the field of implementation. Let's just imagine, what if the policemen's salary was in line with the fines imposed or the judges' salary to the people in prison? For us, the implementation of state judgments is as much a public task as the work of the police, the court or the prosecution. Until recently, we have hoped that the government and the parliamentary majority of the Fidesz-KDNP will see that the current system operates as an economic slaughterhouse and that a profit-oriented approach must be banished. After the Fidesz-KDNP faction meeting, all the people with a feeling of cold showers were swept under the rug, and instead of real solutions, they only came up with horse-zungs, promised stronger state control, but the complete transformation of the system as a solution failed. So let the executives continue to get richer, the system is actually okay. Executors can breathe and be disappointed by debtors and enforcement seekers that many of their responsibilities remain with private entrepreneurs. [[15.50]] The government promised to account for the executioners. The Chamber is currently being examined by a ministerial Commissioner and, hopefully, by the executives. We know from the press that disciplinary action is expected, but we haven't heard from criminal reports yet. We provide all the help we can to account for the executioners, but we do not want the investigation not to be followed, where appropriate, by criminal proceedings. We also do not understand how the Minister of Justice and the Fidesz faction can state that maintaining the current system is the only solution for salvation before the Minister's investigation is completed. Dear Secretary of State, I feel that, despite the big words, the government is not sufficiently committed to the accountability of executives. We continue to claim that the system of independent judicial enforcement has failed, operates abusively and cannot be reformed. We need a new non-profit state system. So I ask you, where are you with the accountability? How many criminal reports have been filed against the bailiffs? How can they declare that they continue to believe in profit-oriented court execution before complete completion of investigations? Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you for a substantive answer to this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, According to the government's consistent position, enforcement is still part of the state's justice system. At present, about three thousand people are active in the implementation, and the system should ensure, in addition to the executives, the performance of the tasks of the deputy executives, the candidates and their administrative staff, and the maintenance of the office information infrastructure. Making executives a public employee would include the costs of paying an additional 2500 to 2,800 public employees and setting up and operating the entire infrastructure. However, the fact that the costs of the operation of the executives are not financed by the State, but by those seeking enforcement, and ultimately borne by the debtors, does not alter the fact that enforcement, which is the final stone of justice, is a public public task which the State oversees. The law of enforcement and its regulations have undergone countless amendments over the last 20 years. However, these amendments have not always fulfilled their expectations. The Government aims to ensure that procedures are conducted efficiently, fairly and, in particular, with respect to debtors, taking into account human dignity. To date, the legislator has tried to respond adequately to failure by clarifying the rules of the procedure and by drawing up more and more detailed rules. In this situation, a better outcome can be achieved not only towards a more detailed regulation of the implementation process, but also through the supervision of the conduct and functioning of executives and the supervision of complaints against the conduct of executives. On this issue, the Government Decree and the Ministerial Decree on Justice entered into force on 1 March. The Justice Office has already started preparing, and the supervision of complaints is already fully operational on the first working day of March. The first audits of the department carrying out the control of the conduct of the executioners are expected to start in April to May following the preparation, and the checks will be followed by consistent disciplinary procedural practices. Honourable Congressman, Legislation should lay down the principles of the procedure in the law on enforcement, which may in future serve as a standard for the courts and the supervisory authorities assessing enforcement objections. We consider, among other things, the requirements of transparency of the procedure and the completion of procedures in a reasonable time, the requirement of a fair procedure, including the need to establish that it is entitled to a fair fee and the necessary costs of performing the task in the course of its enforcement procedure. In the future, in order to increase the effectiveness of supervisory work and to enforce the principles, public supervision should require the Executive Chamber to establish methods and procedures that are able to monitor the effectiveness of individual enforcement cases and the work of each executive and create opportunities for supervision or legislative intervention, if an undesirable derogation occurs. Honourable Congressman, The government is therefore acting decisively in the interests of those who suffer from implementation. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-100	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We didn't hear any specifics. How many criminal proceedings have been filed? Where's the background check? If the screening isn't over yet, how do you know the nonprofit system wouldn't be good? We don't want national executive shops, Mr. Secretary. It is not the market that needs to be redistributed so that the current set may be dismissed and fidesz buddies appointed for profit. That's not what we want. That is why we want to go to the basic principle that we need a non-profit system. But Jobbik announced the principle of volunteering in 2015, so we are very happy to provide experts in social work to the government for this screening. I'm applying myself - because I'm qualified, which is the government decree 11. It is mentioned in Section 5 of the Act - that the screening of social work is also supported by myself and my fellow lawyers. If you have nothing to hide, then take this opportunity, let us be there when this screening is done. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 107, 30 against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When will the Hungary of small farmers come? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-03-02-103	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Practically a multitude of government efforts have promised both before 2010 and in the period following that the rural population will have a period of small farmers, middle farmers and family farmers. Unfortunately, on the basis of the experience of recent years, it is clear, however, that there have been opposite events. From 2015, area payments were removed from holdings of less than 1 hectare, which are more capable of labour-intensive farming, such as eco-management or film systems. At the same time, more and more public money migrates through the agricultural support system to billionaires. As in 2013, businessmen such as Zsolt Nyerges, Lajos Simicska, Sándor Csányi and Tamás Leisztinger were given the most agricultural subsidies in 2014 as well as companies and groups of companies belonging to their interests. Zsolt Nyerges alone, through the related groups of companies, pumped a total of HUF 6 billion of state agricultural subsidies out of the rural development register in 2014. I would like to emphasise that support for large economies has increased, and all these entrepreneurs I am talking about, and their groups of companies have been able to increase their support between 2013 and 2014. They received nearly HUF 800 million more than they did the year before. The Csányi Empire also pocketed 6 billion public funds. Obviously, the question arises as to how this agricultural support system serves, according to the government, to make Hungary the country of small and medium-sized farmers' cooperatives. How does this help us to become a country of family farmers? How can the illegal and illegal looting of agricultural subsidies be prevented? What is the government's plan to strengthen the life and competitiveness of small farms? What is being done to increase the employment potential of agriculture, thereby increasing the population-preservation power of the countryside? What are they doing to keep the villages from being depopulated, where the destruction of the village began in the Gyurcsányist era? What will the government do to ensure that EU aid is given to rural people and not to agricultural barons for the vast majority of aid? It is certainly well known to honourable Members that, while public attention is being drawn to second- and third-rate problems, in recent years, we have found out about the abuse of agricultural subsidies that would harm taxpayers by billions, whether the illegal claim for area payments of more than HUF 1.5 billion, or the misuse of applications for machine purchase, or the case that was reported as a playground scandal, which was discovered by the European Anti-Fraud Office, rather than by the MVH. I asked the Minister whether these processes, which are contrary to what he has promised, when they will change or if they will change, have any other purpose at all. I'd like an answer to that. Thank you very much. [[16.00]]
u2015-03-02-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Nagy responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-105	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Between 2010 and 2014, Hungary's agricultural performance and output increased by 23 percent and 43 percent respectively. Gross value added increased by 56.3 percent during the same period, the profitability of the sector increased by 84.2 percent and the profitability of agricultural work was 66.3 percent higher than it was four years ago. The results of livestock production have been improving dynamically since 2011, which has not been experienced since 2000, and livestock has been increasing with joy for all important animal species. Employment in agriculture and food processing can generate more than 60,000 surplus at the end of 2014 compared to early 2010. The number of individual farms specifically producing the market has increased by 49 percent since 2010 and increased to 165,000. I could continue to list positive figures, from a spectacular improvement in the income situation of individual farms to a strong increase in the results achieved by social enterprises. In his criticism of the agricultural support system, he may have overlooked the fact that we are part of the European Union's common agricultural policy and are therefore in many respects on a course. In addition, I find it somewhat excessive to justify the difficult situation in the countryside with agricultural and rural development support for the HUF 600-700 billion paid annually. The reduction of the share of large estates to 20 percent, the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises and family farms, together with the instrument of ownership policy and support policy, is a declared government objective. I do not know if you have been informed that the new Land Traffic Act, which entered into force last year, has significantly reduced the maximum amount of land that can be used by one person, or if you have heard of the government's decision to stop the single area payment from 2015 onwards for more than 1200 hectares. It was also our decision to introduce a simplified support system for small farms, with tens of thousands of farmers and small farms on a few hectares more easily and more quickly. I would also like to mention rural development and area support opportunities to strengthen young farmers' careers, as well as the welcome fact that young farmers and individual farmers are the main beneficiaries of the new rental system in the national park. Our support system is the number one beneficiary of micro, small and medium-sized farms. In many of our promotional titles, large companies cannot participate in the first place. Among our many credit programmes, the vast majority of borrowers are micro- and small enterprises, most of whom are family farmers, as an example of the agricultural-Széchenyi card. I do not want to impose too much on the numbers, but if you allow me to add one more figure: the SME sector receives around 92% of the total number of agricultural subsidies, so its concern about the distorted aid scheme is completely unfounded. The claim that the area payment between 0.3 and 1 hectare has been taken away from smaller farms is impossible, since they have not yet received such aid, we have only made an exception for plantations, but from 2015 it is not possible because of changes in EU rules. However, in many ways we are helping this farming community to increase its territory to create viable estates and to secure a secure livelihood for itself and its family by strengthening its economy. I can tell you about the abuse attempt discovered in the MVH back in 2013 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That the amount you mentioned was not paid, the perpetrators were arrested, and the NAV Directorate-General for Crime handed the case over to the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office with an indictment proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-02-106	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-02-107	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I can say no to this question without chewing and without having to think too much. The figures that show the increase in production are just as much as the number of livestock farmers are able to continue to grow. If you look at it, the lawn area will continue to decline. Extensive livestock farming, which has an employment impact, will be reduced. It is the large livestock sectors that can grow and large farms can grow. The common agricultural policy, which you call a fixed track, would give us the opportunity to start reducing the aid from 300 hectares rather than 1000 hectares. There would be an opportunity to support the little ones even more and give more, but we are not trying to do so. In the same way, it can be said that the land traffic law, which you liked to refer to, is in the same way beneficial to the farmers, since all the pre-emptive systems help those with neighbouring lands, they have land in many places, and therefore not the small ones, whose holdings of 50 hectares, let's say, do not, can be strengthened. That's why I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 104 yes, 44 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. What are the mysterious affairs of the state that he claims to have done abroad with his own money? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2015-03-02-109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In May last year, the Origo News Portal reported in a detailed series of articles on the more cost-effective trips to Switzerland and Italy in 2013 than in the case of the post of Head of the Orbán Government. Since then, Minister, according to his own statement, he has repaid 2 million forints spent on extraordinarily high costs. However, the Hungarian public has not yet received an answer as to the purpose of these exclusive public travels. He even took a first-degree lost trial, Minister, just to give an account of the details of his stay abroad as soon as possible. He refused to answer my written questions for the sixth time on the grounds that the travels were related to the activities of the Information Office for Foreign Intelligence and that he could not provide information on them for reasons of national security. In view of this, however, it is very surprising that it has not been willing to answer my multiple questions about whether or not qualified data have been generated in connection with travels and whether national security services have been involved in their organisation and conduct. This should have been the case if you were indeed involved in matters relating to the role of the Information Office abroad. Refusal to provide technical information on the organisation of roads may raise suspicion that your travels could actually serve other purposes. This can only be further reinforced by the fact that he later reimbursed the costs with his own money. For what was the public task that he was finally willing to contribute 2 million forints out of his own pocket? Or was it not a public mission to call him abroad, but a private or business purpose for his journey? Did you go abroad on behalf of Viktor Orbán, as the government spokesperson Giró-Szász mentioned earlier? Therefore, the questions remain open. Before you try to argue in your reply that judicial proceedings are pending in the London case, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that otherwise my technical questions have nothing to do with journalistic questions on the London road. So I'm going to keep up with my questions. The purpose of the travels, the conditions under which they were organised, and the topic of the negotiations were pre-qualified data? If yes, indicate the level and the exact time of the rating. Have classified information been generated during the travels, or information sensitive to national security? If yes, please indicate the level and time of the rating. And I wonder if you don't think that if you continue to give me clear answers to these questions, as you have failed six times, then you will admit that the stubborn secrecy that you personally have is too expensive for you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's for cover-up.
u2015-03-02-110	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-03-02-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Your Honour, my fellow Member. First of all, I thank you for your extremely honored and persistent interest in my travels abroad, my foreign programs. I am very sorry that you are interested in my informal, partly formal, or private ways. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He did not say that!]] And it's not my official duties. In view of the fact that you asked me whether it was a secret matter of state, if it is a matter of secret affairs, I cannot, of course, inform the public of Parliament; and if, in the second part of your question, you have the truth that I have paid with my own money and it is a private journey, I do not yet see the time to involve you in it. [[Defiance, noise from the benches of the governing parties and Jobbik. Interview from Jobbik's benches: For now?]] [[16.10]] If we are to be serious, my honourable fellow Member [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] , assessing your persistent interest, I can confirm to you what I have already said to the precious interest of Origo and to your written questions, and this is that it is true that on several occasions, either on behalf of the Prime Minister or on behalf of the Prime Minister, that the duties of office are clearly linked to the activities of the Information Office that I have supervised, or that the professional areas that I have supervised, such as Paks, could be discussed, or that I have been appointed by the Prime Minister abroad and I will continue to walk in the future. The Hungarian rules on data protection and data disclosure, concerning which I consulted the former Data Protection Ombudsman and consulted the President of today's Data Protection Authority in the person of the data protection ombudsman, unfortunately - in my view also taking on national security risks in these matters - put the principle of the public above data protection and national security interests. The fact is, my dear fellow Member, that with regard to the matters in which I have acted, I can tell you that it is not in the interests of the Hungarian State today that the process of these matters, these negotiations, should be made public. If I were to answer your questions about your qualification, I saw that you were prepared or prepared, you know perfectly well that the answer to the question would in itself be a breach of state secrecy. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: It's so secret, we don't even know it's classified!]] As to the nature of the roads, I would be happy to tell you, Congresswoman, what I have said to the public, and I appreciate that this is the most important problem of the legislation, where I have been abroad with the money I have paid, but I am happy to say it. Three roads have aroused your interest and interest in the Origo, all three of which I myself have informed the news portal. One is a Swiss road, the other is a London road, as you have spoken about it, and in the case of the third road, as is well known, I have conducted negotiations which I have made available to you in my reply and have clearly marked them. I would like to inform you that I have met people on these trips, and I have negotiated with people whose identities I will never reveal under any circumstances, but I have paid the price of these trips, which I have confirmed to the public with a cashier's statement, worth about two million forints. If there were a majority in the legislation, then I think that the data protection rules should be amended for reasons of national security, since not all state negotiations are public when it is in the State's interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-112	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Minister's answer.
u2015-03-02-113	I do not accept the Minister's reply because I asked for information which is public information, by the way. I would like to add that by going around the answer again, I wonder if you do not think that the Information Office may seem to be being used as a screen. [[John Lazarus: No!]] [[John Lazarus: No!]] Do you not think that it may seem that manual control may be used to use one of the national security services for party policy purposes? (John Lazarus: No!) And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that patriotism, the service of the country is a very important and responsible task for politicians, which must be manifested daily in action for the common good. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's what you do!]] If this is not the case, there may be suspicion that under the pretext of patriotism they are trying to cover up petty individual interests [[John Lazarus: Are you telling me this?]] So you can get more of these. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and you may be familiar with Samuel Johnson's saying...
u2015-03-02-114	Thank you, Congresswoman...
u2015-03-02-115	...who said that the bastards' last rescue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] patriotism.
u2015-03-02-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply by 105 yes, 44 votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 16:00 and 15 minutes, and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Before we get to the immediate questions, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, at the initiative of the MSZP, the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee is expected to be held at the Delegation Hall at 5:15 p.m. after immediate questions and answers. The factions have been notified of this. Dear Parliament, We're going to talk about immediate questions. Attila Tamás Attila Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How did it feel? It's an address. Mr Attila Harangozó has the floor.
u2015-03-02-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I look forward to your answer in two cases of which you are personally involved and which have rightly shuddered the entire Hungarian public opinion, but above all the mood of Fidesz and your supporters so far. The first is the case of Lajos Simicska, your former college roommate and your noisy breakup. This is the most vulgar breakup you'll ever see in a South American soap opera. However, the case is far from funny, since Lajos Simicska has been the most important background man of you and Fidesz in recent decades. Sándor Naughty said that during that time he was wheeling the money for the Fidesz. Zsolt Bayer, founder of Fidesz, wrote the following about him, and I quote: "You know that, Louis, I know that without you, there would be no Fidesz, since 94. The special interest of these sentences is that it is not about you, Viktor Orbán, but about Lajos Simicska. What happened, Prime Minister? Please tell me how you lived that Friday. Yet, what can your allies expect if one of your oldest friends is already afraid of physical destruction? The other question relates to President Putin's visit. As known, the Russian president at the Fujei Road cemetery has wreathed the Soviet monument, which is understandable for him. However, he did all of this in the shadow of the memorial of the Soviet heroes who defeated the 1956 revolution. Prime Minister! How could you contribute to this as your host? Did you say to the former colonel of the KGB that this gesture is equal to the humiliation of the Hungarian nation? How did it feel to negotiate with Putin after that? Or did the gas and nuclear business make you forget what the real genesis of the Fidesz was? Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister with great respect: in his reply, avoid the words "you," "you," "the last eight years," "communists" and other similar terms. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] He owes his own electorate his honest answer in the first place. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-02-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the immediate question. I give you the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-03-02-119	Although, without a doubt, my honourable fellow Member, it is true that I may have a reason to mention all the things that you have rejected me, because you were Communists after all. [[Zoltán Lukács: He was a great communist!? The Bellman was a communist!?]] You've been ruling for the last eight years, but after you asked me to, I'm gonna let it go. Instead, I'd rather answer the other two questions. The first question you raised, I can answer you that all questions can be discussed in Hungarian politics, but it is not possible to put Hungarian public opinion, Hungarian voters or people interested in politics in an unfair position, and therefore the Hungarian government does not participate in any debate at a certain level. As far as the Soviet monument is concerned, you must be aware of the real facts that have now been well neglected. We are indeed in a difficult situation for two reasons. During World War II, Hungary was invaded by soldiers from the Soviet Union, and the revolution of 56 was defeated by the intervention of the Soviet Union. Both had Soviet military casualties. The victims of both events have monuments. Hungary's relationship with them has always been uneven and uneven. Of course, conflicting political relations are overwritten by human and Christian considerations. In addition, the memorials and tombs of the soldiers who died in World War II and the soldiers who died in the Soviet aggression of 56 are located in one place, they are difficult to separate. Therefore, Hungary is always, although undoubtedly accompanied by political tension, but acknowledges that if the leaders from Russia - if they were coming from Ukraine, we would do the same - they would pay their respects to these tombs. All I can say in answer is that when Hungary attacked the Soviet Union on the side of fascist Germany and our soldiers fell at the Don turn, they were buried there. [[16.20]] There are monuments there today, tombs that are the tombs of the aggressors from Russia. Yet, so far, Russia has not, on any occasion, raised objections to caring for, maintaining, or even taking part in those graves, and they allow Hungary to express its feelings of mercy whenever an official delegation is there. I think it's right, and reciprocity is desirable from this point of view. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-120	I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-02-121	Thank you very much. As far as your communism is concerned, Prime Minister, I have been told that in Fidesz this was not a question of an uneven answer, at least until now, but we have now learned from you that this is now a question of the opposite for you or for you. [[Noise in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Mr. Prime Minister, As I said, you owe your true answer to your fellow Members and your own supporters. Thank you very much, for our part, we think we know what we can expect from you. However, these cases show that you have more power and money than your principles, and we think and see that these cases should be a warning example - and I am talking primarily about the Simicska case - to all the Fidesz politicians and supporters that are in the fight between you and your former roommate today in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. I give you the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-03-02-123	I've already answered, thank you very much. [[Noise, sporadic clarity.]]
u2015-03-02-124	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How will prosperity be here? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-03-02-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, When you won the victory in 2010, with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate, the government had a significant toolbox to improve the fate of the country, the fate of the people. It's worth checking out what we've come up with since then. I have already told Mr Tállai, State Secretary, that if we looked at the changes in wages in Hungary in euro, we would not have caught up with wages in Western Europe compared to 2010, on the contrary, wages in Hungary have decreased in euro, on the contrary, with other countries; wages have increased in Romania, Slovakia and Poland, for example. With regard to economic growth, the government continues to have a positive success propaganda, claiming that the performance of the Hungarian economy is constantly increasing. But it's worth seeing what's growing in this country. What I see is that, on the one hand, poverty, which, according to Eurostat data, affects 33.5 percent of the Hungarian population, i.e. one third, and, on the other hand, the economic growth that you are very proud of, is essentially created by foreign-owned companies. And if we look at the GDP growth that the government has regularly boasted about since the change of regime, we can see that it is a GDP increase that has increased almost continuously since the change of regime, but has not brought prosperity to the inhabitants of the country, but on the contrary, this country has started to go downhill, people have lost their livelihood, they have lost their safety of life. And if you look at the means by which the government has tried to help them, there are hardly any 27 percent VAT and a number of other similar austerity measures that are world records. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-126	Thank you, Congressman. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the immediate question. I give you the floor, Prime Minister.
u2015-03-02-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a feeling of Déjà vu, I recall that this debate has already been held a few times over the past four years. I told you then, I have a feeling you're addressing these questions in the wrong place. Well, we're the ones trying to fix the ruined country. Why don't you ask those questions to the people who destroyed the country? As far as the results are concerned, you say that the figures in euro do not look good. How fortunate it is to pay in Hungary, not in euros, but in forints! With regard to the results, I must say that I have never really understood from a national emotional group why you would be pleased to have the country's results taken away. I am willing to admit that the government is not perfect, it has many flaws, and it can be criticized by the government. That's okay, that's why we're here. But why are you pleased that the result that the country has made with a joint effort - in which the government is involved, but now it is about the entire Hungarian people - is achieved by you, you underline it, relativisit it, pull it out, overwrite it, underestimate it, actually violate the people. It is not because of the government that the country has come out of trouble - of course, it is not wrong to have a good government at hand - but because people have been willing to work more than before. People have turned to each other with greater confidence, greater confidence in entrepreneurs, and were willing to make extra efforts. If we had made as much effort as we had before, we would never have gotten out of trouble. Why don't you just admit it? Why is it painful for you that Hungary, ten million people, has succeeded in bringing together and achieving results that the second and third most growing economy in Europe is ours? Why does it hurt? Why can't you say that real wages in Hungary increased by more than 4.5 percent in 2014? Why do you feel bad about this? I think it's a misconceived opposition role. Resist us, attack us, and I ask you not to attack the country, not the people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-128	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner in return.
u2015-03-02-129	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that I have given you an opinion on your work, and I ask you not to step behind the country, because there seems to be less and less of the country behind you. The other part that is worth mentioning is whether the 600 thousand Hungarians who have left the country in recent years [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Did he leave because they were really adventurous, or, on the contrary, because of this economic policy, people have become poor, they have lost their safety of life, and unfortunately, we are now there, while we are now trying to protect Hungary's borders from economic refugees through Jobbik's signature-gathering action, while unfortunately our Hungarian citizens have also become economic refugees thanks to your government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-02-131	I was forced to say earlier that I do not consider it an honest, straightforward thing to do to use in political chess games people who, by the way, decided to make a very difficult decision to try to get along abroad. They are constantly attacking these people, pretending to do something wrong, even though these people appreciated their situation and decided that they could probably make much more money abroad than they did at home. There is a price to pay for this: it is not easy to earn more money abroad, ladies and gentlemen, but instead of speaking with appreciation about these people, they are constantly talking about them in a negative context. Every year, these people send home about 2 billion euros of money. They work outside and send him home. Why don't we just admit why we don't appreciate them? Why don't they get the credit they deserve anyway? Ladies and Gentlemen, As far as the situation at home is concerned, I would just like to say briefly that there are 76 417 vacant posts in Hungary at the moment. I would like to encourage everyone to look for a job, because the expansion of the Hungarian economy gives everyone the opportunity to thrive at home, even for less wages than if they were working abroad. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-132	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Is there land tax in Hungary? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-03-02-133	Perfect, thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-134	I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai.
u2015-03-02-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, My question is whether there is a soil tax in Hungary, but I could also ask who governs Hungary. We can clearly see that on 24 December 2012, in the spirit of Christmas Eve, Minister Fazekas told the Hungarian Newspaper that there will be no land tax in Hungary, and the Fidesz government does not intend to introduce this. Then we saw the processes that last year, smuggled into the regulation on local taxation, but it did appear, and we already know about 11 municipalities that made use of this opportunity, but obviously in the trial run this number will increase in 2016. [[16.30]] A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Agriculture issued a communication asking the municipalities not to levy land taxes, and it seemed to reject, in agreement with the opposition parties, that the land as a means of production as one of the most important resources of the national economy should be a separate system of taxation. So, with the farming wallet, we seemed to be on a platform. Nevertheless, the municipalities have turned me in to the agricultural purse. It seemed that above the land tax, it was not the agricultural portfolio that was professional, but the Ministry of National Economy that dealt with this issue. Who decides on professional matters? Why doesn't the professional position of the agricultural portfolio matter in such a case? In the LMP, we didn't say it was a devil thing, we said it was not a budget instrument. We have said that it could be suitable for property policy purposes, to reduce the large estates, if it were wisely sown over a certain hectare. Instead, everyone is hit in proportion again, and the small ones are obviously more affected by the same ratio in the affected settlements, because small estates have less income-generating capacity than the large ones. Obviously, we have seen the events of the past months, the professional position of the agricultural portfolio, as well as the positions of many opposition parties, were not an argument. I wonder why not. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-02-136	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-02-137	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't know, did you get the wrong person? 'Cause he kept talking about the agricultural purse, asking the Ministry of National Economy. So I think it would be better to ask the relevant wallet on this issue. Its question is whether there is a soil tax in Hungary. The answer is clearly no. No, especially since the government, the Parliament, has not adopted such legislation, nor will it be possible to introduce agricultural land tax in Hungary. However, it is true that Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes has been amended to ensure greater autonomy for local authorities. We have created an opportunity to increase its own tax revenue by any other tax type. During the previous term, I was a government secretary, and I have heard Andras Schiffer talk about the need to give the municipalities greater autonomy. Basically, we have now fulfilled András Schiffer's request with this amendment of the law. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Since this increased the right of municipalities to levy taxes, their right to collect taxes has been increased, and the law calls this tax a municipal tax. Each municipality will decide whether or not it needs additional income, additional tax and, if so, what it will impose at all. I think that a government, a Parliament, must respect the right to decide on local governments, and this tax amendment means nothing but the broadening of municipal tax laws. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-02-139	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is quite surprising, isn't it, that he openly acknowledges that the government is unable to finance the tasks of the municipalities and that they can cast a rightful free face if their minimum duties are to be fulfilled. Normative support will be provided for funding such as, say, the mayor's allowance, along with a number of other issues. And after they can't have the resources for the basic operation, they're giving them the right to tax anything. This is not in the interest of the municipalities, but in the interest of the government to wash its hands and to shift its responsibility to the municipalities. The question of whether there is a farmland tax in Hungary is obviously possible to argue here, it would be interesting in Parliament, but let's ask the farmers and landowners of those 11 settlements if they think there is one. Let's go to Balmazújváros and see if they think there's a soil tax. Obviously, this response is unacceptable, since it continues to maintain that what the government cannot fulfil, which it cannot finance, creates the possibility of a free tribute for the municipalities. It's a shame! It would be good if my fellow Member Mr Schiffer's requests were implemented differently. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-02-140	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-02-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I understand, because the LMP, I don't know if there's a mayor in this country. [[Interview from Fidesz: There is one.]] or whether there is a majority in a body of representatives. Because if there were, you'd know what a municipal management responsibility is, what it is, that it's the responsibility of a body of representatives, a mayor. 'Cause, yeah, they know it right there. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] whether it is still possible to tax their own population, the population of the settlement, or not. I think that this right should be granted to all Hungarian governments, together with the responsibility and responsibility of the municipalities. This amendment of the law provides nothing more than for a municipality to decide whether to impose a new tax or to raise existing taxes or not. Believe me, the Hungarian authorities are responsible, adults, and, you know, unlike you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-142	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Fellow Members! There's no room for dialogue. Please, let's keep this to ourselves. Dear Parliament, István Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. Brussels is the enemy of Hungarian families? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Aradszki Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman István Németh Szilárd.
u2015-03-02-143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is well known to everyone that the second Orbán government set its main objective in 2010 to significantly reduce the burden on families. There was no other choice, since the numerous tax increases and rising prices during socialist-free democrat governments have seriously weakened both Hungarian households and Hungarian businesses. In order not for us Hungarians to pay for Europe's most expensive residential energy, the Hungarian government froze the rents as a first step, and then committed itself to a full, multi-stage reduction. However, the reduction of the rent was not good for everyone, for whom it was particularly painful; for the multinational domestic leaders, Brussels bureaucrats, and for the leaders of foreign parent companies who were selling luxury goods to them. It was clear to them that we were facing a difficult fight, since the possibility of saving the former, some 1060 billion extra profit, had once and for all ceased to exist, which they could not give up. That is why Brussels has sent a warning letter to Hungary several times, and we are experiencing it now, because the so-called pilot procedure that was launched against us about a year and a half ago in the summer of 2013 has now been fully in the air. We find it outrageous that, although indirectly, Brussels continues - I would like to stress - and now it is very specific to attack the Hungarian families and, through this, the reduction of the rent. However, in all the reports, everyone stressed that this recent attack in Brussels was in no way affecting the reduction of costs or domestic prices. I therefore ask with great respect the Secretary of State whether this recent attack is a threat to Hungarian families and to the savings of Hungarian households. [[Novák Előd: No decrease, time's up.]]
u2015-03-02-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki, who will answer the question.
u2015-03-02-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the government has done a great deal to bring about a reduction in household rent. It has made and applied the legislation that underpins this. [[The First of Novak: You can see it.]] As a result, thanks to the government's measure, the family remained at HUF 1000 billion, and consumers have been able to live more easily in recent years. There is no doubt that the European Commission regularly monitors the proper adaptation of legislation in the domestic legal order. It is conducting investigations in this regard, and last time it did send a letter to the Ministry of National Development, indicating that it will continue with Spain, France, Germany and Italy the procedure it had started and expect us to respond to whether we comply with the third energy package in the European Union and whether Hungarian legislation is fit to implement the provision of the Energy Union Package. [[16.40]] Undoubtedly, there are issues in this regard that may threaten the achievements and results of the reduction of the rent. I should like to point out, Mr President, that you are not eating the porridge as hot as it is indicated by the Commissioner responsible for the EU, Mr Cañete, that before any decision, you also wish to conduct expert consultations with Hungary before any action is taken. I would like to inform Mr President that we will do everything in our expert discussions to ensure that the benefits of the reduction are maintained in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-146	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, in return.
u2015-03-02-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I could also say that, on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fractional association, we expect the government to do everything possible to maintain and protect the reduction of the rent. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including the Foreman of Novak: Not in such a fight! This isn't the wrestling alliance! The president's ringing the bell.]] For us it is quite clear from the latest figures, based on the Eurostat data of January 2015, that the Hungarian families paid the highest gas price in Europe, and the second most money for electricity, in terms of capital cities, we are now saying that the price of domestic gas and electricity is cheaper only in Bucharest. So the goal that we have set ourselves has been achieved, the reduction of the rent has protected the Hungarian families. I would ask once again that the government stand up in full for the reduction of the rent, even against the bureaucrats in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-148	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-149	Honourable Congressman, In recent years, the Hungarian government has made a strong effort to bring about a reduction in public debt. However, this process cannot be taken out of the implementation of the energy strategy, nor can it be taken out of the debates and dilemmas that stand before the country in relation to the so-called Energy Union, because our fundamental goal - and not only for the population, but also for industry - is to ensure the price of energy for the citizens of Hungary and the industry and economic operators of Hungary at competitive and affordable prices. In this respect, we are determined and will do everything in our power to ensure that these objectives can be achieved permanently in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös and István Gábor Harangozó, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How long will you protect the oligarchs of Fidesz against the family farmers in Hortobágy? It's an address. [[János Lázár: Zoltán Haughty, please. Where's the congressman? Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Organizing the campaign in Tapolca!]] Mr Gábor István Harangozó has the floor.
u2015-03-02-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister! Do you remember the words of József Ángyán? He talked about the fact that in the hands of mafia families, the country, the mafia families hold the agricultural purse. Prime Minister, it is well known that your clients, the 12 stolen or stolen state economies, the old Fidesz large entrepreneurs and large owners are an important pillar of the rural power exercise of Fidesz based on vulnerability. Yet we thought that in the case of the land of Hortobágy, they would not be the chosen ones, that they would not be able to steal all the land, because you had just ordered Kehi's investigation of the Hortobágy abuses a year ago, and promised that they would not enter into a contract with anyone until this investigation was completed. The contracts have been concluded, we do not know about the investigation that has been concluded so far, but Kehi has carried out this investigation, has done a decent job, where it has been found that one third of those with whom contracts have been concluded have not been in conformity with the invitation to tender or have simply cheated. Companies were set up to pick up subsidies and thus take the land away from decent, locally-living families, and they came to these companies only so that they could bring the subsidies home. You promised me here in Parliament on 8 December that, at the latest on 31 January, you would have a final report, which was closed for internal debate, and you would be happy to inform me of its contents. Prime Minister, it's March now, we haven't been informed of anything, and in a month's time, we'd have to drive the animals to the pasture. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] And you still don't know who's gonna own the land, 'cause I'm guessing it's the unfairly landed one. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] As an abuse, the land's captivating cannot be the land, but must be the land of decent local farmers. Please state what you are doing to clarify the case.
u2015-03-02-152	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-02-153	Before I answer the specific issue, my honourable fellow Member, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we do not like to be lectured by the party of Communist billionaires on economic matters. [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] we do not like it if the party of the Green Barons, which, by the way, has worked for the last 20 years only to maintain the Great Estate System in Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We wouldn't want to see that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Like a god, like a tooth. As far as our economic policy is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have announced that 80% of small and medium-sized estates and 20% of large estates can be in Hungary; this is where we are going. As far as the specific case is concerned, as is known to the Member, the Government has instructed the Government Audit Office to examine the application procedure for the land leases in Hortobágy. The Audit Office has conducted the procedure, proposed amendments to the tenders, amendments to the whole tendering system, because it did not comply with the requirement of transparency on several points. Accordingly, the application scheme was amended by the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as the specific cases are concerned, there is a difference of opinion between Kehi and the Ministry. I instructed them, and I informed you here in Parliament that these debates would be closed by 31 January. This happened. The successful tenderers were required to undertake the conditions set out in the tender in the contract in the lease agreement concluded and to comply with the contract in full duration. In addition, it was found that contracts should be terminated in at least 14 cases. Now we are talking about the task of the board of Hortobágy National Park, in the case of applicants who did not comply with the terms of the tender, to terminate the contract and re-submit the property. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-154	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-02-155	Prime Minister, you have just made a very important statement [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Always does.]] found and repeated a very important fact from the Kehi report. You have acknowledged what we have been saying since this stretching ground application system has been going on, since we stated that this application system is not transparent, it has been designed to be abused and abused. Indeed, Kehi has also stated this and has therefore proposed the need for a new system of applications. But if that is true, not only in the case of Hortobágy, but in the case of the National Park of Bükk, in the case of all national parks [[Intercoms from the MSZP: That's right! That's right!]] In all the places where they've been stealing the land for years and playing it for the pals, Prime Minister, there are new applications to be put out. Now, I would ask you to instruct Mr Lazarus to conduct a new Kehi inspection at every contest on earth, and to take the land and give it to decent family farmers living on the ground. [[Intercoms from the MSZP: That's right! That's right. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-02-156	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder.
u2015-03-02-157	Hold your horses. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr President, you know that this is not a simple issue of law. Just to give you the example you just cited, Bükk National Park has been subject to numerous charges, investigations and prosecutions. What happened? In the first degree, all the defendants were acquitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-158	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister without a wallet for national policy: . Still, the government does not support the title of facilitating the participation of foreigners in elections. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. [[16.50]]
u2015-03-02-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister very much for finally responding personally to a question about national policy that he has been asked after five years, which I would also like to add because you represent the Government at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, you tend to lead the meetings of this very important body, where representatives of Hungarian organizations and Hungarian parties from abroad and the Hungarian government take part. The Hungarian Permanent Conference held its last meeting in November last year, and in the final declaration of the MÁÉRT, which you constantly refer to as an important document, which was adopted unanimously and unanimously by... [[Noise. Several pro-government representatives are leaving the meeting room.]] -published, paragraph 5 of the Final Declaration states: member organisations ask for steps to be taken to simplify the exercise of suffrage for voters living abroad, who have a Hungarian address, but also live in Hungary. The point is that in the previous reply, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister said that 10 million Hungarians live and work in Hungary, that is not entirely true, it is good if there are 9 million of us, at least 1 million Hungarians are missing from this country, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister, let us not go into why. The fact is that for hundreds of thousands of people who live permanently away from Hungary, the exercise of suffrage is quite difficult. You have acknowledged this, because, for example, in Western Europe, it is only possible to vote at the embassy in the capitals or in one or two major cities or consulates, which may be hundreds or even thousands of kilometres. All the parties present at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, including the ruling parties, the opposition, the foreigners and representatives of the government, agreed that this issue should be dealt with. Jobbik submitted a proposal for a resolution, a parliamentary proposal, which initiated the bringing of this issue to Parliament. We also wanted to make this clear in a Parliamentary resolution proposal and invite the Government to develop the relevant legislative amendments. This, however, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the governing parties did not support it at the Justice Committee meeting a week ago. I ask Mr Vice-Prime Minister whether they are in favour of facilitating the exercise of the right to vote by the parties concerned or not. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-160	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén.
u2015-03-02-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say, this debate and discussion took place at the end of the MÁÉRT, I believe, with the intensive participation of Gábor Vona and President András Schiffer. I note that Hungarian leaders from abroad have not responded to the question, but this is indeed an important question, and - for the sake of historical loyalty only - I have formulated the final sentence to which you refer. Obviously, this is a second issue of national policy, primarily a matter of electoral rights, in which I have no preconception, it is possible either way or in any way. There are two pillars that must be taken into account; one is the decision of the Constitutional Court. So far, the Constitutional Court has taken a decision saying that voting in a letter without a Hungarian address does not conflict with the Fundamental Law. By the way, some other questions, as far as I know, are in front of the Constitutional Court. The second is that the National Election Office, Ilona Pálffy, is working on these issues with regard to the technical conduct of the whole, and what fits into constitutionality and guarantees the purity of the elections, I am personally a partner in all simplifications. Allow me one more thought, Mr President: so here is the fact that, going back to the beginning, the main rule is that anyone who has a home address and casts two votes can deliver this in person. It was an additional rule that those who do not have a Hungarian residence permit to vote in the letter. The proposal that you have put forward actually makes a supplementary rule that is half the main rule. This is possible, only the constitutional aspects of this need to be considered, the technical feasibility of this must be considered again, and, above all, the need to guarantee the cleanliness of the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-02-163	Thank you very much for the not-so-easy answer, but I didn't get an answer after all, Deputy Prime Minister. So do you agree or do you disagree? The few in-house or precise proposals for decisions that we will be discussing soon, as we have brought to this House, you too must vote on this, of course, this can be amended. We have formulated this proposal to make it as general as possible, we have indicated the intention in it, and we would like the Parliament to express its intention to make the exercise of suffrage easier and easier for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians in some way. Deputy Prime Minister! A few minutes ago, the Prime Minister spoke about honoring Hungarian people who are forced to live and work away from Hungary for one reason or another. We ask nothing else of you, Deputy Prime Minister, from you, my fellow members of the Government, to appreciate these Hungarian people, for example, by ensuring that they can actually participate in the elections. This is what our proposal for a resolution is all about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The question is whether or not to support it, Deputy Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-164	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-02-165	Congressman, I'm not against it. There are constitutional issues that need to be answered. I can give you a pound of this, and if you help us, we'll thank you. [[István Szávay: We are open!]] Now I'm just going to say one thing: a policy issue that has been developed by law scientists, for example, a question that should be answered. If the National Assembly gives voters with a Hungarian address but who are abroad on the day of the vote the possibility of voting by letter, then it is necessary to ensure that they can exercise their right to vote even if they are still in the country before the day of the election. Thus, in the event of a letter vote, it should also be ensured that they can give up their vote on the letter at home. This gives rise to a number of abuses. So if we can solve these technical and principle issues, I'm a partner. A balance must be struck between the greatest possible facilitation and the unquestionable outcome of the elections. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-166	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. What does the government do to increase the reserve power of the countryside? It's an address. Mr Attila Móring has the floor.
u2015-03-02-167	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, The government aims to increase rural sustainability by the resources available to agriculture and agriculture in the coming years. More than half of the Hungarian population lives in the countryside, about 5 percent of the people employed work in agriculture. However, the physical qualities of agriculture would allow much more people to live well from the opportunities offered by the Hungarian soil. Two problems arise regularly in relation to agriculture, the solution of which is becoming increasingly urgent. One is that, with the help of the financial instruments of the creditors of agriculture and rural development, they can easily drive farmers towards indebtedness. Secondly, some farmers have managed to create a monopolistic situation, which is detrimental to the large majority of small and medium-sized farmers and also to rural communities where these producers create jobs and communities. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister with respect what measures the Ministry intends to contribute to increasing the number of people living in agriculture, what structures agricultural funding is expected to have, whether it will put small and medium-sized farmers first. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-168	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-02-169	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for asking. Mr Miklós Kis, Minister of State, who is, however, fighting in Brussels, as far as I know, for the adoption of the rural development programme. Let me try to give you the right answer instead. First of all, I would like to start by saying that it is clear to all my fellow Members in Hungary that in the last 25 years, a number of rural settlements have suffered severe social and economic losses, in several small settlements, in rural areas, in Northern Hungary or in the southern part of Baranya County or Somogy County, there is a huge emigration, the emptying of villages, and I could mention the social and economic problems that are inevitable. This is probably related to the fact that agriculture has significantly reduced its capacity to sustain, much fewer people are employed by agriculture today than in the,, or, the '80s or '90s. The proportion of people who live from official agriculture, the main occupation of agriculture, no longer reaches 300,000 people, which is quite desperate and worrying in a country with such a particularly good agricultural capacity as Hungary, if any. It is therefore our job to change the structure of the estate and to change the allocated support system to ensure that as many people as possible live from agriculture in order to ensure that the countryside can be maintained and that people do not have to migrate. [[17.00]] That is why we decided to reorganize the use of state land in an 80-20 percent ratio - 80 percent small, 20 percent large - and that is why we decided to reorganize the rural development subsidies allocated to this. They will receive two types of support: one is the ground-based support, where Hungary is explicitly winning in the period 2014-20, and the other is the 1200 billion rural development register, which is being reorganized at the moment, because at the end of last year, the European Commission has objected to the programme which, exceptionally, does not favour the main estates, but is trying to favour small estates and small settlements. If you don't mind, I'll be back in the next minute. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-170	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-02-171	Thank you very much. The government's series of measures and ideas, as socialist governments, which supported the socialist large plant, completely sucked the air away from the family economy, gave little room for small and medium-sized enterprises, concentrated the land estates in the hands of the green barons. Therefore, KDNP supports the government's actions and thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-172	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-03-02-173	Thank you very much. It is expected that the operational programme for rural development will be adopted by May with a budget of 1200 billion and 1300 billion, and that the first call for proposals will be launched, which will basically favour the small ones and will put the big ones at a disadvantage, deliberately, at a disadvantage. However, I would like to tell all my fellow Members that this will not be a simple procession, regardless of party standing. Imagine those who have been the winners of the tender system in the last seven years, and are operating on 35-40 thousand hectares in Hungary today. There's plenty of them! In Hungary, the number of enterprises over ten thousand hectares or the number of enterprises over five thousand hectares is huge and the number of enterprises is also large. At the moment, in Brussels and Budapest, they are close to the government and they are doing everything they can to ensure that in the tendering system - both on the ground-based and of course on the rural development side - they can preserve their former primacy and advantage, which I believe we will break together with all political parties and all political forces with good intentions, whether it be about Sándor Csányi or Lajos Simicska. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-174	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the Ministry of Human Resources want? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Ikotity to István:]] Yeah. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-03-02-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, recently spoke on a TV program about the fact that, when disadvantaged students are majority in school, they cannot be brought together with non-disadvantaged students, in such cases special additional services, additional conditions, more attention is needed.The Minister was thinking of settlements and schools where disadvantaged Roma students are majority, so they cannot be provided with integrated education, and a church or some minority self-government wants to take over these schools. In these cases, this is not a conscious or deliberate separation, it is a very serious problem, although there is no accurate information, since no survey of the extent of segregation has been carried out since 2010. This is why LMP has proposed to assess the situation through appropriate social research. So in these cases, the problem is the separation of Roma and non-Roma populations, and the families with better status move away from small settlements, where the disadvantaged remain the majority. Of course, education policy alone cannot solve these spatial social problems, but there is a serious responsibility for the current education management in order for Roma students who are studying in the municipal school of such areas, most disadvantaged, to have access to quality education and to improve their chances in such a situation. Therefore, we are asking in front of the public of Parliament - because we have already asked the question in writing twice and have not been answered - what new elements will be added to the current education policy, which improves the chances of disadvantaged students studying in segregation. Please answer the question. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-176	Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were asking what the EMMI wanted, weren't you? Well, in this matter, if that's what you're asking, we want all children, children from disadvantaged families and children from non-disadvantaged families to have the same education. For example, we have introduced compulsory kindergartens from three years, and we are making this mandatory, and even by withdrawing part of the family allowance, we would encourage families who do not pay attention to the kindergarten of the child, that the disadvantage that a child, say, suffers from growing up under more difficult circumstances, can be brought into the kindergarten, and that is where they get closer to those children who are being cared for, sent from carefully, better families to schools. So we want to help them from the age of three. And obviously, we are not thinking about where Roma or non-Roma children are, or, more frankly, where Roma or non-Gypsy children are at school, but where disadvantaged children are and where fewer disadvantaged children are. And where this is necessary because of territorial conditions or other determinations, there is obviously a need to pay particular attention to these schools. What exactly is the difference in pedagogical content is likely to be revealed during the consultation of the coming months, but we have already taken a lot of measures to help them exactly. You know that we have been able to help the very young children, i.e. children of almost an infant's age and their parents in the children's homes 114 In the Children's Chance program, 42 226 children were helped by reaching 40 percent of the children in the small regions. In 169 schools, we can help 3,100 underprivileged students. With the Travel Scholarship, the Travel to the High School, the Travel to the Graduate, the Travel to the Profession, the Travel to higher education with a scholarship [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We were able to help 14,000 students. These are measures that can help all disadvantaged children. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]]
u2015-03-02-179	Dear Secretary of State, That is also the problem with written questions: they do not answer the question. Minister Balog admits that if this whole story goes on like this, and I quote, as it has gone on, we will strengthen segregation. So even the Minister acknowledges that this is not good, and the quote I just read shows that they want something else, they will implement new elements. Once again, the only way to take over a school is to provide this and this additional service. What is this, and this, plus service? Minister Balog also said on this programme that the opposition is always mistrustful, always painting the devil on the wall, whatever comes, criticizes it. That is precisely why, because we do not see what they will be, there is no consultation; not only with the parties, there is no consultation with civil society organisations. If there were any common path to this, I am quite certain that the opposition would be much more open, there would certainly be a move forward, because, as has been said from the Minister's mouth, there is little, much more to be done at the moment.
u2015-03-02-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-02-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the subject of segregation, he mentions conciliation and building trust. Congressman, if you were to speak to the people who are experts in this area, they would have told you - but you are not speaking to them - that they have visited our ministry several times, that there is an anti-segregation round table, that the amendment of this round table has been added to the amendment of the National Public Education Act at the end of last year, that well has been put there, precisely because we are constantly in dialogue with these organisations. You may only be in dialogue with the Ökotárs Foundation - they weren't there at this meeting, though they might have had a financial framework for it - but there are also experts who do not necessarily seek to conduct a campaign against Hungary from the sources communicated by you or communicated by organisations related to you; there are professionals who want to help Hungary, not cause scandal, but want to help children of three years, children of six and fourteen years of age. Please hear the words of these professionals as well. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-182	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who is responsible for the disappearance of nearly HUF 100 billion? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On the sign of Péter Csizi:]] Yeah. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. [[17.10]]
u2015-03-02-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The more we look at them, the less we see what they do, the more we look at them. Dear Secretary of State, However you look at it, there's a hundred billion forints missing. We used to say that the DRB Bank lacks 100 billion forints. In fact, 100 billion HUF is missing at 110,000 clients of DRB Bank, including families, entrepreneurs and NGOs in Pécs. We know for a week that something is wrong with Buda-Cash, that Buda-Cash has managed with the money of other Hungarian people in Pécs, Baranya. It's interesting that we've known this fact for a week, even though Buda-Cash was checked five years ago. Buda-Cash is known to be a financial institution owned by direct friends and direct acquaintances of former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai. Interestingly, it was examined in the last days of the prime minister of Bajnai Gordon, in the final moments of the elections. At that time, the company's experts and owners could relax, knowing that for five years, after the next elections, they could sleep quietly, continue the same financial manipulations they had done until then, and that resulted in the fact that they could not account for HUF 100 billion. Dear Secretary of State, It's interesting, especially interesting, how they couldn't find anything at the checkup five years ago, while now on the first day MNB experts noticed the abuse. It would also be worth examining if Bajnai Gordon knew about the transaction. And on behalf of those involved, I have to ask where the money has gone, who have been enriched by the small investors' money - where has the cash gone from Buda-Cash? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-02-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, let's see the facts. On Monday of the last week, the Hungarian National Bank filed a complaint with the police about abuses at Buda-Cash Broker Zrt. due to abuse and suspicion of criminal offences. The investigation is going on, and it's obvious that the police will inform the public about the outcome of this. However, as Mr President has said, there are suspicious signs in the activities of the financial undertaking and in the work and activity affecting the four banks. Indeed, one is that, in the light of the 2010 elections, the said financial undertaking was checked and then closed in two weeks, and the signature was already signed with the new leader. It is also true that socialist governments have always made sure that these companies are not controlled during their eight-year government. The Fidesz government has passed the regulation with biannual monitoring; over eight years, it has been required that these undertakings should not actually be subject to specific inspections at times. And it's also a fact that the Bajnai government and Buda-Cash had personal access. Either they went from Buda-Cash to government, or when they had the outcome of the election, they went on government assignment to work for Buda-Cash. However, this moment has indeed come, the five years have passed, and the Hungarian National Bank has started the audit, and it has already been revealed on the first day that, unfortunately, there are serious abuses in the financial business and, to that end, in the four banks concerned.
u2015-03-02-186	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi in return.
u2015-03-02-187	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. As I mentioned, 110,000 customers are waiting for the investigation, and 110,000 clients want to know where their money went and who played, who gambled with their money. Among them, for example, is the largest housing association in the city of Pécs, which handles the daily affairs of 3,000 inhabitants. They had 160 million forints left at the bank. Or the largest and oldest sports organization in the city of Pécs, PVSK, also kept its savings and sports subsidies from corporate tax forints in its DRB bank account. They don't have 150 million forints. There are many victims of this case, so we are very soon waiting for the truth to come out and those responsible will be punished. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-02-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think there is complete agreement that those who have done this, those who have done this to 150,000 people, must answer. They have to answer criminally, and they have to answer to their assets. You cannot commit such a crime without punishment in Hungary. And there is also a legitimate need to compensate individuals, businesses, under the law, and although legislation does not give the government the power to do so, but of course also to the municipalities concerned. A working group was set up to assess the damage and take appropriate measures. Steps and measures have already been taken in this regard, which will be felt by the municipalities concerned in the days. I can tell Congressman that this working committee will meet again tomorrow, and the government will do everything in its power to ensure that the people concerned are brought out of this problem with the slightest disadvantage and damage. Thank you.
u2015-03-02-190	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:16 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work by negotiating a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the right of citizens residing abroad who are resident in Hungary to exercise their voting rights H/2148. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Farkas, on behalf of the Group, in a five-minute timeframe.
u2015-03-02-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I have to start with a technical matter, and I would like to point out to the Jobbik faction that we find it very wrong that, contrary to the previous term, when there was a real weight in the debate on the subject series, these were held before the entire House, after which there was a vote, now with the transition to a two-week meeting, and already in the previous semester, these debates were completely empty. Unfortunately, some Members have to debate the inclusion of very important proposals on the subject. Nevertheless, I trust that we can have a meaningful debate, which will influence tomorrow's vote. Which proposal are we talking about? On behalf of Jobbik's representatives, we have tabled a proposal for a decision: a proposal to facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of Hungarian residents residing abroad. As a prelude to this, it is important to know that at the 13th meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, on 20 November 2014 in Budapest, which has a very high rank, since the representatives of the government, Hungarian parties and foreign parties are taking part in it, it has adopted a racially significant closing statement, in which point 5, inter alia, on the proposal of Jobbik, the following sentence is stated:, Members' organisations are asking for steps to facilitate the exercise of voting rights for voters with a Hungarian address but living life abroad. *Why is this necessary, and why was there a unanimous consensus on this issue in this body? Not long to go back, last April elections proved in practice that there are very few foreign embassies or consulates where Hungarian citizens living abroad can cast their votes. [[17.20]] We know very well that hundreds of thousands, even half a million, can be estimated by the number of people who live abroad at the moment, partly because of coercion and partly because of other reasons, and in many cases they can exercise their right to vote only if they travel hundreds of miles to the consulate or embassy in the capital of that country, or if they need to do something in time that they cannot do. By the way, we have received a lot of specific complaints, not one, not two, but a lot of them, which have actually proved that this was the obstacle to the ability of our fellow countrymen abroad to cast their votes. There was a half an hour, an hour ago - Viktor Orbán also said - that we should appreciate them, appreciate these Hungarians, who are now partly forced, in our opinion, to live partly and mainly out of necessity abroad, and that would be a way of making it easier for them to vote, so that they can take advantage of their voting rights. We know very well that our Hungarian brothers across the border are able to take advantage of the possibility of voting in the letter, and in this way they can exercise their right to vote, and we would consider it very important to give this opportunity, or some other opportunity, to our Hungarian brothers and sisters whose permanent residence is in Hungary, but they are now living abroad. We would therefore like to ask you to support the inclusion of this proposal for a resolution in the subject series and to start a debate, to start a discussion on how this can be achieved. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, said that there is more debate on this, there is more debate on this, even at the level of the Constitutional Court. We know these things very well, and we know these debates, but let me draw attention to the temporal factor that we have already indicated at the end of 2013 that there is a problem, yes, there is a need for change here, and a year and a half since then, and the government has now come to this point that, at least at the word level, it shows willingness to see the problem, you also perceive that there is a need for action and that some level of consultation has been initiated; for now, it has not been referred to other parties, other factions, but to the Constitutional Court. We would like to ask you to support this proposal for a resolution in order to show our appreciation to these Hungarian compatriots in part, that they do, too, their word is important, because these people did not go abroad permanently, but in many cases only for a short period of time, for a year or two, and indeed, they would also like to interfere with the domestic political life, so that they can create a country that is attractive to them, where they are happy to come home. We therefore ask for support for this series of articles to give this signal, this appreciation to our fellow countrymen, and also to launch a consultation, to have an opportunity to talk about this problem here within the parliamentary framework, and this proposal for a resolution would be a very good opportunity. I trust you will support it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. In writing, no opposition was indicated in advance by the factions. An independent Member, Mr Péter Kónya, has applied in writing for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-03-02-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because I would like to express my support for, and I know, the presentation of our better fellow Members, because it was clear in the amendment of the electoral law that the Fidesz people modified the electoral law so that it would lean towards them, because there was no reason to distinguish between Hungarian citizens living across the border or those who received their citizenship and introduced a lighter electoral system for them. Many Hungarian economic refugees have not been able to exercise their suffrage in this way, as there are some cases where Hungary does not have an embassy in the country, they should have gone to another country to vote. But it was much more yelling and annoying that you, by amending the electoral law, had achieved that the soldiers or policemen who served for their country and the Hungarians abroad did not have the right to vote either. That is why I am ready to support the better proposal, and I hope that Parliament will also remedy this, and that they will indeed submit a legislative amendment that will allow our citizens with Hungarian addresses, but who live abroad, to exercise their voting rights in an easier way, as well as those soldiers, policemen or disaster defenders who are serving abroad, but who represent Hungary and the Hungarian population, to exercise their voting rights. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a speech in a normal time frame. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal. This debate must be conducted, and here it must be moved between Parliament's walls in order not to make such an unjustified distinction between those with a domestic address; otherwise, because of a misinterpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision, candidates with a domestic address are already suffering from discrimination. This should have been done before the 2014 parliamentary elections; these elections should not have been allowed to take place in this way, in such a deliberately misinterpreted procedural order. By the way, the Socialist Party indicated this at the time, but unfortunately, the government side deliberately refused to allow this. And I would also like to say here that the electoral system should not only be rethinked on this issue, but, as my fellow Member said earlier in his speech, there are other issues that show that this electoral system is not suitable for creating a proportionate representation, a fair electoral procedure, but there is absolutely a procedure that is taking place at the convenience of today's governing parties, and that the substantive law itself is creating an extremely disproportionate election result. We therefore support the inclusion of a series of subjects, a debate on this, an amendment to this, including the possibility of an electronic vote. I would add that there may be a lot of problems in this regard, so we have to be very careful, but it would be right if the whole electoral system were to be rethought in general. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, has asked for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-197	Thank you very much. Of the parliamentary parties, Jobbik was the first person to stand for the Hungarian citizenship and suffrage of Hungarians from abroad, starting in 2003. We are glad that this has been achieved, but we did not think that this would happen so unevenly, that it would be much easier for a foreign Hungarian to participate in the elections than for a Hungarian. The fact now, ladies and gentlemen, is that if a young person from Szeklerland and a young man from Hungary live together in a sublet, let us say, in a capital city in Scotland, then the fact is that anyone who has gone from Hungary must go to London to be able to take part in the election, while his fellow in Szeklerland and his roommate receive the package of letters in the mail. It's a completely nonsense, unwarranted difference, obviously. Of course, you are right, Deputy Prime Minister Semjén, to whom we have just discussed this issue in the context of an immediate question, that a number of constitutional and electoral issues should be discussed here; of course, we are open to this. But, fellow Members, that is not what this proposal is about! This is not a bill of tens of hundreds of pages trying to develop the possibilities of exercising suffrage. This proposal is about what we have tabled with my fellow Members, Gergely Farkas and Gábor Vona, that the declaration of intent adopted at the Permanent Conference of Hungary, where everyone has expressed their agreement to make it easier for these Hungarian citizens to participate in the elections, this declaration of intent, raising the closing statement to a higher level of public law, will be included in a Parliamentary resolution proposal, let us say that the Parliament agrees with this and invites the Government to submit amendments to this House. That's what this is about, nothing else. We can talk about any other constitutional issues later. Moreover, the proposal is quite general, but if you have this problem, you can even draw out how to create the favourable conditions for this exercise of suffrage. It is only a matter of the fact that your intention is to be expressed by the pro-government faction: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] we make it easier for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians to participate in the elections. We ask your support for this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's anyone else who wants to speak on behalf of the factions. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the author, Mr. Gergely Farkas... [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Congressman, to answer your representative. [[17 .30]]
u2015-03-02-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank you for your supporting contributions, but at the same time it is more talkative than ever that it was not enough for a single comment from the governing parties. The Deputy Prime Minister Semyen said that he was not opposed to this in a very political way. We know very well when you say this; he did not have the courage to state clearly in the position of the government that he did, because the support would mean that our proposal for a resolution should also be supported. He didn't say that either, and you didn't say anything, and I'm telling you again, it says more than anything, but it makes me sad. It saddens not only me, but I think that everyone who is affected by this issue is the hundreds of thousands of young people or less who have been forced abroad, thanks, among other things, to your governance. It is also worth thinking to you that with such an attitude, it is legitimate for many people to wonder whether you do not dare to ease this voting opportunity for these people because you know that these people would not support you with their vote. This, I think, may well be the case in this case, if you stand so on this issue, because it is possible that you may think so, as it is possible that indeed, those who have now been forced abroad have done so largely under your government, and therefore are unlikely to support you with your vote. At the same time, I think that it is indeed a national issue when it comes to overcoming party political interests. We will do the same, and we hope that you will change your opinion as soon as possible, even so soon that you can support this proposal in tomorrow's vote. I'm gonna ask some of the Fidesz Members present to take over their group leadership, and tomorrow morning, I'm gonna need your support for this series of articles. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi - independent - and another 34 Members have proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/2390 on the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi as rapporteur within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-02-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, When I presented this proposal to the Justice Committee a few days ago, I referred to a story that happened last week when a man killed his partner in Baranya County. Well, there's been another murder since then, in which a husband killed his wife and almost four-year-old child. We all know that the meaningless deaths of two women murdered last week are just the tip of the iceberg. Domestic murders do not happen by accident, but we know that they are preceded by long-term abuse, psychological and physical abuse for many years. Based on international experience and data from Hungarian aid organisations, we can say that in the last 12 months around 300-400 thousand cases of domestic abuse took place that would require serious, professional social, health, psychological and legal assistance from the Hungarian authorities. In December, I visited an institution, a secret safe house, where I met women and children on the run; it was obvious that they had suffered for many years before they decided to flee from their loved ones. The discussions showed that it was very difficult for them to persuade themselves to escape, the abusers are surrounded by lasting fear, and their trials continue even when they eventually leave the abusive environment. The stigma and incomprehensibility of official bodies follow their lives. Hundreds of thousands of women and children in Hungary are forced to endure abuse every day. Dear House, Luckily, it doesn't have to be like this anymore. For nearly two decades, violence against women and domestic violence has been on the agenda of European countries, and a year ago, within the framework of the Council of Europe, the Istanbul Convention on combating violence against women and domestic violence was concluded. This Convention makes it clear that non-violent life is a human right and that governments are responsible for ensuring this protection for their citizens. After the blind comondo scandal, the Hungarian government quickly signed this international agreement, but since then it has done nothing to ensure that it can actually enter into force in Hungary and protects hundreds of thousands of women and children from violence. This Convention clearly sets out the institutional arrangements for the government to set up in order to reduce domestic violence and make women and children safer. In December, I asked Minister Trócsányi about the situation, the state in which he was preparing for the implementation and ratification of the Convention, and then he told me that the preparations were taking place, but that there was no trace of exactly what was going on after orientation with civil society organisations and aid organisations. I therefore believe it is important that this proposal for a resolution should be made and that the Hungarian Parliament expresses its clear opinion that domestic violence is unacceptable in Hungary, as in other civilised countries. If this convention enters into force in Hungary, then the government must introduce campaign and enlightenment processes in order to ensure that everyone is aware that domestic violence is unacceptable in Hungary. Five or ten times more shelters have to stand up to protect those who can't take it anymore and flee their homes. Women would also know that they do not have to endure violence, and men would know that they cannot abuse their female mates. Training should be initiated by police, judges, prosecutors on how to deal with these matters in a civilised and human way, and, not least, abusers should be responsible for their actions. The adoption of my proposal for a decision would make it clear that this Parliament considers domestic violence unacceptable and puts pressure on the government to prioritise the lives of hundreds of thousands of women and children. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. I don't see any reason why they can't do that. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-03-02-202	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, No comments were made in advance by the factions and by the non-attached Members. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The Council of Europe Convention is the most comprehensive international convention to combat serious human rights violations. Its aim is zero tolerance against women and domestic violence, and it represents an important step forward in making Europe and the world outside Europe safer. The sad fact is that the government has long since done nothing to ratify this very important treaty. This is also interesting because we see the governing parties constantly talking about the sanctity of the family, about how important it is to ensure the safety of families and the safety of children. The ratification of this convention would be a very important step forward in this regard. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not only about the abuse of women, which is terrible in itself, but it is about children, little children whose mothers are being abused, and that is what children see when they grow up, which can have very serious consequences for them, and in many cases they are also unfortunately being abused. This convention is very important because its main elements are prevention, protection, law enforcement and monitoring. This can also mean a system of tools, infrastructure, financial support that can make law enforcement even more effective, and the good intentions that the law enforcement agencies, which the judges have in these procedures, during the detection process, can turn that kind of good intentions into very effective actions. That's why it's important. So I would ask you to support the inclusion of this series of objects, even because the birds told me that Antal Rogán, the leader of the Fidesz faction, would have initiated this several times, but unfortunately he stumbled in József Balogh's comondo and could not do so. [[17.40]] Since then, this poor comondo has died, so I think that all obstacles have been removed from the process of finally ratifying this agreement and bringing it into question. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, has spoken. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to Jobbik, this proposal is fragmented and makes an unjustified distinction between violence and violence, which is not justified in our view. In point 1, it says that women and children are victims, they are concerned, but in point 2, it is already primarily talking about the elimination of violence against women, and therefore it is not coherent with itself. It does not deal at all with the most widespread and brutal form of domestic violence, where victims are the most defenseless and innocent, and this is abortion. He does not mention at all that six million Hungarian children have not been able to be born in the last half century because they took his life in his fetal age. The Fundamental Law also states that conception should protect the life of the fetus. We also know from international surveys that unwanted pregnancies also lead to desired children. Surveys were carried out in the United States and the Czech Republic, where women who had previously planned to terminate their pregnancy were asked, but this was not done for various reasons or because they were denied it or changed themselves. The question of whether they were happy about the birth of their child was answered by yes, 95 percent of them said that they were. There are a very large proportion of those who said that they are also sorry that they even had the idea of interrupting their pregnancy. I think domestic violence in itself is an unfortunate term, but while we are talking about it, we should start with the most widespread, brutal form and protect the most defenseless, harmless fetal lives. We will therefore abstain from this vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-02-206	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Istanbul Convention is a very important document, as it defines binding tasks to effectively combat all forms of violence against women and domestic violence. It states that any form of violence against women is a very serious violation of human rights and that it is the duty of the State to protect women from violence affecting them. It sets out important steps to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators. Education, training, awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns and the media have a huge role to play in prevention through social thinking. Unfortunately, prevention programmes in Hungary are still in their infancy both in education and in training professionals and police officers. The role of the police cannot be emphasized enough. Yet, the case of Pécs videos shows that the attitude of law enforcement agencies is currently catastrophic. The police's victim-faulting behavior does not contribute to the prevention of violence, but also hinders its emergence. It is therefore necessary to provide regular training for the police with the involvement of professionals. It would also be necessary to train lawyers, judges, prosecutors and develop professional protocols for healthcare workers. There is also a need for immediate action in the area of victim protection. Our country is also failing to prosecute the perpetrators, the authorities only deal with violence when there is blood. Ladies and gentlemen, Action against violence against women will not be postponed. We therefore ask that you vote in favour of this proposal for a decision and that the ratification process of the Istanbul Convention be launched. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-03-02-208	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi says yes.]] I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-02-209	Thank you very much for the floor. The Istanbul Convention is the result of an international process of about 20 years, in which women around the world are exposed to systematic and continuous abuse throughout the world, including in Europe's most advanced countries. Hungary is, by the way, the most advanced region in the world, but the fact is that violence against women is also massive in Europe. It is no coincidence that the Council of Europe has established this treaty. This problem is so widespread worldwide, across Europe and across Hungary that it was absolutely justified to create a civilised and European solution in which governments are responsible for protecting women and children. This is what this proposal is about, the human right to a safe life on which this Convention is based. This proposal and the Istanbul Convention do not mention other types of human rights that may also be discussed. So when we talk about domestic violence, it is a very well-established international norm system, and it is certainly very justified that, like many other European countries, Hungary finally embraces this, as I said, basically a system of civilization and express its will that violence against women and children is intolerable in their homes. I ask you to support my proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-210	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen of the United States! The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the level of excise duty security follows a debate. János Lázár and L. Simon László, Fidesz, MEPs' own motion T/2801. Number 2 is available on the network. The Commission's report on the detailed debate is T/2801/3. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you if Mr László L. Simon wishes to speak. [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] The Secretary of State does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact from the government either. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás László, Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-02-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A long debate on the issue of excise security was reached at one of the last meetings and no amendments were tabled. So I think that everyone agrees with the amendment relating to the rate of excise duty security, i.e. the reduction in the rate of excise duty for other products from HUF 22 million to HUF 20 million by a 10% reduction. I ask this House to accept this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-02-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, has also applied for a speech in writing. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that the debate of this bill is getting bored, since it solved an internal conflict that developed within Fidesen at the beginning of the year with a hussar cut. However, let me remind you of this process and that, at the end of last year, a proposal was received under the so-called Financial Salad Act, which said that the author wanted to increase this excise security from HUF 22 million to HUF 150 million. We were already shouting and calling attention to the fact that after the restructuring and organizing of traffikmuty, tobacco wholesale, tobacco dolls, the so-called liquor dog is coming, because even one of the government's representatives indicated that 4-5 or 5-6 of the existing companies could survive, they would only be able to pay this rate of excise duty, HUF 150 million, or present it to the National Tax and Customs Office in a bank guarantee. [[17.50]] And see, if you look into it, these are the biggest liquor dealers in some way, or they're supplying them to businesses close to Fidesz. This government opinion also confirmed that small family businesses engaged in trade in certain specialized products would be absolutely impossible, so hundreds of families would have been in trouble and should have ceased this activity. Then Gergely Gulyás, vice-president of the Hungarian Parliament, noticed this problem, and presented an amendment to the Legislative Committee to set out a so-called taxation and barbar excise security in the bill, which would have required a lower level of excise security than possible turnover. And indeed, in the Legislative Committee, certain individuals gave various tips to the Chairman of the Legislative Committee about the extent to which this should take place. After all, this decision was taken on the committee. Then, at a next legislative committee meeting, where Gergely Gulyás was not there, Vice-President Balla led that meeting, and it was said from his mouth that a formal proposal had to be put to the vote by the Legislative Committee, he also ordered a break, and then handed out a new material in which, you see, by January, it turned out that the 150 million forints that had to be presented as collateral were again included. There was then a debate between the Prime Minister's Minister, János Lázár and Gergely Gulyás. We called it the Fidesz Corruption Home War, from which, after all, János Lázár came out with a hussar cut and presented this bill that at that time he would reduce this excise security to HUF 20 million, not to the original rate of HUF 22 million, but to HUF 10 percent lower. Obviously, this proposal and legislative amendment could be welcomed if we did not know the history and history of this. But allow me, although Vice-President Gulyás Gergely is not here, Mr President, I would like to thank him here for the fact that, thanks to his swordsmanship and his proposal, Hungarian entrepreneurs, who are dealing with a liquor dealership, are now in a better position. I'm glad he came out of this fight, and we don't have to argue about what kind of nearby liquor traders Fidesz will benefit from this business. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-215	Mr President, Dear House, If there were only so much lying before us that one of the authors tried to say here that the rate of excise duty security would decrease by 10 percent, then it would indeed be possible to arrange in two sentences that everyone would support it. But the situation is a little more complicated than that. We will support this because of small and medium-sized entities and, above all, family entities, whether directly or indirectly involved in this industry. Still, what happened here makes you feel very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, On the one hand, the fact that Fidesz-KDNP ventured completely unthinkingly to raise to 150 million items - or at least to try to do so for a thought experiment - is the burden that would indeed have put five or six large Fidesz companies in the hands of this whole segment. And it can be said that I do not agree with the suggestion of the MSZP in that the fact that the rate of excise security is now falling by 10 percent does not guarantee that this entire industry will not be in the hands of Fidesz's close groups of companies, merely creates the chance that others might enter this market, and we are not talking about five or six large companies, but a few dozen small ones in the long term. However, it can be said that the inconsiderate approach to this whole thing is to try a concept of going up from 22 million to 150, and now they are going down from 22 to 20, and they are performing this as a reduction, at least an interesting hussar cut, but it certainly proves that there is an incredible lack of thought in relation to certain government proposals, and this is not the first time we have seen this. When submissions were submitted in connection with the transaction fee, then they were amended when submissions were submitted and modified in land matters, but perhaps tax matters are the most typical in this area, so the tax policy of the government is the most untraceable. And quite amazingly many times, you took over government in 2010 with thirty-something tax types, and now we're heading towards 45, so in addition to the emergence of new tax types, continuing variation with the old ones will result in an economic environment and a farming environment, the result of which is the presentation before us. They'll throw in a multiple number, and then we'll get something, see how the market players react. Well, they reacted as they did, that even in-house war broke out with you because the proposal of János Lázár was not in a thank-you relationship with Gergely Gulyás. And you can see that your striped proposal has failed, and perhaps now we have a slightly closer, more entrepreneurial proposal, which will give you lessons, and I very much hope that you are still able to exercise your insight. But it would have been fair to introduce this whole amendment if they had said that they had tried, examined the situation, admitted that they had failed, exercised self-criticism - because you are able to make a mistake, by the way, big people can see that - and now, after they have corrected their error, they are putting a modified version on the table, on which they are asking for support from the opposition, because with a total population support, obviously, this market segment can function much better than if only two thirds forced their will on it again. So we have to say congratulations on their ability to practice self-criticism. It would be so much nicer to express that in words, and not only should we think about it, feel it, express it for you. Once again, for the survival and livelihood of Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian families, Jobbik will, of course, support this apparent relief. But in the long term, this makes sense if this whole business is not overtaken, and not only by not being in the hands of five or six large companies, but they do allow the small ones to live, allow other party members to live, and at all, economic operators who have not been connected to the network so far. So do not diversify the system in such a way that, eventually, in an oligopol situation, some great dictates and the little ones die or blend in. Therefore, the interests of Hungarian small entrepreneurs and medium-sized ones must be subject to all government actions, and the opposition can clearly only authorise them to do so. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-02-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have already said in the previous debate about this bill, it is the way in which this piece of legislation has been drawn up, the veterinary horse of fidesz legislation, the revenge of scraps, the many acts. For some reason, without preparation and coordination with those involved, someone has put forward a proposal that could have destroyed many traders. Then, when the mistake came to light, even though a fidesz congressman tried to fix it twice, they insisted on doing the wrong thing. The measure does not only damage the market, since wholesalers in quasi-monopolistic situations can raise prices, while a large number of jobs are lost in damaged ones, but also the budget is losing because of declining employment and fewer paying companies. Of course, it is also possible that the proposal was not an accident. We thought of that, too. A lobby group wanted to eliminate the competition with a smuggled paragraph. In this case, their insistence against common sense did not seem to be dilettantism, but much more serious. The Parliament did not put on the agenda the other amendment, which corrected the same error, which was tabled by Gergely Gulyás T/2520. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the LMP's view, the lane system in this proposal would be much better suited to the resolution of the situation. A higher excise security is justified than higher traffic because there is a higher risk of budgeting. [[18.00]] This proposal is voted in favour of the LMP's better absence, as it corrects a huge error, reducing excise security from 150 million to 20 million. At the same time, in addition to changing the level of security, we would like to draw the attention of honourable pro-government representatives once again to the fact that there are more problems with excise security. There are indications that checks on payments and the resulting sanctions are not being enforced. They don't make any rules if they can't enforce it. That is why we propose that less idea-like changes be made in the future to the sudden transformation of different areas and that more energy be used to comply with the existing rules, to enforce them and to operate the system. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-02-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-219	I'm a Member of Parliament.
u2015-03-02-220	As a pointer.
u2015-03-02-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow Members. However, I would like to make it clear that we are in the debate on the Commission report, and you have reiterated what you said in the general debate. There are rules in Parliament, you are ignoring these rules, and you are talking about something other than the subject of today's debate. Since there is virtually nothing in the Commission's report, you could have saved us half an hour of our lives so that your political lounges would not be repeated unnecessarily in Parliament. But if they've already done that, then I'm forced to answer a few things. I can tell my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, that he talked about all kinds of things from traffic to drinking dogs, and that global warming alone did not turn up among the problems. [[Dr. András Schiffer keeps interrupting.]] And he didn't put that on our shoulders. In any case, I would like to mention to my fellow Member that if, in fact, the accusation that we are part of a fidesz corruption internal war were true and rejected here, this would not have been the result, as is ultimately the case, of reducing the level of excise security, even unlike in previous years or even compared to previous years. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I commend to my fellow Members what Prime Minister said in the debate today, we strongly reject the fact that the socialist representatives protecting the various socialist large companies are either to adjust us here or to restore us here. Dear fellow Member, In any case, this proposal was tabled by Minister János Lázár and I, not by our fellow Member Gergely Gulyás. You thank Gergely Gulyás for what we have submitted, and what is about reducing the excise security from 22 to 20 million, and not the original proposal that we did not agree with. I do not understand why and what you are thanking me for, my honourable fellow Member. I can tell Dániel Z. Carpathian - if only it were to reduce excise duty, then it would be eligible - Mr. President, calm down, that is all that is in it. There's nothing else in it. That's what the bill says. What you're talking about is history, that's the past, that's politics. But the bill is a slick bill, and it contains enough to reduce the rate of excise security for liquor dealers to HUF 20 million. Congressman, read the bill, and you'll see it. What do you mean, "advised relief"? - Says Dániel Z. Carpathian. No, Congressman, this is a real relief, because you don't have to pay 22 but only 20, or you don't have to pay 150 million compared to the previous one, only 20. This is a real relief from the burden, my honourable fellow Member. And I can tell Mrs Schmuck that if the lane system had been better, then I would have liked to have tabled an amendment. Why didn't you draft an amendment and submit it? Then you could have had a real argument about what you're missing right now. My fellow Members have not tabled an amendment, and I do not understand what they are arguing for. It was a bill that could have been further differentiated. If you thought that the guarantee of a higher guarantee for a higher-income drink trader could be justified, this is an acceptable argument system, then you would have liked to have presented an alternative proposal that would have nuanced our proposal. The only thing I can say is that in this situation, one thing is certain: two pro-government representatives want to reduce the rate of excise security from 22 million to 20 million forints, and, thanks to God, the government, as we heard from Tállai State Secretary last time, and as we have just heard from our fellow Member Tamás László, the parliamentary party factions support it. I hope that my fellow Members will not come out of this tomorrow's vote, and they will indeed support this sensible and correct proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the debate on the Commission's reports on the investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and on the amendment of certain laws in this regard, and the summary amendment proposal follows. The submission is T/2250. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report of the Economic Committee as designated committee T/2250/11. and the report of the related Committee on Enterprise Development T/2250/12. was given to them. I would like to inform you that no Commission amendment has been tabled, but the Government has initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee. The summarised amendment proposal is T/250/16. and the summary report is T/250/17. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. They have a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor first, within a maximum of eight minutes, to Tuzson Bence, the rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor.
u2015-03-02-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The meeting of the Committee was held on 27 February 2015, where T/2550 was actually discussed. Bill No.3 on Paks, the investment in Paks, and the maintenance of the capacity of the nuclear power plant. The Committee adopted 22 yes and 10 non-voting amendments and the summary report. The Committee itself submitted a proposal for a summary amendment and adopted its own amendment at this meeting, which includes partly technical and partly substantive amendments. In fact, the committee meeting was a kind of continuation of the general debate, where everyone expressed their views, and there were parts where there was a serious debate at the committee meeting on the various positions. I myself explained at the committee's meeting that this bill, maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, is primarily about energy security and maintaining energy security. After all, we need to know that in the next period, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will complete its operation in some form, that the various blocks will have to be stopped gradually, and that in order to maintain or increase the level of energy production in Hungary, it is absolutely necessary to create two new blocks in Paks. This is also important because other plants in Hungary, which are not nuclear power plants, are also tired and worn out, so it is also necessary to talk about their capacity replacement. The important question is that if we increase the capacity of the nuclear power plant and create two new blocks, there will also be a transitional period when the nuclear power plant is able to operate at full capacity, so it will be able to produce a huge amount of energy. In Hungary, maintaining the country's competitiveness requires the operation of the nuclear power plant, because we need cheap energy. There is cheap energy in Hungary if production is also on the side of nuclear energy, on the other hand - and this is not a question, as some Members say, but rather a question of green energy - must also work. More and more of this technology needs to be involved. If, today, we can say that these technologies are not sufficiently advanced or very expensive, but they will probably fall gradually over the next period, so that they can close. Thus, the two together may be able to meet the growing energy demand in Hungary in some form. It is a very important issue, and we need to ensure that security issues are maintained in Hungary, because in the expansion of a nuclear power plant, however, we are talking about nuclear energy, a dangerous technology in the sense that it is even at risk of terrorism. [[18.10]] Accordingly, safety measures should be taken and safety conditions should be established that are capable of ensuring safe operation in the long term. Accordingly, the Committee dealt with certain provisions in its amendment, including the encryption of certain data, and proposed to encrypt certain data from this contract for 30 years and some of these technical data. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at present, there is a proposal and it is about allowing the encryption of data only in certain segments, which can be classified primarily on grounds of national security or on copyright. We are talking about dangerous technology, obviously it doesn't matter if such a nuclear power plant works, what are the safety points of this nuclear power plant that can be seriously damaged by attacking people. A government, a responsible government, a responsible Parliament and a responsible Member of Parliament must also take particular care to ensure that a power plant is implemented in Hungary with the technology and means that the safety of people can be guaranteed. Accordingly, it is necessary that certain procedures, which are not technical data, but are included in the contract - whether transport routes or any related issue - or technical data, can be kept secret in order to preserve the safety of the people and ensure that the Hungarian people are safe later. The duration of such a nuclear power plant is more than 15 years, and it is likely to be more than 30 years, so we proposed, at the committee's meeting, to encrypt these data for as long as possible, because during the period of operation of the nuclear power plant, they must be ensured and kept confidential. Of course, when such a decision is made, and when we look at this environment, it is worth looking at what international experience is, and how different European countries apply these encryption rules, and to what extent these encryption rules are in order to ensure that people's safety can be maintained at a later stage. It is worth looking at the French example. In France, where the regulations are most extensive - not by accident, as there is a very high number of nuclear power plants - a similar encryption system has been developed. [[Dr. András Schiffer: There is also the Finnish example.]] Or even the Finnish example, Finland, is very similar to the structure in which this nuclear power plant is implemented, and accordingly there is a 30-year encryption period for such a nuclear power plant, I say once again, only in relation to data that is specifically technical data related to the safety of the nuclear power plant and which is a matter of national security, or on the other side, data that raises not technical data but the same security issues, which may be procedural in relation to a nuclear power plant, transport routes and similar things. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the lawyers' fees?]] Of course, the data that is not included in this circle cannot be encrypted, because in the end it will be judged by the court. If someone thinks that certain data is otherwise unencrypted, then they can go to court. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What court?]] and, accordingly, it may be requested to determine whether or not these data may be encrypted. Accordingly, the committee has taken its decision and asks the Honourable Parliament to support its summary report and its summary amendment in this form, as the committee has accepted. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Committee's minority opinion will be presented by three speakers within a total of 7 minutes' time frame. I believe that the three opposition Members have agreed on how many minutes they will give their opinion, and I would like to ask Mr Schiffer, in particular, to spare him from yelling and not to disturb the speakers. Thank you very much. You'll have a chance when I give you the floor. First, Bertalan Tóth gives his opinion, the position of the faction.
u2015-03-02-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The committee discussed three proposals on the ominous Legislative Committee, not just one, two of which were proposed by the MSZP. One was about not encrypting any data that Hungarians could learn about the Paks investment; you voted against it. Our second proposal was not to exclude the investment in Paks from the scope of the Public Procurement Act; this was voted down by the majority of the governor, Fidesz. The third item on the agenda, the third amendment, was the one on which my fellow Member Mr Tuzson gave an amazing explanation. In our view, this 30-year-old encryption makes the investment in Paks a hotbed of corruption, which is because you have also been embarrassed to avoid the term business data - business data. You've been talking about technical data, transportation routes, everything else, but you've left business data out of your comment. This concerns what subcontractors will operate here, who will be the main contractor, what data, what numbers will be included in these contracts. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members and your attention to one more thing. The court isn't the data provider. So you're already predicting that you're going to deny the request for data about the investment, because you don't have to go to the court first, you have to go to the investor who owns the data. You immediately argue that you refuse to do this on grounds of national security or on grounds of intellectual property protection, and then the data seeker can enforce it in court, that is the wrong attitude. Once again, this will make the investment a hotbed for corruption, and we will not be able to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-02-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-03-02-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Hungary Movement to Paks II, the expansion of Paks, I think he was completely responsible for it. We have repeatedly said here that we understand the Government's arguments, we understand the arguments of Fidesz, we take into account Hungary's energy interests and opportunities, and that is why we support this enlargement, also with regard to energy security. But we also told him how we supported him. We support the fact that we really believe that this investment is necessary, but - we have stated here several times and I declare it now - only in the event that this investment takes place in full public, if this investment is carried out with the broadest possible involvement of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and this includes making the region as profitable as possible. The Paks II Treaty allows for a minimum of 40 percent of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to be employed in this area. We also drew the government's attention to this emphasis, because it is not the case that someone from the street will come in and participate in the investment, and start preparing these small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, we find that the government does not deal with this, it does not prepare small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, but rather tries to encrypt, as Bence Tuzson said, it allows encryption in certain segments. Let's get this straight, these particular segments are everything, so you're encrypting everything right now. There may be a reference here to the intellectual product and the fight against terrorism, but that sounds about like when the oil bleach was encrypted by you. It can also be said that it was the intellectual product of the criminals who robbed billions, and it can be said that there may still be some of these oil reservoirs buried somewhere in the Great Plain or somewhere in the county of Bács-Kiskun, and that the terrorists would not accidentally find it and blow it up in the name of terrorism; this is about that. What I'm saying is, clearly, we're not willing to be partners in the fact that you're encrypting the business. He is clearly involved in this, because if you read it, you are talking about encrypting business and technical data. Business and technical data, so the business is being encrypted at the moment. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary refuses to participate in this. We continue to support Paks II. expand it, but not by such secret methods, and not by trying to make it your own oligarchs. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-02-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's been 4 minutes 40 seconds, so you have 7 minutes for Mr. András Schiffer.
u2015-03-02-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The situation is that Article 39 of the Fundamental Law provides that: §2 of the Act provides that all economic operators must be accountable to the public with public funds, provide for transparency in respect of national assets, and in addition, elsewhere, the Fundamental Law declares freedom of information. If we go further, Hungary is the 2001 LXXXI. By law, it declared the Aarhus Convention, in which it clearly committed itself to a narrow interpretation of the restrictive reasons for the provision of information in respect of environmental information. [[18.20]] Unbroken constitutional practice also provides for the principle of proportionality of necessity. Compared to this, the 2009 CVI on state assets. Act 5. §2 of the Act also provides that the public interest must be public about the management of public assets, so that the data on business, including intellectual property, may limit the ability to know the data. If we compare these laws, international conventions and Fundamental Law, this shows that any restriction must be limited to the necessary and proportionate measure. Compared to this, and contrary to what we have heard here from Congressman Tuzson, the proposal says that all the business and technical data relating to the whole Paks Pact is confidential for 30 years and here refer to national security reasons and intellectual property rights. Compared to this, I would also like to point out that under the environmental law, which also serves the enforcement of a constitutional fundamental right, the right to intellectual property cannot restrict access to environmental information. So neither the principle of necessity-proportionality is respected, so it is in breach of the Aarhus Convention, in this form this provision, and there is also a conflict in the Hungarian legal system that seriously threatens the exercise of the right to freedom of information and the right to a healthy environment, and the preservation of the interests of the future generation. Therefore, if this is accepted by Parliament, I think [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that there will be enough Members in this House to conclude this shameful thief pact at the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Mr. András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, if you'd like to speak. [[Dr. András Aradski nodds.]] It says yes. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a period of 10 minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A very interesting but in many ways misleading debate took place at the Legislative Committee meeting, and I see that it continues here. I would ask my fellow opposition Members to tell us what is a proportionate and necessary restriction on the provision of information in the investment in capacity building in Paks. [[György Szilágyi: Lajos Kepli will tell you.]] A proportionate and necessary restriction is included in the bill. All he says is that it can be used to protect national security and intellectual property rights. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Anything?]] access to technical and business information as data of general interest. It follows, my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, that his statement - I have literally described just now - is that data that is known to the Hungarian people will not be encrypted, and that is what the proposal is about, my fellow Members. Data that cannot be known to Hungarians can not be made public, because they may contain national security risks and, of course, may harm the enforcement of intellectual property rights. If we are discussing this, fellow Members, I can say that we are talking about one thing. Is there a national security interest in the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? [[György Szilágyi: Van.]] Yeah. Do we have to defend this national security interest by virtue of the law? [[György Szilágyi: Yes.]] Yeah. What does this bill do? It says expressis verbis that there are two reasons for ordering encryption, as opposed to the relevant section of freedom of information, where it lists five or six reasons, two reasons: one is a matter of national security and the other is a question of legitimate protection for intellectual property. [[György Szilágyi: Only a lawyer's contract is not intellectual property.]] Of course, the Aarhus Convention, which was announced in 2001 by LXXXI. It also states that the request for environmental information may be rejected in so far as disclosure of information would adversely affect, inter alia, international relations, defence, public security, the confidentiality of commercial and industrial information. That's what the Aarhus Convention says. We will do nothing more, honourable Members, as we limit the use of data of general interest to certain business and technical reasons in accordance with constitutional, national security, environmental and all other international treaties. I think you should agree with that. I think it is not that you do not want to have restrictions on access to data of general interest for reasons of national security. [[György Szilágyi: But not everything!]] You don't want a happy-happy agent of any hostile interest, outside power to have access to any information. You do not want this, because you are Hungarian people and Hungarian patriots. What you are doing now is deliberately, misinterpretably, going into a political battle, saying that this proposal is supposed to impose full encryption at the moment. The bill clearly states that the encryption is not complete, but that the legitimate defence situation, legitimate national security interest, is highlighted and supported in the bill, which is in the interest of all of us. On this basis, I thank the Legislative Committee very much for its work, as it presented a comprehensive amendment to the bill, which included clarification of interpretation and technical clarification, and this summarised proposal is in line with the government's position. Therefore, in view of all of this, the summarised amendment will also be supported during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-02-232	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 5 minutes and 10 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated committee, as well as by the associated committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, namely Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Member Fidesz.
u2015-03-02-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what has been said so far - and perhaps we all agree on that - is an important proposal that will determine the energy security of the coming decades. The T/2250. Proposal for a Law on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending certain laws in this regard, let's face it, rightly so far, has triggered a number of debates, in line with the importance and future impact of the subject. Several amendments tabled by the opposition and one amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee were submitted to the bill. However, before I get to these, allow me to remind you once again of the main elements of the draft in order to clarify the misunderstandings. As part of the project law, the proposal includes provisions on investment and therefore pays particular attention to the provisions governing civil law, employment and access to data. The second, the larger part, is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. It contains amendments to and related amendments to the Law on Construction and National Property Law. The legislative intention is that, following the installation of the recovered 5th and 6th nuclear power plant blocks, the two companies, Paks I. Zrt. and the Paks II. Zrt. A single State-owned company shall carry out the tasks related to the investment through its merger. It is an important element of the project law of the bill that a business and a sub-contract can only be concluded by an entity that has a so-called site security certificate. [[18.30]] For the sake of a more flexible procedure, the National Atomic Energy Office will also carry out the tasks of the building authority. It is also intended to improve efficiency by amending the new sections of the Nuclear Power Act on personal matters. It is thus apparent that the Atomic Energy Office will be given greater freedom of choice, but, of course, it will also have more responsibility and, indeed, it will have to act. The proposal will also streamline the radiosanitary tasks previously over-divided and with multiple malfunctions. Therefore, the bill proposes the precise definition of radiation health and radiation protection tasks and the integration of radiation protection tasks with the Atomic Energy Office. Finally, the bill amends the rules of the nuclear law on radioactive waste storage and temporary storage of radioactive waste. So, as you can see, this is a proposal that legally embeds this significant investment. As previously stressed by the ruling party, more than 6,000 of the 9000 megawatts of electricity produced in our country are lost around 2032-36, as the technologies and power plants that produce it become obsolete. So we have to produce at least 7000 megawatts of capacity, but still we only produce about 30 percent of the country's needs with Paks. I would like to note in brackets that what the socialists said in the general debate is not true, i.e. that there is no capacity expansion. Pakson certainly does, and it is needed anyway, and it is also necessary because it is projected that the electricity consumption of Hungarian society will continue to increase at the same time. Here are some comments on the amendment. A total of eight opposition amendments were tabled at the normal stage. To a large extent, they propose abolishing the encryption of investment-related agreements and data. These proposals were not supported by the relevant Economic Committee and are therefore not subject to the summarised amendment. On Friday, the Legislative Committee submitted another Commission amendment extending the period of encryption for certain investment data from 15 to 30 years, while clarifying the scope of data that can be encrypted. I see that the opposition intends to demonise this proposal in relation to this project. At all costs, they want to prove that the encryption itself is a cover-up of corruption intentions. [[Interview from the benches of LMP and Jobbik: That's right! That's right!]] Of course, somewhere it is understandable that the opposition is caught at every opportunity to attack the government and government intentions. [[Deterioration from LMP and Jobbik benches.]] It is also understandable that it is easy to ride the word "encryption" politically, because there are a lot of things you can see if you want to explain something in it without any foundation. [[Intercoms from the LMP and Jobbik benches.]] On the one hand, however, I would encourage representatives of opposition parties not to abuse their position that they do not have the direct responsibility for the decision on this issue. The reason why they should not be irresponsible is because the investment is all the more important and important, we can say that it is of particular importance for our future, rather than bringing the debate down to such a frivolous level with the intention of discrediting it. On the other hand, I would like to ask the opposition parties to read exactly what is in the TAB proposal. First of all, I would like to state that there is no general encryption. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No?]] Secondly, I would like to point out that there is no restriction on environmental data in the proposal. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] So I would like to reassure everyone, in particular my fellow Members of the LMP, that if you really do... (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.) But I know, dear fellow Member, I know what you're talking about. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] Maybe you don't know what I'm talking about. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you really are concerned about the environment, you can ask for information about this. What is covered by encryption is business and technical data, so they are not really recognised as data of public interest, but they must be taken into account by the Act on the right of information and self-determination. So I would stress that it may be about encrypting data that is issued in breach of national security interests or protecting intellectual property. This concerns, in particular, business and technical data and related decisions. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the 2014 II Convention on Nuclear Cooperation between Hungary and Russia was published. According to Article 3 (6) of the Act No.3:. The Russian designated organisation shall carry out procurement procedures in accordance with the principles and general requirements of transparency, including the prior publication of the invitation to tender in the EU in English. Additional procurement requirements may be provided for in implementing agreements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Overall, this amendment therefore does not limit access to data more than has been the case so far and is necessary from a national security point of view. In fact, the proposal will facilitate the practice of litigation so far. And the law itself promotes Paks II. more flexible and faster implementation of the project. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment and the Commission report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP. Intercom from the LMP: Bravo!]]
u2015-03-02-234	Thank you, Congressman Cherry. The next announced speaker was Mr Bertalan Tóth, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-02-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have listened to the rather serious arguments here, which have already failed, that the so-called implementation agreements that you have signed - if I remember correctly, perhaps three of them - are considered national classified data, and these are no longer known to the Hungarian people. And neither do I, because I asked for these agreements, and the answer to that is that a State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office has already declared this to be national classified data. It is not a matter of national security, it is not a matter of protecting intellectual property; it is simply not known as classified data. I would just like to point out, as I indicated in the debate at the Legislative Committee, that there is a double regulation here, which, I think, contains quite a serious conflict, because under the info law, which is classified data, it is not possible to know in itself, while this draft legislation, which we are going to vote on tomorrow and we are debating today, means a different type of encryption of data. Therefore, this argument already comes to light that implementation agreements do not allow us to know anything, not even data that, in the absence of a national security interest, can be made public or does not violate the protection of intellectual property. Secondly, this proposal, which was finally adopted by the Legislative Committee, extends this encryption to previous feasibility studies, which you have not published, and indeed there was a court procedure where the court said they did not exist. Well, it looks like they do exist, because you're now encrypting them with this legislation, so we're not gonna know for 30 years what kind of calculations the secret Orbán-Putin pact concluded with Paks II is based on, what kind of preliminary investigations it's based on. I would also like to point out that the legislation itself transcends certain terms and certain concepts from these implementation agreements. So you, fellow Members, decide on a piece of legislation that you do not know the details of it, because this implementation agreement is already encrypted, national classified data. So the conceptual system that is in this legislation is completely unknown to us, since it comes from material that you have already classified. It also slightly contradicts your argument, as I have already stated in the minority opinion, that you refer to the court as a matter of urgency - and so did the Secretary of State at the committee meeting, and my fellow Member, Bence Tuzson - because it is already foreseen here that no data request from anyone will be given to the investment organisation, that everyone can go to the court and enforce their rights in court; obviously much more limited, as you, in our understanding, do not allow them to be data of public interest. [[18.40]] So the legislation is about the various contracts in the implementation agreement, the agreement, from which data and information will come - for example, how much a major contractor will undertake the investment, how much a contractor will deliver to a main contractor - and these are not general data, and what of these data is not what it is in the interest of national security, which is not because of the protection of intellectual property. You will quickly write back to the data seeker that they are not public, then they can go to the court and argue, so the burden of proof will be on the data seeker, and according to the law, you will only have to use these two arguments. The other question here is why at the current Paks Nuclear Power Plant there are no such encryption rules. So why aren't the various suppliers that are now maintaining such extensive encryption? So, if such legislation does not exist at the current nuclear power plant, then why do you have to create such legislation at the new nuclear power plant? Moreover, what I would like to emphasise once again: there are some business figures that, I think - and I referred to this in my previous comment - belong to the Hungarian people, because those thousands of billions of Russian loans will have to be paid into the budget by the Hungarian people in the form of taxes, and the state will repay the loan to Russia from them. So they do have a right and we have a right to know these business data. However, I would like to emphasise once again - as I said in the debate on the committee - that, yes, there are technical data and technological data that, for example, because of terrorist threats, as you have said, it is necessary to be encrypted. Well, there's the encryption process, there's legislation for that, it could be done there, there's no need for general regulation to do that. So once again, I would like to argue that the business data should be made available, and I would like to draw your attention, for the last time, to the fact that double regulation is being applied, which is a conflict: if certain data have already been certified, this legislative provision should not apply, so it raises constitutional concerns. As I mentioned in the drafting of the minority opinion, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction does not support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-236	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-03-02-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary - if you like it - has supported, since its establishment, since 2003, but since it has been in parliament, it has been traceable and demonstrably supported every bill and initiative that has been about the implementation of the extension of operational time, or expansion, for the application of domestic nuclear energy. Until this moment, until now, we have been consistent with this, and we will continue to be consistent, because our main motto in 2010 was that when we entered the Hungarian Parliament, we will support any proposal that serves national interests and which serves the interests of Hungary, whoever is to spread it, even if it comes from the hoofed devil himself or even from Ferenc Gyurcsány, we will support it. The other part of the question is that this proposal, which is now before Parliament, is no longer about this, is no longer about the peaceful use of domestic nuclear energy, but has gone further. You have sensed, I mean, the government has sensed the smell of money in this, the potential of ten billion euros, they have been given blood, and they have been given 30 years of encryption, different smells of doodle in the air, and they have heard more and more wild ideas about the investment that Jobbik can no longer assist, because we have supported this primarily from the point of view of our country's energy security, and so far not to give room and space to various corruption-suspect transactions. These are clearly now, so to speak, in the pantry, becoming more and more obvious. From now on, we will not, nor will we wish to assist, this bill or any bill that goes on this path. In the framework of a press conference, press release - I have published a press release with my colleague Mr Gábor Staudt on this subject - that if you think that in a certain area, on a certain subject, there is a need for encryption, for up to thirty years of encryption, and that is indeed justified, then let a Gremium that is truly empowered to do so, such as the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, what those topics are; because I do not believe, and I will not be able to prove to me that the working fees of subcontractors or lawyers are information that should be encrypted for 30 years, and which is for reasons of national security of nuclear safety, because this is simply not true. Again, the amount of EUR 10 billion or EUR 12 billion is the sum of the total investment, above the provision or the provision of its share of the Hungarian supplier's share, an amount that opens up new channels of corruption. And in addition to continuing to support the investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, we will continue to stand by it in principle, and we will not be able to support this bill in any way, and we will vote against it, because this bill is going in the wrong direction. From now on, we must say that if Jobbik comes to the government in 2018 or when the time comes, it will be implemented in its own non-corruption, clean, transparent way, and it will continue to invest what the government is now starting, but in this way, we cannot assist in any form whatsoever in the present way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-238	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2015-03-02-239	Thank you very much. The expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is just a business for you, since even their responsible minister, János Lázár, said that energy is not in his portfolio. Just one question: what do you think is the question of expanding the Paks Nuclear Power Plant if it is not energy? But unfortunately, we're beginning to realize that for you, it's really just business and nothing more. You are encrypting the licensing and preparation materials for Paks for 30 years, and even business contracts. Gentlemen, you voted off our amendments last Monday, which would have been about public procurement and encryption, and you have already rejected the creation of an ad hoc committee to oversee the Paks Nuclear Power Plant twice. If there's nothing to hide, why didn't you let this committee pass? With great arrogance there on the Economic Committee, the President-in-Office said that we would ask Mr Bencsik, who is the head of the Energy Sub-Committee, to convene the Committee on Paks. But when, gentlemen? When they're encrypting everything so we don't have anything to talk about? And the question is, you're trying to encrypt me because you're trying to hide something. Because that's the only question that arises here is that you're trying to hide who you're signing contracts with and how much money you're making. The fact that nothing has been done in the last five years on enlargement, said exactly Mr.János Lázár, who said when I asked if the research-development reactor, the preparation of the economy, the development of entrepreneurs, the preparation of the area would happen if yes, we planned it. It's just, gentlemen, it's been planned for five years, five years wasted, in which they could have trained a generation of engineers, but you've done nothing but consider the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to be a business. And then I have a very interesting question and a question. At the end of last year, news flashed that MVM and MOL would buy 3 and 4 blocks of the Mohi nuclear power plant, which had not yet been completed. The question arises - even as a simple newspaper reader - that the encryption is to say that they are not going to spend these money on Paks during the encryption. Is the Mohi nuclear power plant more important to you than the Paks nuclear power plant? And by the way, it says a lot that no Tolna County Congressman is sitting here today, because they know that they won't be able to look their people in the eye, they won't be able to look engineers in the eye and look entrepreneurs in the eye, because there is no settlement in Tolna County where they won't work at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. They won't be able to look them in the eye, especially if they vote for this 30-year-old encryption tomorrow. You know, the biggest problem is that we call it a technical modification to raise encryption from 15 to 30 years. My question really is what is more important to you: if MVM buys the Slovak energy company and the Mohi nuclear power plant is included in this package, is it more important and they want to spend the money on it, or is Paks going to be the important and the Hungarian people? Are they patriots or not? That's the question, Mr. Secretary. [[18.50]]
u2015-03-02-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. The next speaker is Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz.
u2015-03-02-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the socialists for some restraint. [[Anita Herring: I can't be modest!]] because the name of István Józsa comes up regularly in connection with Paks, and it is no coincidence that they were the ones who were shoveling HUF 6.6 billion out of Paks. [[Dr. András Schiffer and Anita Heringes intervene.]] So if we can talk about corruption and money exported from Paks, then let's make sure that if we speak, we look inside ourselves or look inside and see what you've been doing in this case lately. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But I must add that I ask you to read carefully the rule that we are now adopting and the legislative proposal that has now come before the Parliament. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about legal term technicians here. So, the fact that business data is technical data doesn't mean that, for reasons of national security, all data is classified, but means that there is data that is not technical data, but a procedure that is, say, a business data [[Dr. András Schiffer: But this is not what we have here!]] which, for example, may mean transport routes or such, which are classified but not technical data. So maybe we could say that all the data that if that word weren't there wouldn't bother you, but we're talking about all the data that could be dangerous for national security reasons, or copyright related to it. But here, obviously, we are talking primarily about data that is interesting from the point of view of national security. So we need to pay attention to exactly what this rule is about and what we are voting on on on this issue. So what we're talking about here is that data that, for people, if they get to know you, maybe terrorists, could be a threat. We are talking about terrorism in this House many times, the issue of terrorism is a real problem, and we need to approach such a facility as a nuclear power plant accordingly. These are the aspects, and do not be disturbed by what we call them, by the way, legal term technician. It is not that some smaller contracts are not recognised in this respect, but are certain data, and the word data is not in this legislation by accident. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But it's not in there.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-02-242	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader.
u2015-03-02-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, let's just say that Paks only has an alternative. Two: the pact that Viktor Orbán concluded with Vladimir Putin last year is, in itself, a threat to Hungary's national security interests. The fact is, my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson, that it may be in your head or in your intentions that what you are saying is what you are saying, but that is not what lies in front of us. I will not list the title of the entire shameful pact in the absence of time, but here it is that the business and technical data relating to the preparation and conclusion of the agreement, which, in view of such and such a point of the info law, cannot be recognised as data of public interest. [[Tuzson Bence is shaking his head.]] It's not that, but it's not that, Bence. It doesn't say that data that otherwise violates national security is not codified that way. What it is that violates intellectual property rights or national security interests under the info law can be virtually anything. It may be a contract of attorney, where appropriate, a media marketing contract which was concluded by Ferenc Gyurcsány's company with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as it serves the purpose of the investment. The other thing that Congressman Cherry said untruely is that this does not apply to environmental information. Yes, you can. If you read the environmental law or the definitions of the Aarhus Convention, virtually everything, the lawyer's contract may not be, but besides practically everything related to this traitorous pact, it is environmental information. That's the situation. They're limiting environmental information. Since the laws, whether state property law or the Aarhus Convention, say that they can be limited, there is no way to bring forward a proposal that virtually makes it possible to conceal everything based on national security interests and intellectual property rights. Well, I've seen so much crap about a lawyer's contract, it's so complicated, it's intellectual property. There's no such thing! There's no such thing! Congressman Tuzson, the fact is that this may not be your intention, which you will press the yes button about tomorrow, will allow everything to remain a secret. Keep in mind how you intend to divide this HUF 4000 billion into three parts; how you intend to divide Hungary into three parts. After all, this story is about asking whether I am right or not, Secretary of State Aradski has given me an evasive response. You will obviously receive a green light from Brussels by letting in Western investors, Gazprom will benefit, and MET can be paid for. Western investors will benefit, Gazprom will benefit, MET will benefit, future generations will lose, Hungarian taxpayers lose. That's the thing. And you don't want to be seen behind the scenes here. This is a paragraph, Mr. Secretary of State, which allows you to make sure that whenever you think it's possible to encrypt anything. I'm not going to argue with you on technical matters, believe me, I've brought enough lawsuits against the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to release public interest data and environmental information. From the moment Parliament votes against the fact that business and technical data relating to the business are not available for national security reasons, it is enough for a sealed paper from some big dog to say that it is in violation of national security interests, let's say which law firm they are contracted with. The court doesn't have any discretion, Mr. Secretary, understand. If someone who disposses the entire investment under the contract claims in front of a Hungarian court that it is in the interest of national security that they push out the big money either to their friends, to MET here, to the west or to the east, and they say that this is in violation of national security interests, from this point forward, the court has no room for manoeuvre. That's the thing. That's the thing, Mr. Secretary. At the time, they would not have been able to codify, and it is quite amusing that János Lázár said earlier in December that, because of the European Commission's expectations, everything will be terribly transparent here. You, Secretary of State, say that anyone who wants to know who's building it, who's the main contractor, who's out there, who's the sub-contractor, will be able to look at it in public. What's the guarantee from now on, Mr. Secretary? That's what you said. This bill will be passed tomorrow. If you say the day after tomorrow that the identity of the sub-contractor is in violation of national security, a possible contract violates someone's intellectual property, from now on there is no excuse, it's all classified. You're simply breaking your own word, Mr. Secretary. This law is a shameful, cynical thing because it gives you the opportunity to keep everything secret about how people steal people's eyes. That's what I'm talking about. [[György Szilágyi and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2015-03-02-244	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-03-02-245	Thank you very much. I wanted to respond to what Mr Tuzson said, because he rightly warned socialist Members to show more modesty in the case of Paks as regards corruption cases. However, I would throw the ball back, and in addition to the socialists, I would like to draw Fidesz' attention to the fact that, in the last five years, they have been in government, and in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, their background economic interests were also present, and whether we are looking at the Central Nuclear Financial Fund or even the external back-up companies working in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, there is no doubt that corruption was not only at the time of the socialist government, but it is highly likely, even likely, that it has been present in the last five years. After all, where there is such a great amount of state money, unfortunately, there is also corruption, and I say that there is more modesty and humility on the part of Fidesz. Well, I'd like to know if the amount in the Central Nuclear Fund, or supposedly, should suddenly have to be mobilised or used for something, what would be the reaction, because it's kind of virtual money, and it's either there or there isn't. That's a possibility now. In any case, more caution in this matter as well! As far as the terrorist attack is concerned, do not be ridiculous, my fellow Members, no one has said that they cannot attempt terrorist attacks against the Paks Nuclear Power Plant or any nuclear facility. Although we do not know anything about the current Paks blocks that have been in operation in the last 30 years, it is likely that the current rules on encryption or national security measures are perfectly capable of protecting this nuclear facility. This 30-year encryption is certainly not about that. You yourself have told me that this is not mandatory, but the Parliament gives you the opportunity to encrypt business and technical secrets for 30 years. [[19.00]] This is not about where nuclear fuel is being stored, or information that becomes dangerous in the event of a terrorist attack, or what the technical parameters are and what they look like that would allow a terrorist attack on the nuclear power plant to be carried out; I do not think they are public at the moment, either under current legislation. So what I am saying is that, at the moment, if the legislative environment is not suitable, it must be addressed, not here and now, within the framework of this bill, otherwise in the context of an amendment tabled ex post, but then the necessary decisions must be taken in a different way and, as I have already said, once again, the social needs say that such an investment should be carried out much more transparently. And if it really needs to be encrypted, then there's the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, where Parliamentary Members with C-type screening are sitting, who can decide what information needs to be encrypted and what is in the public domain of the country. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-246	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2015-03-02-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You protect the Orbán-Putin pact like a good dog, which will now be encrypted later. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the governing parties: Don't dog! Be careful, though.]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are referring to the data of the past, but I would like to point out that it was not secret, and I reject your accusations. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-248	Thank you very much. However, dear Congressman, you try not to use that term another time. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Why? The dog is loyal...]] I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence, Fidesz.
u2015-03-02-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What we consider most important in this matter is that we must focus on ensuring that people's safety is in any event achieved. That is why it is important that when we talk about such encryption rules, there should be well-defined encryption rules that apply to and only apply to human safety. Therefore, it is no coincidence that this legislation allows encryption for national security reasons, and of course copyright and related rights are still included, but obviously the most important - and the focus is on this - is the encryption of national security data, data that may be dangerous from a national security point of view. Based on term technicus, there may be two types of data, as I said, that may be technical data specifically related to the power plant, and which tells us at some point, let's say, where the power plant should not be attacked or where the weak points of such a power plant are. The other, what we call business data - but I tell you, it's a legal term technicus - means that there may be procedures that may not be considered technical data, but may also be dangerous from a national security point of view. These two circles are equally covered by this regulation, that is the essence of it. And the fact that this encryption is 30 years old is linked to the lifetime of the power plant, so how long this power plant will be able to operate. That is what this regulation is about, and that is what this safety regulation is about, because it is safe to call it safety regulation, because its element, the most important part, is that this power plant can function safely. That is why this is important, and it is therefore also important that European legislation be followed in this respect, and what patterns there are in Europe in this respect. After all, there are countries where there are many more power plants that have been operating for a long time, whose rules and regulations are worth taking over. It is worth paying attention to the French rules on the basis of which encryption is allowed or the Finnish example, which is very similar to the Hungarian system, and where the encryption rules are very similar to the Hungarian encryption rules. So in this respect, the most important thing is to focus on the safety of the Hungarian people, to make sure that such a nuclear power plant can operate safely, and that is what these current rules apply. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-250	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Parliament that, although Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi made a written statement, she has withdrawn her intention to speak. I am now asking if someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yes, in 34 seconds it will be Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2015-03-02-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Bence Tuzson spoke of billion-dollar contracts between some representatives of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and MSZP in the past. Indeed, the energy vampires appeared around the MSZP. We just want you not to become energy vampires. Let us carry out this investment in such a way that it serves the interests of Hungary in all its segments. At the moment, we feel that this bill is not in the interests of Hungary. So once again, do not become energy vampires like the MSZP, because it is not good for this country. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-252	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I don't see any more applicants. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining five minutes and 10 seconds.
u2015-03-02-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In my view, it was not without anger, but it was useful to discuss the fact that many of the pro-government representatives have been able to state clearly that this bill is about how to achieve the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant safely, efficiently and within a very limited time frame. This bill is all about creating a legal environment that encourages a work of art, this creation is capacity building. So far, we have heard from the opposition lines that we and that and that and that, and, for example, from Congresswoman Anita Heringes, who is Paks, even in today's debate, have not said that yes, please, I am supporting the capacity building of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as Parliamentary Representative and MSZP Parliamentary Representative. Instead, he talked about the importance of increasing the capacity of the Slovak nuclear power plant [[Anita Heringes: Don't you understand, Mr. Secretary?]] because it dealt with more than the content of the Act on how the Paks Nuclear Power Plant would expand its capacity. [[Anita Herring: That's what you understand.]] What I see, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is a ground-breaking law, a law establishing the investment, and that it serves to establish clear relationships both in terms of investment and in terms of licensing and encryption. It is indeed our intention that, as far as possible and necessary, this provision on encryption serves only to the extent that technical and business data are excluded from the list of data of public interest. But not all of it, and not the important issues that are suitable for us to build this historic, age-old investment in a reassuring and transparent way, which we very much need. We need it very much because, after the 2030s, Europe is under threat of energy hunger, one of the most important and surest solutions of which is the expanded capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I therefore thank the opposition representatives for their support in the debate, and I ask them to read the proposal again carefully, and hopefully, if common sense prevails in your thinking, they will be able to fully support the proposal, which can ensure that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's capacity expansion is effective, encouraging and future-oriented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-254	Thank you, Secretary of State Aradski. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.10]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/3116. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that the proposal is being discussed as an EU item in the Parliament's agenda. The Commission's proposal for an amendment to the Economic Committee as a designated committee closing a detailed debate is T/316/5. and T/3116/6. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3116/8. and the summary report is T/3116/9. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes.
u2015-03-02-255	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 26 February 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/3116. Bill No. 1. This bill not only leads to compliance obligations imposed by EU provisions, but also to better transparency of the conditions under which domestic gas infrastructure is regulated on the market, resulting in more efficient use of assets and, at the same time, the provision of end-users on more favourable terms. The rules to be introduced will also help to give effect to the national interests set out in the national energy strategy. Of course, the planned development of transmission infrastructure in recent years, the physical expansion of scarce cross-border capacities, the new access point to the European gas network, the construction of cross-border capacity in Slovakia-Hungarian, as well as the ownership of domestic underground gas storage facilities in the Community was essential. All of these interlinked, sectoral and policy steps can also help to increase the country's security of supply, as well as to achieve the strategic goal of making Hungary the centre of the regional gas trade in Central Europe. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, which was supported by 23 votes in favour and 6 against. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 22 votes to six, with one abstention. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-256	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-03-02-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee discussed two amendments, both of which were proposed by the Legislative Committee, one by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the other by the Economic Committee. Surprisingly, during the debate, Mr Secretary of State supported our amendment in the first round; after learning that this MSZP proposal, which appeared in a robe as a proposal from the Legislative Committee, no longer supported it. I also explained our own proposal there - and allow me to say it here too, as I would like to present the debate - that the original bill contains a provision that different rules can be applied to the interconnection of capacity at cross-border points between Ukraine and Serbia, which is laid down by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. I drew attention here to the danger that, since the regulation is different - although the EU regulation does not exclude it to be uniform - there is a risk that there will be a specific regulation on the part of the Office, after this has already happened on the western border: a ministerial decree has helped MET Zrt. He brought his own gas to the border, sold it to the Hungarian Electricity Trading Company with a minimum premium, and then the Hungarian subsidiary of MET also received this gas volume, then sold it on the market at a good price, and in recent years he was able to gain nearly HUF 100 billion from this business. So there is a danger that MET Zrt will now be transferred from the western border wind. its activities at the eastern border, where it can conclude contracts with Gazprom directly, and in this case we will also be unable to learn the details of this contract on the basis of a business secret. However, I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that there is a court procedure in progress, which will now be subject to a second-degree judgment, and I trust that we will be able to get to know all the documents in the MET case and, of course, to make it public. The other proposal was a proposal from the Economic Committee, which indeed contained a lot of technical proposals and provisions, but I drew attention to the fact that the transmission system operator also receives a right of regulation in relation to the use of interruptible capacity or non-interruptible capacity, but the gas law itself refers this regulation to the government. Here I have received an answer from the Secretary of State, who said that an EU regulation could regulate the energy agency, but I would also like to draw attention to it here, and to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that the EU regulation gives the energy agency a right to decide on this, the legislation does not contain an explicit authorisation clause. Thus, the Energy Authority is not authorised to do so in Hungarian legislation, and this is contrary to the legislative law, since the legislative law clearly states that such an authorisation provision must be included in the legislation. Therefore, despite the EU regulation, it does not say that it will now take a decision, it will make a regulation, but that it can make a decision, but this decision should be authorised by the Office if it appears in the form of a regulation - and the amendment proposal is related to this. I would therefore like to predict that if a regulation is made on this matter, then either party may challenge it in the Constitutional Court, because it does not contain a delegation clause, or the gas law explicitly refers this issue to the government's power to establish a regulation. That's what the detailed debate was about. I'll explain the rest in the closing debate. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-02-258	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I will ask Mr András Aradski, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated committee did not submit a rapporteur, so the representatives may take part in speeches within the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, the speakers announced in writing will be given the floor, first, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-02-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, I'm not going to repeat what I just said. I would like to draw your attention to one thing, although Mr Secretary of State indicated in the general debate that there would be a solution to this. The government's legislative programme states that there will be a legislative amendment to the contracts with universal service providers this summer. However, the clarification, as I said, is also included in the proposals of the Economic Committee, and the deadlines are coming forward. Therefore, universal service providers still do not know what kind of contract they will have in the summer, and they will have to make a statement on the capacity commitment. So if the Secretary of State responds, I would like to draw attention to this once again and ask when the Hungarian Parliament will discuss the bill on the termination of the universal service provider's contract. [[19.20]] This may be an important story, if you have often referred to security of supply, because if you do not come before Parliament, then universal service providers will be left without a long-term contract, and from then on, as I said in the general debate, there is a risk that the Hungarian utility service provider, which is being created now, and that many tens of billions of taxpayers' money will be spent in it, will be in a position of priority and can be put in a position that will make the activities of other service providers impossible. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to comment on this, if he responds. As I have already indicated in the general debate, the legislation is, to a large extent, part of a legislative programme rather than adapting to the EU rules. Nevertheless, as I have already said, we will not be able to support the bill because of the different regulations at the Ukrainian and Serbian borders. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-02-261	Thank you very much, I would only respond briefly to or respond to what was said in the amendments or in the Legislative Committee, or would rather refer to it in general, since my colleague Bertalan Tóth said the concerns about universal service providers and capacity-binding. We cannot support the bill itself. I have much wider problems with domestic gas supply. The problem is at some point rooted in the powers that the Energy Union, which is about to emerge in the European Union, seeks to bring to it and force it on Hungary at EU legislative level, and what else we will be able to determine for ourselves in terms of our energy self-sufficiency, how we will ensure the supply of gas to our country. We can talk about technical details in itself, but that is also the essence of this proposal, as is the case with many other proposals that have been before Parliament in recent years. At a press conference with Viktor Orbán, when the Turkish Prime Minister visited Budapest recently - this was exactly the last week - Viktor Orbán himself said that, while, despite our EU commitment to the Romanian and Croatian border sections, we cannot achieve a two-way cross-border capacity and that natural gas can flow equally in both directions, it is very difficult for our country to meet the obligations imposed by Brussels in terms of gas markets and gas transmission capacities and storage capacities. Indeed, it is, because the government has bought back the Hungarian gas storage capacity from E.ON as a result of a decision, supported by Jobbik, and the right decision, and so we have significantly increased our opportunities to think strategically about gas supply, even over a longer period; when gas does not arrive in Hungary from one direction, we can solve it with the help of our storage capacities. But we have now started in the direction that started with the fact that the European Union, referring to the third energy package, has finally prevented the implementation of the South Stream gas pipeline, and we want this third energy package - I note - to be transposed into Hungarian legislation right now with these amendments and with the entire bill itself, which is here in front of the House. This is the Union's third energy package, which aims to have the greatest impact on the countries' self-determination and energy policy in terms of natural gas. We have already talked about the beginning of the house on the part of Brussels as to why Hungary did not involve representatives of the Commission or of the European Union when Putin allegedly negotiated a long-term gas supply contract. Everything I have just said strengthens the process of wanting to leave less and less self-determination in the hands of the Member States on the gas issue, which is not good for Hungary, because it is now left without the South Stream gas pipeline. For the time being, we do not know what will happen, how from the Turkish-Greece distribution point to our southern borders, nor do we know that because of the tension between Ukraine and Russia - last week the press continued to deal with Gazprom's declaration that it will close the gas taps towards Ukraine - when transit pipelines will be drained. So there are a series of questions that go beyond the textual changes to this bill that suggest the processes behind it. The European Union regulations, which are directly applicable in Hungarian law, do not need to be transposed, as I said in the general debate, in order to be applicable. Yet we are trying to match the Hungarian legislative environment, but it seems to me that we are getting further away from what we consider to be energy security in terms of gas supply. According to the latest news, another infringement procedure has been initiated by Brussels against Hungary, in which, among other things, Hungarian legislation is against the fact that there is too little burden to pass on from the network operator to the consumer, which is rather nonsense, because if something, we agreed with the government in the policy and legislation on the reduction of electricity, and perhaps even more strongly demanded than the government, that service providers should not be able to pass on to consumers the burdens that are not theirs, which are not the burden of their consumption and use of energy, the use of the network. Overall, we do not feel in this proposal that this brings forward the issue of domestic energy use and gas supply. We consider it to be an acceptance and acceptance of a package of proposals from Brussels, which does not have any positive effects on our country's long-term energy security, and therefore we cannot support it in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-262	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the political group may be different.
u2015-03-02-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm afraid I can't be brief. I have the honour of having our party's position before this House on T/3116. I'm going to tell you about the bill I'm about to issue, share it with you, and enjoy your full patience in this matter. The 2008 XL on gas supply. We are in a lucky position to amend law because just now the European Union's Energy Union strategy and the infringement procedure launched by the European Union Commission against Hungary because of its energy policy violations have become known. Thus, it becomes clearer even more clearly whether the direction the Hungarian government is going in the regulation is currently in the process of rewriting gas market rules, towards Europe or in the opposite direction. The declared purpose of the Energy Union is to allow all EU Member States to import energy from at least three different sources. This is the intention of the highest transparency in agreements with energy suppliers outside the EU. Another important objective is the independence of regulatory authorities and the separation of ownership of infrastructure and energy. The most powerful Hungarian energy office in Europe is led by Lajos Dorkota, who does not have any energy experience, but is a member of the Prime Minister's trust. In these circumstances, it is already unnecessary to talk about independence. The government is doing everything it can to ensure that energy transmission lines and accessible energy sources are concentrated in a single state-run way and that Hungary is best served on Russian energy imports. In the light of the above, it is hardly surprising that the Commission is also pursuing infringement proceedings against the Hungarian Government. The Hungarian energy policy is not heading for Europe, but for Russia. While Russian gas dependence is one of the most strategic risks for the European Union, the Hungarian government seems to regard the EU as a source of danger against which it is necessary to fight and to place everything on the Russian card. [[19.30]] This can be seen from the government proposal amending the Gas Supply Act. The text facilitates foreign access to gas storage capacities in Hungary, which only facilitates the reservation of Russian Gazprom and the transit use of gas pipelines in Hungary, which can also be beneficial for Gazprom and HES close to Viktor Orbán. However, this is contrary not only to the European rules already mentioned, but also to the interests of Hungarian consumers. Gas reservoirs were bought by the government at the time with the justification that it would ensure our independence from the disruption of supply on the external market. Such confusion, however, threatens the Hungarian markets only from the direction of Gazprom, which the Orbán government continues to recreate. Orbán's acquaintances, friends and business partners use MET to make tens of billions on imports of cheap Western import gas, damaging Hungarian consumers and taxpayers. From a Hungarian point of view, however, this bill serves as a favourable business for the Russian Gazprom and offshore MET, which the LMP will not vote for. I was also given the support and background of our party's experts and fellow factions to say calmly that the kind of energy independence that the governing party is constantly talking about, that it should be created, is trying to defraud a regulation that will help re-establish energy dependence and dependence on Russia from the direction of energy independence. That is why the May Other in Politics will not be able to support this in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-02-264	Thank you very much, Congressman Sallai. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I see that Mr András Aradszki wishes to respond to what was said in the debate, with a 10-minute timeframe.
u2015-03-02-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Well, the parliamentary debate here has been rather eclectic on a bill which essentially serves to adapt its network codes for ensuring and maintaining effective, transparent access to cross-border transmission networks adopted by the European Union in 2009. It is therefore precisely a law on which network users will be able to access cross-border capacities without discrimination after the entry into force. This bill does not actually contain, nor does it contain, the concerns that, let us say, the LMP Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, has said. I propose to the representatives of the LMP that if you have experts at this reading, who are reading out of this bill about our dependence on gas, perhaps you should replace your expert and we can speak more quickly. Bertalan Tóth's comments were very useful, one can agree with them in part, and we have already discussed them in part during the general debate. I can also repeat that the power of the energy authority, the regulator, is to apply network codes at non-EU borders, but this is also included in the EU regulation itself, which is in need of adaptation and is under adaptation in Hungary, thereby strengthening the independence of the Hungarian energy agency. It is only in parentheses that among the so-called infringement procedures that have already been found here, there is a charge that is not strong enough to authorize the Hungarian energy office on certain issues. The mandate for interruptible capacities does indeed exist, in the sense that this authorisation will be included in the Energy Salad Act, which we hope will be submitted to the House in the second half of March. We see that by accepting the capacity constraints needed in the gas year, including the issue of offering universal service providers, everything will be in place and we can successfully, hopefully, take this barrier to the Gas Supply Act, which will contain the coded receipt and adaptation of the third energy package. I hope that there will be another important step and an important point of debate in the so-called infringement proceedings, and that we can protect our eminent interest that legislation, the application of legislation, should not be aimed at placing more burden on the population than is absolutely necessary. We hope that we can achieve this in the debates against or together with the European Union, and we can understand ourselves. I see that you have made very important findings, Mr Lajos Kepli, although overall you have not mentioned specific regulations. But he made comments, approaches that everyone knows about, that the issues of Hungarian energy policy, the Hungarian energy strategy, should be discussed and decided on constantly. I think the directions are right, and our energy strategy for 2011 is trying to answer that, and I think it will answer that. In terms of the techniques and technologies that we can achieve these goals in the daily solutions under changing foreign policy and economic policy conditions, i.e. in order to be independent of dependence, the government would also be greatly assisted by a constructive, supportive opposition support that is objectively looking at the Hungarian energy issue. But this is not always successful, we do not always experience it; for example, the recent comment of the LMP is not included in such constructivity. I think that, overall, the Legislative Committee has tabled a summary amendment to the bill that the government can support, in line with the government's position. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-266	Thank you, Mr András Aradszki Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain administrative laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The submission is T/2329. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2329/5. and T/2329/6. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2329/9. T/2329/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr László Kucsák, in an eight-minute time frame.
u2015-03-02-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 27 February 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2329 on the amendment of certain administrative laws. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, we discussed the amendment proposal of the Judicial Committee, which was supported by 24 votes against and 4 votes against, with the exception of points 1, 6, 13, 16 and 20. [[19.40]] It is well known that on 1 January 2011, government offices in the capital and county were established. This has significantly reduced the territorial fragmentation of the previous period, bureaucracy. The establishment of a single and transparent budget ensures efficient government administration. With the creation of government offices for citizens, the administration of a number of official procedures could become much faster and simpler, especially with regard to the first construction of government windows at county and then gradually district level. At the same time, a number of regional government administrations continue to operate independently outside the organisational framework of the metropolitan and county government offices. For this reason, the government has decided to take over each regional administration in the metropolitan and county government offices. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further, which was supported by 23 yes and 4 no votes, with 1 abstention. It is perhaps worth mentioning that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, when it was about this bill, there was no substantive suggestion in the context of this bill from those expressing the minority position or, let me say, the minority vote, so there was no comment on this proposal in substance. Certain procedural and conciliation matters were discussed together in three legislative proposals and discussed, but no substantive objections were received. In this way, the Committee therefore adopted the summarised amendment proposal and the summary report with 24 votes against and 4 votes against. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-02-268	Thank you very much, Congressman Kucsak. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs.
u2015-03-02-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Both the MSZP and the opposition in general did not support the motions on the three successive legislative proposals in the Legislative Committee. These motions were discussed together by the Legislative Committee, alive and with our support. This will have meaning in terms of the end of what I have to say. I am putting this forward because my fellow Member Kucsák is right, the individual legislative proposals were not with sufficient emphasis and weight, so the next three in our comments. At the same time, one thing has to be said: that two legislative proposals, which have now been discussed and the following, are closely linked. This is because, on the one hand, it is a matter of substantive operating rules and, on the other, that organisational rules must be laid down if the existing government offices are still integrated with environmental oversight, the mining department is included, tasks are transferred in whole or in part from immigration, the OEP and so on. Our criticism was particularly relevant to a moment, which my fellow Member, Barándy, will present, as this makes the draft bill itself questionable. At the same time, it should be noted that, in substance, further expansion of government agencies raises a number of serious concerns. On the one hand, opposition representatives have said that these government offices are close to politics and close to government. The former or current Fidesz and KDNP politicians who run government offices were indeed under manual control. We therefore have serious concerns about the extent to which government agencies will be able to make an impartial decision on certain matters. As an example, we have mentioned that anything that the majority of governments point to can be considered as an investment relevant to the national economy, but this can also be an opportunity to bypass public procurement, giving real information and having a substantive debate on some investments - I would add, such as the remodeling of the Castle or Castle District - for those who decide to do so to avoid normal procedures. Therefore, our criticism did not concern lawlessness, but the laws are tailored to such things as may happen. On the other hand, we had a serious objection to some of the issues that would become part of the future new organization. We had an objection to the change in the joint tasks of OEP and GYEMSZI, as we all know that a so-called health ministry was established, a great embassy, which, just like its twin sister, is a certain Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, drowning under the weight of the tasks. Now, the tasks of the management of care would go to the OEP. We have serious reservations about the fact that an organization is the financier, the regulatory authority, plus the care provider of an area. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: No such thing!]] I would just like to mention, as a little something of interest, my fellow Members, that this regulation contains an interesting clause that came into the legislative environment under a salad law at the end of last year, namely the fact that the general doctor can determine, if he considers it justified on the basis of the documentation, the incapacity to work for 30 days. Then it's in, now it's out. In such a case, the question arises as to who was now personalized or who put forward a bill so silly that it should be corrected in such a short time. We have had problems with determining the costs of procedure and, as a main area, with the fact that the entry into office of environmental supervisors renders the resulting tasks irrelevant and does not provide sufficient guarantees that the social expectations in this regard will function properly. On the opposition side in this debate and in the joint debate, my colleague Kucsák also noted what he considered as evidence of the good functioning of the system, namely that the operation of government windows improves the well-being of citizens. Well, my fellow Member, history doesn't always start with us, although sometimes we regret it. These certain document offices, which obviously carried out the same task, were already in front of the government offices, as quickly as one of my fellow Members noted, the incoming lady could not even breathe, it took place so quickly. Yes, they did, with the same speed of administration and the same courtesy of citizens, but this does not diminish the work of those who really care about the affairs of citizens and do so quickly. At the same time, the procedures of the authorities, we note, are not limited to civil matters, but also to certain investments that are important in the national economy and the other cases. Therefore, the opposition side could not support the legislative proposals, and in all three cases we voted against them. Mr President, I am sure you will forgive me if I make the motion that, after we have discussed this together, and since I should limit myself as a minority opinion to repetitions of the next bill, I would ask you to consider the minority opinion on this basis, which I have just said, and I thank you for that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-02-270	Thank you very much, Congressman István Tukacs. Obviously, the report recorded your request. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, if he wishes to speak now. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. But before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have 10 minutes to speak in the debate and to present the possible closing phrase. Let's hear it, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-02-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know I have ten minutes, so I don't want to take the ten minutes right now. I would like to respond to the opinion of the minority. I did this at the committee meeting, but I do not see that I have had an impact on my fellow Member, Mr Tukacs. [[István Tukacs: Man forms!]] I'd like to begin with one of your factual errors: no task from GYEMSZI will be transferred to the OEP. From OEP to OEP, administrative enforcement activities are transferred from territorial OEP organisations in total. [[19.50]] In the general debate, we discussed the political affiliation of the government commissioners. Ladies and gentlemen, on this basis, the Minister has administrative powers, as will the government commissioner on the basis of the new bill, the executive power itself is part of the whole system. The possibility of redress is available to all customers, that if they are not satisfied with the decision in the public administration, there is also the court as an opportunity to appeal. Dear fellow Members, Priority investments do not constitute Kbt. the absence of public procurement rules, therefore, the procedural deadlines are shorter. As far as procedural costs are concerned, they will be reduced, as so far there has been a need to pay procedural costs and to pay a general administrative service fee or cost. Now that they are in a procedure, some of them may decrease in terms of the future. The impossibility of environmental tasks will not happen, my fellow Members, because, as we say, the organisation itself will be transferred, as we say, by cable to the government office, the labs, the same staff, the same drivers, and the computers and equipment. Clients need to go to the same place where the 11 environmental authorities have been integrated into the government office. As far as the government window is concerned, perhaps my fellow Member has missed the fact that the type of case relating to the family of documents is far less than today, while 265 cases can be handled in government windows, much more is being developed, and it is not only doing document office activities, but also selling government bonds from the Hungarian State Treasury and providing services to entrepreneurs in the Széchenyi Programme Office. That is all I wanted to react in advance to the minority opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-272	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Six minutes, almost seven minutes left for the summary. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, who has indicated in advance his intention to speak in writing. But first, I would like to say that the designated committee has not set up a rapporteur, and in the course of the debate, there is no possibility of a two-minute comment. The time frame distribution is displayed on the display. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-03-02-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me have a reaction, a quick reaction to what the Secretary of State has just said. So, it is natural for politicians to play a decision-making role in a democracy, because they really belong to ministers, undersecretaries of state and other administrative and political management roles. We just object, Mr. Secretary of State, for many times now that centralization is visible in almost all of their proposals. So it doesn't matter, and I think you'll see that, let's say, an autonomous administrative body belongs to a decision, or an organisation directly supervised by a politician, and a politician can give direct instructions to the person entitled to the decision. It doesn't matter at all. You can see in all your submissions that they're centralizing. I am central to the municipalities, I am central to the Autonomous Administrations, and I note that even within the government, because the powers that you have delegated to the Prime Minister's Office today are quite simply amazing. In a normal parliamentary democracy, I believe that it is unparalleled, at most in a presidential or half-presidential system, that, let's say, the President or the President's office has such powers and powers of such importance. So I think that this is what is objectionable, this is the centralization that appears in your governance in all areas, and that is something that we cannot accept with good heart. Of course, the details of this can and should be analysed, but I believe that this is basically what my fellow Members are talking about when they condemn these processes. The other thing, Mr Secretary of State, which I would like to talk about, and in this respect we have really shared the roles with my fellow Member, Mr Tukacs, and my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, will comment on this proposal in substance and substance, but I can tell you that at the meeting of the two committees, the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee, it was also clear that you have failed to meet an important obligation to negotiate, with regard to all three of the next legislative proposals, and what you have presented in this regard is absolutely amazing. There could be other words for it, but they'd probably be even stronger than that, so I'm not gonna do that. But what they said as an explanation is unacceptable, that's for sure. The law requires not only the general obligation to negotiate in this context, as in all laws, with the competent professional and civil society organisations, but also specifically with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum. And I am now referring to the fact that I am talking about all three legislative proposals in this circle, and I will not repeat the same in all three of them, of course. You say that you have indeed not consulted with this forum, but you have consulted - that was the explanation - those who are members of this forum. That was one of their explanations. I would like to waste my word, but it would probably be unnecessary if we had a professional debate, because I think it is easy to see that if the law requires that a specific forum be consulted, then you will consult with some of its members, it is not the same as negotiating with that forum, is it? It's a very simple logical relationship. This is as much - I think I used this example there - as if you had said that you did not have to consult the courts because you spoke to two judges, and these two judges did not indicate to you that you should consult the court on this matter. I think it really is a pity to waste more words on this; I hope that Mr Secretary of State can come up with a better explanation. The other thing that has been said in this context is that it does not introduce a new obligation for workers. Well, Mr Secretary of State, that is simply not true, it is factually not true; my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, will say a few words about this. But even if it were true, Mr State Secretary, the law states that the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum has the competence to deal with the living and working conditions and conditions of employment of government officials and civil servants employed in the public administration. And here, paragraph 3 states that the CCF should be consulted on matters falling within its competence under paragraph 2 and the rest. Dear Secretary of State, On the one hand, it does not say anywhere that there should be a new obligation. It says that in matters relating to living and working conditions, employment conditions, all of them. Not in the new one, in each of them the Conciliation Forum should be consulted. You guys didn't do that. And tell me, yeah, and the answer is, do you think it doesn't affect that? Mr. Secretary, you might want to think about, say, when it comes to the terms of secondment, where, where, where can people be relocated, doesn't that affect their living and working conditions? Ridiculous! If anyone refers to that, it's either he didn't read the law or he's lying. To put it bluntly, you have failed to do so. We have proposed that the Parliament take these laws off its agenda both at the committee meeting and later at the plenary session, because simply, based on the practice of the Constitutional Court so far, this is unconstitutional and unconstitutional. It's against the law! It is suffering from a formal error that can at least justify the violation of the basic law, and if we at least raise this condition, then perhaps it would be worth asking the opinion of this forum before and not after the submission of the bill. But as far as I know, it didn't work out after that. Dear Secretary of State, These are formal errors that can be called content. As for the other criticisms of the bill, it will be said by my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[20.00]]
u2015-03-02-274	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-03-02-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to comment very briefly. I do not share Mr Zoltán Kovács' view that the integration of the environmental authority or mining offices into government offices does not bring about a qualitative change in the performance of these authorities' tasks. Indeed, there are concerns that existed when, as I said in the general debate, these tasks came under the auspices of a State Secretary after the end of an independent ministry. It is true that this has also resulted in a shift of levels, but we have already seen that environmental protection, nature protection and, in general, the functions that belong to environmental and nature inspectorates in accordance with the current legislation, are undergoing a continuous weakening and are constantly losing interest. This is true, as Congressman Bárándy has said, that a quasi-utonomous, autonomous regional administration body, an environmental inspectorate, is placed under a government office where a political force, a political force that is currently in government, or a politician, is supervising it, or is able to exert any pressure on it, which we see every day in the case of environmental authority procedures, that companies behind different interests want to invest, and in doing so, through policy, try to pressure the authorities to ensure that the authorisation takes place and takes place as smoothly as possible. When news reports bring up from week to week or month to month what protected natural areas, Natura 2000 sites, water habitats, any other highly protected areas may be affected by various environmental activities and investments, it cannot be said that it will not affect the performance of the authority's tasks if it becomes even more under political influence. That's one of the questions. The other issue is the special territorial competence of these administrations, these environmental authorities, which cannot be brought together with the county or district areas of government offices, or any other area of competence, because they have environmental, water and nature conservation reasons, as those authorities were established at the time, and I do not know how they can be brought together at the same time as all other authorities at county or district level. For example, if you look at the Central-Transdanubian environmental authority, it is essentially limited to three counties, Fejér, Tolna and Veszprém counties, but at the same time, from special water aspects, for example, the Sió channel represents the territorial competence limit, or even some settlements from Győr-Moson-Sopron County belong there, as I understand, because there are reasons for this to be well established and long tradition. I do not know what this will do or whether environmental values will be damaged if this changes and these authorities will be subject to county or district territorial jurisdiction within government offices. I'm not even sure the personnel are affected. Even now, these authorities are not over-equipped in terms of human resources. However, if all such authorities are integrated under a government office, even if they continue to work locally, physically, in the same building, they are likely to have some sort of rationalisation, economic considerations that we have seen under the governments of the past - including the former Fidesz governments - that have always resulted in a downsizing. I don't even remember a significant increase in staff in such departments or even stagnation for a long time. They have always lost weight and lost weight and have been able to carry out their duties under less and less financial and technical conditions. There is a particular risk of this in the field of environmental protection, I have already said this in the general debate, Mr State Secretary. I am very concerned, and I do not think that what has happened in the last five years in the area of the domestic environmental sector, the state administration, the Ministry, the regional administration bodies, and therefore the environmental authorities. The fact that there were problematic persons in the director's seats of the various authorities is not the case at this time, but this only indicated the process that the authorities were often selected on the basis of political considerations, and the professional aspects were not dominated here either. It is clear that this process will only continue to be strengthened by integration into the government office. Therefore, Jobbik will not support this proposal or the forthcoming bill on regional administrations in the final vote. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-03-02-276	Thank you, Congressman. Next speaker Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2015-03-02-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The situation is somewhat better than on the first subject, it was on the first day of debate, because then Mr János Pócs was sitting across from us and Mr Czibere was still here. I see that he is no longer allowed here, because in his first sentences he said that when we came to power, and his next sentences were that of the State of Service. Well, that's about the real face of Fidesz, I mean, he's talking about a service state, and when we're in power, we're exercising power instead of providing. This is just the general sentence, which is part of what should be mentioned in connection with this draft law. It is not professional rationality that governs your work; it is not, it is serving political needs, it is the fulfillment of what prevails in this draft law. When my fellow Member Bárándy mentioned that everything that has happened has happened without practically impact assessments or even without consulting the Conciliation Forums, it is not only to be condemned, but I can safely say that it is not appropriate. It's not even appropriate, because practically everything you want to go through with your strength, you want to do, you're going to run into a certain resistance that you can call lurking. Obviously, if these views had been sought, it would have been possible to establish a more fairer, more refined set of conditions, acceptable to employers and workers, in matters affecting people's living and working conditions, regardless of whether it is a secondment or anything else. One word, like a hundred, you have no intention of going in that direction. You want to centralize, you want to centralize, you want to bring all that you want to achieve to life through political commissaries. You will order, and the political commissaries will perform, and the profession will be pushed aside on these issues. The biggest problem is that the measure of political responsibility will be confirmed by who the political commissaries, who, say, on the Prime Minister's phone, do what the Prime Minister says on the side of his wishes, because he is the middleman of political messages in the first place. I think that this is a distorted system, this is the system that practically creates the law of insolence in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-02-278	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-03-02-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll start with a little formal before I get to generality. My colleagues have noticed that the authority empowered to deal with appeals in relation to family support benefits and disability benefits may also entrust data processing tasks, ministerial discharges to a non-state administration or sole state-owned entity. Our party is of the opinion that this is particularly unfortunate because of the special personal data. So you have such a formal comment from my colleagues. Then I'll switch partly to what affects our party's voting behaviour most. On the government side, as a government representative, as a secretary of state, it is obviously expected to believe that these legislative amendments are being tabled in a better way, but at the same time to allow us to accept them as opposition politicians with a little mistrust, also with an improved intention, because in most cases this little ball, these government offices, which are growing, growing and growing and embracing everything that comes close to them, are increasingly seen as simply acting as an instrument of power technology, and the government's intention to exercise control over society, and indeed, if my fellow Member here mentioned political commissars, so that he can have an impact on development policy and any other system for territorial settlementisation in a similar way. [[20.10]] What are we talking about? We're talking about if, say, an Audi company wants to settle down somewhere and say they want to do it in a protected area, they'll get a green light right away, or there'll be someone who says they don't; we're talking about a specific example. Or someone in Csongrád County says that they want to do gas research on shale gas as soon as possible, and there's a authority that says they don't, because it creates concerns, even if we take and take the authority away from this, and we make it worse and put it in an office. Obviously, this is the comforting fact that 11 environmental administrative bodies are divided into 19 areas. This cannot mean for us that the number of people who have so far been completely dissatisfied, with a completely dissatisfied infrastructure background, who are unable to perform their tasks, who do not have sufficient territorial staff, if they are divided into 19 and then become sufficient. Obviously, all this attitude about the government's intention to create control and, obviously, on the other hand, what we said in the general debate about the reduction of the environmental and nature protection institutional system during the winter, raises concerns as to whether it is wise to speak as effective by the government. In our opinion, very, very nice, wise and smart communication leaders say these populist words to Fidesz, such as the word efficiency, but this efficiency actually means that a centralization is taking place. In fact, this means that everything will be adjusted to one place, and it does not necessarily mean that a higher professional and background authority will be created. In the interpretation of Fidesz, this efficiency could mean eliminating administrative bodies. Well, then, what's the point? Isn't it more efficient if you don't need permission to build a construction site or you don't need permission to build a road? Obviously, this efficiency is a populist approach because it does not serve that purpose. Why is it a problem if there is an independent representation of different fields of expertise at the level of the authorities, and organisations with equal levels of competence or competence, but similar powers, with an established application criterion, have the right to say no in certain provisions. Who is it, now I'm asking who's going to say no to the government? Who's the one who says it's not a good thing to do that for a government development? Where will the authority, where will the administration, who will say, based on common sense and professional considerations, that a development policy goal should not be supported? This will not be the case, because political administrations are meant to pass government intentions with a green light, everything, but at the same time virtually with centralization behind customer-friendly passwords, professionalism will be lost, which would provide an opportunity to halt the overuse of natural resources at some level. This legislation does not serve the wise and legitimate administrative care system, and therefore the May Other Politics will not be able to support it. It is also interesting that point 19 of the summarised amendment concerns fundamental provisions, so two thirds of the Members of Parliament present will have to vote in favour tomorrow, so we look forward to the results. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-280	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. I would like to ask you if someone still wants to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] Since I do not see a candidate, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. The preparations indicate that Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur, wishes to address what was said in the debate within a timeframe of 6 minutes and 55 seconds.
u2015-03-02-281	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to clear up a few mistakes here in the closet. We're about to begin negotiations. The consultation concerns the fact that working conditions are affected. Here the same working conditions are performed by the workers, although the rapporteur has consulted several trade unions and representatives of interests in the course of the presentation. The other is such a mistake, honourable Members, and this has already been drawn up in quite a few of them, not by the organization in the process, but by what material laws or procedural laws we make. Regulation is the main issue. So if the regulation is soft, which you have not referred to, then there is a problem, but we maintain the same regulation, only within the framework of another organizational system. I'm telling Sallai R. Benedek that it's not what matters - perhaps with a metaphorical example - that we should say how many people are in the army, but what kind of weapons she has. The weapon is regulation, the army can be an organization. If you don't have good regulation, if you don't have mandatory elements in a procedure that takes into account all the conditions of authorisation, then you can have an independent organization that, to put it this way, you can go to the salt office. We say that it is at least as important to regulate in addition to the deadline available to the client and to the customers. The reason why we create integrative bodies is that the gross procedural time that has been extremely long so far - a good example of this, if any, such as the green authority - can now be resolved much simpler and quickly within the organisation. In addition, the integration of functional organs is more effective for the activity that was fragmented, has been special financial, separate HR, special IT, and is being put into an organizational system today. And as far as posting is concerned, this is also a mistake. The rules of jurisdiction, an environmental authority, I say to Lajos Kepli, will continue to supply Fejér and Veszprém counties, only so far he has entered the car as an administrative body and has gone to Veszprém County if, let's say, an on-the-spot inspection had to be carried out, and today Fejér County's government official orders the same administrator, he goes to Veszprém County and the same on-the-spot inspection happens. So there's no change in that. If it makes you have other delusions, I can't help it. As regards the principle of non-law, even in the course of the conciliation, the Constitutional Court's decision on the Fundamental Law did not state that this is an entry into force criterion, and we also claim that there is no change in the conditions of life for integrative organisations. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Congressman, you could have told me when you just got the floor. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Unfortunately, the Secretary of State has not spoken in order to respond.]] I didn't interfere with what you had to say. I listened carefully. You said the same thing before, you said the same thing at the committee meeting, you could say it today. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I still didn't get an answer. The president's ringing the bell.]] The number of environmentalists, my fellow Members, is 1100 rounded up, this has been challenged, it is all coming through, but integration will help, and this can be increased, because the various authorities can be covered. Therefore, where the task requires, different administrators may perform environmental and, where appropriate, other official tasks adapted to the task. While it was a separate organisation, this could not be done, and the internal organisational time could be significantly reduced. Have I referred to this before, if there is no sectoral organisation, then is that sector perhaps going to freak out? Did I say the other day that if there was no independent sports department, the number of Olympic gold would be reduced? If there is no Ministry of Construction, is there no construction, or if there is no Ministry of Health, will the health institution collapse? It's not up to that. I'm still saying regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, Even environmental protection has emerged that, on the basis of the integration of different organisation systems, individual sectors do not receive sufficient weight. I'll just give you an example: Bajan remains the water environmental authority, we don't touch it, he's already done the job there, he's still doing the job there. Overall, I have to say, with which I started, that the freedom of organisation from the side of integration and executive power, for which all governments had the opportunity, by the way. In the past, the socialists imagined the public administration within a regional system, within the framework of the so-called IDA programme, and paid Attila Ágh a few million when he did this program, but they didn't have the strength to carry it out, while the elections came in 2010. The essence of the executive power in this respect is to respond more quickly and more flexibly to the needs of customers according to a uniform set of criteria, under the same conditions. [[20.20]] And I would end by saying that the administrative procedure itself is not over, so to speak; there is an independent court, which, in the event of an infringement, can eliminate any wrong decisions by the government commissioners you call political commissaries, which has been and will continue to exist. It is also the task of the future to reduce the time of the redress system itself, how it can be transformed primarily from a customer's point of view. So we claim that this will improve the system, faster, more flexible and efficient, and this is primarily in the interests of customers, which is why we are creating this new, transformed system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-282	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The submission was made in T/3115. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/3115/9. by serial number T/3115/8. they have been granted a serial number. The report of the Committee on Sustainable Development related to the debate is T/3115/10. received on a serial number. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/3115/14. by serial number T/3115/15. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for all of this. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, in an eight-minute time frame.
u2015-03-02-283	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The government's priority objective is to increase the efficiency of public administration within the framework of the State Reform Programme, to create a more coherent, controlled and cost-effective territorial administration, thereby achieving the efficiency and effectiveness of the government's territorial responsibility. For the sake of this, a bill amending certain administrative laws has been submitted to Parliament, which is necessary for the integration of certain regional government bodies into the metropolitan and county government offices, and for the internal organisation of the metropolitan and county government offices. The proposal is primarily based on organisational changes. At the same time, it is necessary to adapt the organisational side of the territorial administration in accordance with the regulation of official procedures. Dear House, At its meeting on 27 February 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system T/3115. Bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee, which was supported by 24 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. On the basis of this bill, the reform of the regional administration is expected to speed up the administration of procedures, which is not due to the reduction of the general administration period, i.e. the reduction of 21 days, but rather to the reduction of the so-called gross administration period, so that it takes account of the procedures not to be included in the administrative period at the moment, such as the cessation of administrative procedures within government offices. The proposal contains the necessary amendments to these legislative changes in the context of certain official procedures. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 24 votes against and 4 votes against. I call on this House to support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-284	Thank you very much, Congressman Vecsey. The minority opinion has already been presented, as Member István Tukacs has previously indicated that he has delivered the minority opinion within the framework of an item on the agenda. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated committee. To present the minority opinion formulated in the Committee on Sustainable Development, I now give the floor to Mr Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-03-02-285	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The Committee on Sustainable Development discussed two amendments: one from the Hungarian Socialist Party was submitted by Mrs Anita Heringes, and I myself submitted a proposal for leaving, in which we wanted the Environmental, Nature and Water Inspectorate not to blend into government offices. This amendment has been rejected by the majority of the committee, and unfortunately there has been no Commission position, and this is why we have drafted the minority opinion below. In our view, the constitutionality and conflict with fundamental rights also arise in the case of this legislative amendment proposal. The fundamental right to a healthy environment appeared in the old constitution and in the current Fundamental Law with roughly the same content, and therefore the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court had to be taken into account, in my opinion, where the basic decision, which the Constitutional Court has taken in this case in the application of the right to a healthy environment, in principle precludes the withdrawal of the environment and nature protection institution system. This was done on three levels by the Constitutional Court at its age and expressed in its decisions. In terms of legal standards: lifting nature protection, reducing limits, reducing protection zones, privatization in the absence of proper strict supervision and others. In the second part, as regards procedural provisions, it was prohibited in the procedure to abolish the authorisation obligation or the administrative involvement. In Part Three, with regard to organisational standards, the pooling and elimination of environmental and other authorities. Later, the free right of governance to do so in what environment and organisational form was also covered by the prohibition, which was also consistently applied in several cases in relation to the basic decision when, for example, it had to decide to lift nature conservation protection. The prohibition is an objective barrier to legislation, the Constitutional Court stated at the time, because the object of the prohibition of withdrawal, as we have seen, is always a legal requirement, according to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, whether or not its level of protection was originally well defined. It cannot be examined by the authority whether the provision was good in the past. In these respects, the withdrawal should not necessarily be considered unconstitutional if it falls within the free regime of the government, but at the same time in a subsequent case, 439/B/1999. in the Constitutional Court's decision, it is demonstrated that the withdrawal would be unconstitutional even if it was not associated with the risk of environmental degradation. Consequently, the melting and destruction of the environmental level should not be allowed in our opinion, and the Committee has asked us to give this minority opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-286	Thank you very much, Congressman Sallai. Dear Parliament, The speakers will now take part in the time frame on the agenda, which can be seen on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to MEP Nándor Gúr, notary, the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[20.30]]
u2015-03-02-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The two laws, right, the amendment of individual administrative laws and this law, the law on the transformation of the territorial administration system, are closely linked to each other. In fact, one makes the framework set-up and the other makes the completion of it, which is basically a redirection of the merger or part-tasks to government offices. I don't need to go back to the fact that, from the environmental office, environmental and nature control agencies, through the mining offices, the activities of the Hungarian Treasury dealing with certain family policy tasks, the main architecture tasks, immigration issues, the professional tasks of the OEP, all of which are integrated into this mega-giga, I don't know what kind of organization. Actually, I'm gonna have to repeat my earlier review with a sentence. In this bill, too, it is true that there is no impact assessment of any kind, at least there is nothing that would make it sufficiently valid for what they want to achieve. I do not want to mention here that if we look only at the 2013 accounts, what was the operating conditions for government agencies, in many other respects, in terms of fulfilling or not fulfilling their payment obligations, because of the way they were able to do their job, I do not want to explain these details. I would like to mention, however, what Mr Secretary of State knows is that this change alone brings about the amendment of 22 sectoral laws, if I have calculated correctly, but it may help 23, if more. The essence of the matter really concerns the content issues. There's a lot to ask, but I'd definitely mention 3-4. One of them is when installing to walks related to the provision of active age, i.e. installing the task to walks, where practically cases that have been supported in the previous form, such as the issue of keeping the living environment in order, are now removed from the system using this form of solution, i.e. annihilated and repealed. It must be assumed, Mr Secretary of State directly; not in this way, in a hidden form, that because of the transfer of occupations with active age to district offices, the issue which has been dealt with previously will now be treated differently. Or the other issue of this type is the issue of investments of major importance for the national economy, which my fellow Member Tukacs mentioned in a sentence. What I would like to say here is that this is, in effect, the possibility of state-controlled or controllable corruption, or you can give it to me in my opinion, so this is a very dangerous course. Or it may be that the story is that Viktor Orbán wants to move up to the Castle and that the investment should be included in this priority investment from a national point of view, just like the stadiums, or God knows what else is going on, and then even the procedural rules on these issues need not be complied with. I don't want to talk about it anymore. But I could also say other things that affect people in a direct way, such as the issue of equity care fees. The fact is that if the previous rates cannot be provided and cannot be financed by the municipality, then practically these people who have received an equity care fee lose even their health insurance. Unfortunately, there is a real risk of that. These are the questions, Mr Secretary of State, which are tearing the system apart, not those which you have tried to speak and speak about here. Or I'll tell you one more thing, and I won't push you any further. You know, when, shamelessly, last year, I think, in December, they decided, under a law, that a retrospective proof of incapacity could be made for 30 days, and now this is corrected and liquidated for three months, which was done three months ago. Why do they do things like that? For whom do they do all these things? Not for the multitude of people. It may be for some people, but I think they should be reviewed. You know, they give people the chance to think that these cases are really run by political commissaries. Not in bad taste, but because political interests, perhaps serving the special interests of some people, even if they have to, God bless, don't give, even laws. One word, like a hundred, I want to say that what they are doing, in this sense, by amending the laws on the subject of administrative matters and now by transforming the regional administration system, I think it is not the strengthening of the service, but, in a sense, the crushing of functioning processes. And when it comes to crushing the working processes, we can't talk about how that would mean that you're trying to strengthen a state of service. Rather, it means what Secretary of State Czibere said, i.e. when they came to power, after that. Because, you know, it's not a service to say, the NAV, let's look at it as a service organization, the NAV, that if you take a decision and the company appeals against this decision, regardless of whether or not the appeal is assessed, I know that it hurts, Mr Secretary, it's difficult to look this one in the eye, regardless of the assessment of the appeal, you can make a decision whether to take your stock away from this company, destroy the company, dismiss its employees, and then, in two years' time, find out that the company may have been right, but you can only go with the right one to another. So, one word, as a hundred, you are not strengthening a service state, but rather the opposite, and this is shameful. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-288	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-02-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Since the previous agenda and present presentation are indeed linked, what my fellow Member Lajos Kepli said, I can only fully join it. Indeed, we are at risk of being outsourced or, more precisely, now organising certain powers under the territorial administration, which means that they know it in a one-gate system, or there is a chance that they can instruct these bodies to make certain decisions. Well, the government of Fidesz over the last five years hasn't proven that cases like this couldn't happen. I would like to highlight a few more regulations from this proposal, we have already started a debate with the Secretary of State in the general debate and a professional debate, if I may put it this way, on why certain points are dangerous in this proposal. This was, among other things, in the case of priority investments. I must tell you frankly that it was a little uncreditable for me to listen to our fellow MSZP Member before me, because it was the MSZP that brought the scope or possibility of major investments into the Hungarian legal system at the time. And at the time, the Fidesz was full of throats, and, by the way, I must say, he rightly protested that it would open or open the gates of the socialists that might cause abuse, which could be the storehouse of abuse. All that has happened now is that Fidesz has continued to open these gates, and otherwise not only the current Orbán government, but the Orbán government, which has been Regent since 2010, has also changed the rules on priority investments in several cases. In all cases, we have explained why this is dangerous and why it is hypocritical. It was not only in this proposal that something, say, from the Fidesz opposition, was violently attacked and protested against it, but it took advantage of the laws of the socialists on the government, and even extended the cases further. In this case, what we are now seeing is the exclusion of the word "admission" from the proposal, so this means that, in the case of priority investments, not only the authorisation authority procedures can be accelerated, with less guarantees, but, in fact, everything from now on. [[20.40]] This is what we continue to consider a dangerous direction. Then, what has yet to be said in the general debate, and I would like not to repeat it here, but to give it torque and add additional additives, is the provision of the provision of active-age care, in which case, as the municipalities avoid a part of these benefits, they eliminate the possibility of requiring the municipality to require, for example, those who receive it to maintain their living environment. [[Dr. István Tiba will be replaced in the notary seat by Attila Gelencsér.]] The Secretary of State then replied, which may seem half logical, that this is because, at the moment, the state cannot provide for the maintenance and maintenance of the environment. However, a method could be found for the State to impose these obligations. A lot of mayors have come to us since the Parliament held the general debate and said that they and the office managed by the notary could be able, if the state can provide this legal opportunity, to check that this obligation is fulfilled by those who receive these benefits. Thus, the fact that someone has been ordered to correct the state of the property and is obliged to do so at the moment should not cease by giving these benefits through the administration of the state. I would like to underline this because it is not a good point of reference either that the State cannot properly verify whether this obligation or obligations are met by the right holders. The notaries can do that. Then, Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to allow in the future, by means of a legislative amendment, that, also in the case of aid that will be allocated through the State, the community and taxpayers can expect at least one minimum effort from the people who receive it. If we amend this law in this way, there will be no future opportunity for it, and not for the municipalities, and here I stress that the municipalities will continue to have the opportunity, but in cases where the allocation or payment of aid is avoided from the municipalities, the State will probably no longer require them or require legislative amendments. So together with this and the addition that my fellow Member Lajos Kepli has said, all I can say is that neither professional nor non-abuse is guaranteed in this new system. That is why we will not be able to support the proposal, but of course, despite the fact that we do not support it, or more precisely: we will be monitoring the way in which these are implemented in practice; and, as Mr.Secretary said, against the accusations that really exist that these government commissioners function as commissaries, or in many cases they can operate in such a way as to try to move towards this position in the future, even if they are appointed through Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-290	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-03-02-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank God, the two laws, the previous one and this one have exactly the same regulatory circles, I can answer what you said in the closing word. You know, Mr. Secretary, I've heard this amazing argument from you several times about what's changing. I mean, they're gonna have the same schedule, they're gonna work in the same place, they're gonna do the same thing. Mr Secretary of State, you also feel that there is a difference between a person operating autonomously once and being placed under the direct direction of a political leader. That's what I think you know and feel. The fact that a minister oversees an area, Mr Secretary of State - because I hear this argument now, as you are discussing it with Mr Répássy State Secretary - does not mean the same thing as giving direct instructions to these administrative bodies, where appropriate, autonomous administrative bodies. You know, I can sort of compare that to maybe a little limp in the metaphor, like you're saying that next time they're gonna put the MPs under the supervision of a minister. We're gonna work here, and we're gonna do the same thing, but we're gonna have a boss or a constitutional judge. You know, Mr. Secretary, those who are involved in this case, those who work there, they understand exactly what this is about. Those of you who know a little bit about the area, by the way, know exactly what this is about. I would like to read you a very short letter, which I have received at precisely these moments. Your Honour, Lords! Thank you for having the courage to speak against the death of the administrative bodies, the disappearance and melting of the 18 professions and professions. Politics has nothing to do with veterinarians, public health specialists, construction, monuments and so on. They're disappearing now. They'll only be small classes under political district and county clerks. Why can't we take action against this? That is indeed the question. Not only can't you stand up to him, but why are you doing this? We can see and see exactly what those who are involved and know what this is about, what you're doing. This, I think, is completely unacceptable. And one more request, Mr. Secretary. I know what you guys do is that opposition representatives have no chance of participating in the debate, that they only respond in the closet. Here's 17+8 minutes, the time frame for Fidesz and KDNP. Make sure they give it to us, opposition representatives, because we are running out of time. We have something to say to you, it seems that there is none. In the previous debate, neither the KDNP nor the Fidesz have used a single minute, nor in this debate for the time being. Well, if you don't have to do that, then do it to give it to us so we can argue. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-292	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, May Other be Politics.
u2015-03-02-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With all due respect, I apologize to the Secretary of State for listening boredly to the opposition speeches at this late hour; forgive me, but it is really important for me, environmental and nature protection; believe me, it is very bad for me that a political subject is a topic that would otherwise be technically justified. However, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity that Congressman Bárándy has given me to respond to his last words, the previous one, because it is a similar subject. You said everything always depends on regulation. I think you are very wrong about that, and that is one of your main mistakes in this whole legislative amendment proposal that it depends on regulation. It's a system. If there is no intention to apply the law, and it is said by political direction that the intention to apply the law and the interpretation of the law can be the best legislation, we are worthless. If we don't have a proper human background for enforcement, law enforcement, once again we can pin the law on us, it's worthless. Because if we don't have the right level of authority and the authorities, and they don't want to decide with independent professionalism, then the best regulation isn't worth anything. I believe that this legislation, along with the previous one, is the elimination of independent professional administration. I know you're just gonna slap me, but your secretary of state was Zoltán Illés, who tells me that the effort is to eliminate the systematic environmental institutional system. That's what he couldn't assist with. It is possible to argue whether this is true or not, but it is certain that relatively many people agree with this professional opinion. And if we take this in line with all the other processes we see, by how 50 000 hectares of land is transferred from the management of national parks to the ground; how they are destroying national park directorates; how the forced, politically controlled, non-natured lease of national park land took place; if you look at the fact that the occupied protected areas are no longer in the management of national park assets, but the NFA - it is not a coincidence that many people are speaking against this. Let me quote to you the words of Deputy Ombudsman Marcel Szabó, who wrote about this process that I regard as completely illegal. Any restructuring which terminates the management of nature reserves in protected natural areas or transfers property management from national park directorates to a body not assigned to the basic tasks of nature conservation, or violates the administration, may harm the fundamental right to a healthy environment, thus raising concerns of constitutional maladministration. This is what Marcel Szabó Deputy Ombudsman said, which is roughly the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development on why this legislation is not good and should not be supported. Nor can it be a coincidence that our country's largest politically independent non-governmental organizations have protested. This included the international WWF, the Hungarian Society for Bird Science and Nature Protection, which is 41 years old this year, the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, which joined the resolution by more than a hundred organizations, and in their resolution they said: "We do not see any guarantee that NFA will be able to perform protection related tasks in protected areas, since NFA has neither the information necessary to protect natural values nor the experts. [[20.50]] The transformation of environmental and nature conservation management organisations jeopardises the preservation of environmental and nature protection. In our view, the decision will result in a deterioration of the natural state. What makes it a hundred independent civil society organisations, which are professional, the Ombudsman, your former Secretary of State for the Environment, and many of us here in Parliament say the same thing, but you still tie the dog to the stake, so that everyone here is wrong, only you know, and that won't be a problem?!There is obviously a concern that if someone wants someone to dare, say, to say no to the peat mines of the Prime Minister's father, that it may or may not be possible, or to say to the shredder of the stone authorized in Vértes that it violates the right of those living there to a healthy environment, then who is it going to be? For you, the environment and nature conservation institution system is just one in a large bag that needs to be put together and transformed into a government office to serve that particular efficiency. For many of us in this country - and I have listed many organisations that are independent of politics - this is a professional issue. I have not seen any of your views on which experts would have argued. I understand that you come here at the level of State Secretary and argue with us, because that is your job, but I do not see any environmental and nature conservation experts behind you who would say that this system is good, operational, ensuring that Hungarian citizens have the right to have a healthy environment and a future. This determines our party's position, and we will therefore not be able to support it in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-294	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-03-02-295	In his previous closing statement, Minister of State said something quite amazing, that this integration into government offices is good because it will make one authority compatible with the other, and that the same people will be able to be assigned to other tasks on demand. I imagine a former OEP health inspector will be checking dangerous facilities. You're gonna get an amazing result. There are no polyhistorians, each authority had its own team of experts, which should only be used in that area, because otherwise situations could be quite astonishing. The other: Mr Secretary of State says in vain that this will not be a problem in territorial jurisdiction. But there is a problem that these fucking national parks and nature reserves simply do not fit the administrative boundaries of the district and county, but they extend from one area to another, even the watercourses, but I could also say other natural formations, which so far had the system of nature conservation authorities that that conservation unit belonged to one authority. But if it is divided, and we see that different environmental authorities have different enforcement or licensing practices, and two different authorities issue permits in the same area, with two different enforcement practices, what consequences can there be? This law is simply nonsense, I continue to say, and my colleague Gábor Staudt has already said that we cannot support it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-296	Thank you, Congressman Kepli. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-03-02-297	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, An amazing thing is happening here tonight: the opposition is arguing against cutting red tape. [[Noise on the opposition side. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No one said that.]] Yes, you can. That is what you are arguing against, my honourable fellow Member. All contributors argued that disintegrated organisational systems should remain separate from pre-integration procedures. We say, on the other hand, that integration is partly against cutting red tape. I'd like to tell Congressman Sallai quickly when he's getting up... [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. To Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] Congressman Bárándy, you've had about eight minutes to talk; it's not my fault that Nándor Gúr told you your time. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Speak up once, Mr. Secretary of State, so that you can answer it. Once! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-02-298	Please, just hold back.
u2015-03-02-299	Mr. Congressman, I'm asking you to calm down. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I am calm!]] Doesn't look like it. I would like to tell Mr Sallai that national parks will not be integrated. I told you that in the general debate. Anyone who wrote your speech has not been able to rewrite this speech since then. National parks don't get integrated, I'm telling you this one more time. What Lajos Kepli suggested, I answered in my previous comment. Those who said that we were not going to take part in the debate, I say to those who, immediately after the minority opinion, asked for the floor and said the Government's position on the points made there. I've already answered to fix the environment the other day. I'm going to tell Gábor Staudt once again that there are two ways of providing aid, one that is subjective, in which no conditions can be imposed, and the other that can be given aid. There is nothing to prevent local governments from continuing to tie the grant of aid to the restoration of the environment. It's obvious that it's been in one place so far, in the municipality, the two at the mayor's office, the notary's office, and the representative's board. This now creates clear relations, and it follows that a condition cannot be imposed on a person who is subject to the right, because it is subject to the right, and which is conditional, the municipality can continue to do so. I have already said in my previous comment that the subjects of the regulation, or those who implement the regulation as enforcers of law, depend on the procedural arrangements and the substantive applicability and application of the legislation for the future. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that what you have said here is not going to stand up to it, because it does not matter whether the administrators are in an integrated organisation or not, they are subject to legislation, laws, government regulations and sectoral regulations. And that means organizational control: so far, a separate administrative body has been run by a State Secretary and a Deputy State Secretary, and now a government commissioner who is in the rank of Deputy State Secretary to make a comparison. On this basis, this has not been the object of an objection, and now it is necessary to look for something in order to be able to respond to the proposal, because the arguments that have been raised so far have all been answered on our part. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I can repeat what I said earlier: in terms of interoperability, no one has said that there will be OEP doctors involved in environmental regulatory procedures, but let's say that a lawyer performing official activities can participate in environmental protection procedures in the same way as in the other way. These interoperabilitys persist and so far the organisations have acted independently. They had a number of tasks, which today is more shared in an integrated organization than they have been on their own. This also affects the reduction of procedural deadlines, and we say that the most important thing for us is always the client, the customer-friendly public administration, of course not to ignore regulation and compliance with laws when making decisions. And if a decision fails, I will continue to say that there is an independent Hungarian court as an opportunity for redress. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-02-300	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legal acts and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The submission is T/3019. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/3019/13. and T/3019/14. was given to them. [[21.00]] Report of the related Defence Committee T/3019/12. received on a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3019/17. and the summary report is T/3019/18. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-02-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3019 on 27 February 2015. The Commission presented a bill amending certain legal acts and a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 yes and 4 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment contains the proposals of the Judicial Committee, on the one hand, and the legislative committee's own motion on the other. I would like to highlight point 3 of the amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee, which was unanimously supported by the Legislative Committee. The proposal complements the draft with another, 28. Article 5 of the Act on Civil Service Officers and Officials, 2011 CXCIX. Law No 134 In the future, the Office of Justice would also be covered by the additional salary rules provided for in Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of the Government's decision, certain control tasks related to executives were transferred to the Justice Office from 1 March 2015. I would like to point out that it is for the Justice Office to supervise the handling of complaints against executives and to monitor the regular office operation of executives. I believe that the problem that has arisen in connection with the operation of the executives is not unknown to my fellow Members, and in this it has been given an eminent task, and the judicial authorities have received it. Highly qualified persons are needed to carry out this new function. The proposed amendment aims to create the possibility for the Office of Justice to employ highly qualified persons by approximating wages in this sector. At the same time, the amendment will not have an impact on the budget, its need for resources can be covered by the transferred money of executive tasks. In addition to technical and linguistic specifications, the proposal clarifies the rules on a public certificate and also provides for the possibility of a judicial sitting between 7 March and 30 April 2015. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the reasons for the status law in the rest of my thoughts. The purpose of the bill is CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. Law, Ktpv. making its current rules more flexible in order to enable public administrations to perform their functions more effectively and to adapt more quickly to the government's organisational decisions and purpose. According to the bill, the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Amendment to Act T/2329 on the amendment of certain laws concerning administrative matters, which has already been discussed. It seeks to provide an effective solution to issues that need to be dealt with in connection with the integration of government agencies. In relation to the laws discussed in the framework of today's agenda, it should be pointed out that T/3019 should be highlighted. T/3115. and T/2329. Together, legislative proposals will make the renewable public administration more efficient and up-to-date, in our view. I would like to add one more comment to the bill before us. The bill is set at 39 and 41. §2 of the Treaty seeks to eliminate the anomalies that we are experiencing in the sense that the salaries of civil servants who have been taken over from the local authorities at the time of the establishment of the district offices can only be managed until the career model has been put in place so that, within 30 days of the entry into force of the legal status law to be negotiated, performance assessments are carried out at the district offices of government offices, thereby trying to create the opportunities that, on the basis of individual performance, allow these workers, if they do good work, not to suffer a significant loss of income. In this respect, I believe that the government's task is to make the necessary resources available at the government offices, but at the same time the individual benchmarking provides an appropriate opportunity to compensate for any losses that may be made in this area. I ask for your support for the adoption of the Legal Status Act, also in the context of the two other legislative proposals previously discussed. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-02-302	Welcome, fellow Members. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2015-03-02-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill and the previous two legislative proposals, as we have already mentioned, are linked or at least discussed at the same time in a joint debate by the Legislative Committee. In relation to the legislative proposals, we have formulated what my fellow Member Bárándy, let us say, laid down or expressed at the outset, that we should not have discussed it, because this consultation with a certain Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, which we believe to be required by law, has been failed by you. So, overall, we think we shouldn't have brought this in here because of formal rules. But if you were already here, of course, we were in the debate and we said our objections, or the legislative committee said the things that we do not support in relation to this bill. I would add that Mr Galambos, in his presentation of the majority position, explained that the Legislative Committee was united in supporting the part of this bill on the basis of which the members of the Justice Office may be entitled to an additional salary. We certainly support this, but we cannot support any other part of the bill. Then we have highlighted a number of things, if I may, and I would like to emphasise one again. Among these legal acts is the fact that the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly is hidden. According to the amendment of the Act, the Speaker of the House not only provides public office holders listed in point 21, from the President of the Republic through the members of the Media Council and so on, with a public official's card, but also, and I quote precisely:. Other persons defined by law. As the justification doesn't give us any explanation for who we might be thinking about, perhaps the lex Habony has just been created. Árpád Habony may now receive such an I.D. with this, although when he summarized the debate, Mr Secretary of State pointed out that he did not think so. We don't know if that's gonna happen, which is why we're living with the suspicion that this might happen. On the whole, we also consider it not a fortunate solution that this certain public-law official ID may be donated by someone other than the Speaker. We do not understand why, therefore, it was introduced into this legislation, because in our view it should have been included in the Act on Central Government Administrations and the Legal Status of the Government, not in the Act on Parliament. Overall, the Hungarian Socialist Party rejects the bill as a result of further difficulty in the situation of those in the public service, or as a result of the violation of fundamental rights of the Law on Criminal Procedure. That is what we expressed in the presentation of the minority opinion and in the Legislative Committee, which, of course, remained a minority, and that is what I should have told you now. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[21.10]]
u2015-03-02-304	Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2015-03-02-305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking, while listening to the minority opinion, that the Parliament was discussing a bill at two readings, and even the committees were discussing it. In this bill, as this is our last opportunity to debate, I am not mistaken if I will hear back all the criticisms that I have denied at every forum I have ever held. So, both in the general debate and in the detailed debate, the committee and, of course, the same criticisms will be presented now. Nevertheless, I will try to convince you once again that the bill is for good and good purposes. But I will not convince you that I will repeat our position in the general debate, but I would like to highlight the main criticisms. Thus, the first criticism was about whether the bill was properly and legally agreed. The main objection to the bill was criticism of the lack of consultation with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum. Well, as I have indicated, I have already said it on the committee, but I will now state our position. I would like to inform you that the bill has been discussed with the Hungarian Faculty of Government officials and the Hungarian Union of Officials, Civil Service Workers and Civil Service Workers, Mr Zoltán Kovács and Mr Csaba Latorcai Deputy State Secretary. On the basis of the misinterpretation of the Public Service Officers Act, the observation that, in the absence of a request for the opinion of the CCCTB, the bill cannot be negotiated would not have a public-law validity requirement. The practice of the Constitutional Court is clear on the issue. Invalidity in public law results only from the fact that a law imposes specific legal opinion on a particular body, including the rules of the opinion procedure. In the case of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, such rules cannot be discussed. According to the practice of the Constitutional Court, the acquisition of the opinion of social and interest representation bodies without public powers is not a condition for the validity of the law by public law. So once again, the most important member organisations of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum, who are public service workers' interest representation bodies, have been consulted on the legislation. Not with the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum itself, because the rapporteur considers that this consultation is not necessary. By the way, I have also said this, if the members' organisations of the Civil Service Stakeholder Forum had thought that the entire CCF should be consulted and convened, they would have obviously taken the initiative to do so. Another such criticism was in the context of amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure. It has already been clarified that the Criminal Procedure Act contains the term "prevention of crime." Thus, another reference to the prevention of crime cannot be alien to criminal proceedings, not so much so that the provisions on the prevention of crime and the initiation of other proceedings are indirectly part of a system of instruments for one of the essential purposes of criminal proceedings. Contrary to the proposed amendment, the one who wanted to leave this section on preventing crime, therefore, contrary to the proposed amendment, the criminal instrument associated with the enforcement of crime prevention is therefore not considered to be an area outside criminal law. The Law on Criminal Procedure 75. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act provides, in a justified manner, for the exercise of evidence, examination of the circumstances involved and for the taking of action on ancillary matters in criminal proceedings. The next question is the rules of unilateral change of appointment. Here it was controversial for you to increase the length of your trip back and forth. During the general debate, I have also said that I stress that this is a change in appointments within a given settlement. The amendment to commute actually serves the purpose of keeping the government official's job. In the present case, if the employer's establishment changes because, for budgetary reasons, the former properties can no longer be rented or maintained, it is possible that the commuting period will increase. In this case, if the government official does not accept a change in his appointment, the employer will have no choice but to terminate his legal relationship, since he can only provide the place of work in the properties he rents or has available. In the event of a change of appointment due to a change of job, the amendment allows the government official to request a waiver only when specific adverse circumstances occur. It should continue to be stressed that the guarantee that a government official can be appointed in a job that is appropriate to his qualifications, qualifications and health, is, of course, also relevant for the unilateral change of appointment, so that the resultant disadvantage should not affect the government official. The rules of secondment between the metropolitan and county government offices were also contested. The creation of an institution for the secondment of government agencies is precisely intended to ensure that the difficulties encountered in practice are resolved by government agencies in such a way that they are not detrimental to government officials. The special situation of the administrative bodies, which did not function in all counties, had a special area of competence, no special expertise could be replaced from anywhere else, thus justifying the possibility of secondment between government offices. The bill aims to ensure that the interests of citizens, government officials and employers are not harmed by a number of guarantee rules. Dear House, I think that the criticisms of the bill may have been due to some misconception, perhaps not sufficiently thought out. I do not dispute that the opposition may at any time have a problem with a bill tabled by the government, but I ask that their criticism remain objective. Such a criticism of the identity of public officials is not very objective. As our fellow Member, who described the minority opinion of the committee, said earlier, there must be other legal provisions in place here, or there must be a legal provision at all, in order to obtain such an ID issued by the President of the Parliament. So it is not possible that someone who is required by another law to be accompanied by an I.D. should receive an I.D. from the Speaker of Parliament. So there's definitely a legal basis for receiving such an ID. I therefore find it pointless that any person entering or entering Parliament would assume or accuse us of issuing a public official ID. By the way, the opposition, not us, but the President of Parliament, is accusing someone who is not legally entitled to do so, that the President of Parliament wants to issue an ID. This criticism is neither objective nor factual. Mr President, this is what I wanted to do to facilitate the debate. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-306	Thank you. I would like to inform the author that there is a roughly one minute left to say the closing word. The designated and associated committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to address it within the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. This means that Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. [[21.20]]
u2015-03-02-307	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I regret that Mr Secretary of State was not here when I explained my thoughts on public invalidity in the debate on the two-minute bill, which is equally true. I'm forced to think about it for a while, although I can't repeat it in the absence of time, but I can recapture the arguments there. Mr. Secretary. We can agree that if there is a provision in the law - not elsewhere, in the law - who is to be consulted, then it may not be a good reason to consult many other people or other organisations, but not with the one who is prescribed in the law, right? That's what I think. I have also said, Mr. Secretary of State, and I will say the same for the third time, for your sake, for example, that the fact that, say, two judges have been consulted on a proposal does not trigger the need to consult the entire court organisation, even if those two judges do not tell you that they think that the whole organization should be consulted. You should know that, Mr. Secretary, and not others should draw attention to it. And I have also said, Mr Secretary of State, and I would like to reiterate that if there is a law - you are talking about it - the 2011 CXCIX. Law 198. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 states that the KÉF is responsible for matters relating to the living and working conditions and conditions of employment of government officials and civil servants employed in the public administration. These laws have quite a number of them, and we can agree on that. Paragraph 3 states that the opinion of the CEA is to be sought. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, you know, Mr. Secretary of State? - matters falling within the scope of paragraph 2 of this Article. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but the argument you're making in this circle is simply unacceptable. I understand you've told me many times that doesn't make it any more acceptable. The other, and to say something new, Mr Secretary of State, in parentheses, has not responded to the substance of my argument on Be. I hope that the remainder will do so in one minute, because one of the critical elements was that I believe that the term crime or the term crime prevention is basically criminological and not criminal procedural. We've made that very clear. But you have not yet said, Mr State Secretary, why, from a substantive point of view, the criminal procedural law should be regulated in this way. From a point of view, Mr Secretary, you have not said one word. I do not wish to repeat again, I say, in the absence of time, the previous arguments, unless Fidesz finally gives us the 25 minutes that it will never use in these debates. But to tell you something else, Mr. Secretary, you've lost two thirds of them, and you're already playing tricks. This is now seen well, and it became evident at the Legislative Committee meeting. There has been a procedural problem, although I think it is rather content, to which we have also called a meeting of the House Committee today, and the House Committee has also met on this issue. For the sake of those who are not fully aware of the Hungarian constitutional regulations, I would like to say two or three preliminary sentences. The Fundamental Law defines what constitutes a fundamental law, in simple terms: two-thirds acceptable law, plus you have also figured out that in these cases the law must be accompanied by a so-called fundamentality clause, which determines which of the provisions of that law, which sections are fundamental, i.e. two-thirds acceptable. For five years, Mr Secretary of State, you have never suggested that a two-thirds regulation is indeed two-thirds, whether or not a provision contained in a fundamental clause constitutes two-thirds, whether or not it is fundamental under the Fundamental Law. You lost a two-thirds majority here in Parliament a few days ago, and you're already playing tricks. They haven't done it for five years, now that they've lost two thirds, they're doing it now. And they came up with that provision, which, by the way, is now included in the polarity clause as a two thirds-acceptable cornerstone of the law, but it's not. And they begin to explain, let us now ignore the fact that, rightly, for a reason or without, but for the first time, that the two-thirds have been lost, they begin to argue that the Fundamental Law does not give rise to the fact that it is necessary to be included in the polarity clause, so they want to withdraw this section, this paragraph from the polarity clause, by a split decision. Dear Secretary of State, Let me ask you why you have now come to the idea that this is being reviewed in relation to the polarity clause or any provision, because so far it has been simply adopted by a two-thirds majority. I can't do this now. And where are we going to get to, Mr. Secretary? The fact that the Constitutional Court will decide later whether you are right or not, but in the event that you wish to amend two-thirds of the laws, you will say that, therefore, the Fundamental Law does not give rise to the fact that this is a fundamental law, because you, the esteemed government, appreciate it, are the pro-government majority, and therefore these provisions are excluded from the polarity clause and are simply adopted by a half law. This will be the new practice, Mr. Secretary of State, that what you do not like and need to be modified by two thirds, and since most of you do not have it, will you be withdrawn? We will vote every time that these will be removed from the polarity clause, and then, on the basis of subjective interpretation, you will decide whether or not that section can be derived from the Fundamental Law? Secretary of State, what you do in legislation is no better than what you've done in the last four years. Even though you have been called from the Speaker of the House to the Speaker, to the former Speaker, to the current President of the Republic, all of your own, that this cannot go on. Secretary of State, you've lost two-thirds of your majority. Take this to the conclusion that the voters don't want to give you a two-thirds majority. Then take note of this, and if you want to pass laws of this kind, you should consult with the opposition parties, not play tricks, as you have done so far. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-02-308	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a three-minute frame.
u2015-03-02-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I appreciate that Mr Répássy, State Secretary, is at least involved in the debate, whether in terms of preventing crime, the crime to be persecuted, probable cause or any question. But what I would like to say is that these revelations are trying to put together a confused, incomprehensible system, because the law on civil servants is known by the Secretary of State as at 20. Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the part of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this sense, I may not need to explain further that this issue should be dealt with less. What I would like to deal with is the fact of the secondment itself, where consent is not required in accordance with this issue, and within a year the public servant, the government's public servant, can be assigned for a maximum of six months. Technically, this involves a level of burden and brings to life anomaly of a level that, by cutting red tape from Zoltán Kovács's words, gives the entrepreneur virtually two ways. One is to live his life with an enormous increase in the burden he may have had, or to give way to the practice of getting fired more easily than it has been before. The other question I would like to ask you to answer is why the Fidesz government staffing has to be legitimized. I'll give you an example: you know, in respect of the members of the supervisory board of public foundations founded by the State and many others, or you mentioned the identity of the public service, those who hold public office. I think that this needs to be made clear. A public-law certificate is due to a person who holds a public-law office, not just any law, because it, I believe, gives rise to a multitude of questions. And my last thought is that in the relations between the employer and the employee, the issue of mutual information was raised within the framework of this bill. I think the Vida-Varga pair has been a very good example of this in terms of mutual information over the past few years. Now, you have to look at this bill with such seriousness, in my opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[21.30]]
u2015-03-02-310	I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2015-03-02-311	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The bill serves basically good purposes, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, even said that the bill serves good and good purposes. Indeed, if we look at the fact that trust in the public sector, the strengthening of public confidence, as defined as a goal, is indeed a good goal, and we would all agree with that. However, if you just look at the good and the right goals, sometimes you think a little further, and you think of Machiavelli, and that the end justifies the means, then the goal is indeed good, but then you shouldn't choose in the means, and you should be able to serve the good purpose that we think is a good goal, so that can be part of it. But let's open this up a little bit to see what it looks like. The strengthening of public confidence and the fact that a civil servant, a civil servant, a government official should not be one of the criminals, we fully agree with these regulations in all respects, and this indeed strengthens public confidence. The fact that prosecutors must indicate that the criminal proceedings have been brought towards the employer of the civil servant and government official, we agree with this, because in such a job, the head of the workplace must be aware of the accusations of the worker concerned, because he is suspected of being prosecuted, there is no. I'm sure you have the right to know that. So these are important questions. So we agree that the goal here is good and the goal is right, and that it must serve them. However, the means by which we implement them are in dispute with us. Mr Secretary of State quoted very nicely here in the context of the general debate that the public administration is the face of the state, which is true, only in this case there is a small blow to the nose in this law, where we smack the face of the administration, at least in some respects the people who give this face to the public administration in Hungary. We have already said in the general debate that we are fundamentally in agreement with these objectives, and we have also said that we could support this bill if the amendments that we are debating were to go through, and we say that those amendments would be good amendments, but these amendments have not been made before the Justice Committee and in the Legislative Committee. Why not, we can't agree with that. Mr Secretary of State mentioned a lot here in his previous speech. He didn't convince me that they were right. What the kjt. 39. §1, which is already Article 1 of this law. §2 of the Act, we have also tabled an amendment to the civil servant's law that the person subject to criminal proceedings cannot have a civil servant's relationship. We would change that a little bit in the sense that if the indictment had already taken place, it would not really be possible to establish such a relationship. Obviously, the presumption of innocence as a guarantee principle plays a role in the submission of this amendment. Our other amendment, which did not go through the committee, is also very important in terms of the well-being of civil servants, government officials and their fairer employment, since many have been transferred from the municipality and are now employed by district offices, the government has promised that their salary, their salary, will not fall, will not change negatively. We have seen that this legislation will also give us the opportunity, and we have the opportunity to do so in full under Article 41. We have proposed the repeal of Section 3. In our view, if this legislation is left out of the proposal, it will not be possible to go in a negative direction according to the government's promise to civil servants that it will not be able to reduce workers' wages. We would consider this an important guarantee element. It was also such a proposal on our part, which concerns unilateral appointments, and Mr Secretary of State also spoke about these unilateral appointments. This is about the new job, the three-hour journey, which is the 17th. § (1) is formulated. In any case, we consider this three - hour journey to be a great deal. Mr Secretary of State has suggested that we take into account the fact that this three-hour journey takes place within a given settlement, i.e. an hour and a half. I think that when an employee has to travel to work and travel for an hour and a half, it doesn't matter if he travels within a given city for an hour and a half, or if he travels between two cities for an hour and a half. I think that doesn't mean much easier at all, and we don't agree with that. We would keep the previous regulation in this regard. I would also like to point out here that you also mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that in that case the civil servant, civil servant, should be terminated. I'm still saying it doesn't have to be stopped. He can be offered not to sign that contract unilaterally, but bilaterally, and then he can still consider the employee, the civil servant, the civil servant, the government official whether he wants to work on this condition or not, and I think in this case it would certainly be the fairer solution. Similarly, our next proposal to amend the law was related to the secondment, which is once again a unilateral change in the legal relationship, according to which the consent of the government official is not required in certain cases. What we consider most wrong about this is that a government official can be appointed for six months without his consent. It's a very long time. There is also a rule in this paragraph that allows a government official to be seconded not only for six months, but also for a longer period, in which case, there is a rubber rule, which says that until the task is performed. And how long the task is to be performed, and then the head of the workplace will determine whether it is over. So this could be an impenetrable period, which cannot be determined, and you do not know that in six months it will be over. So these are guarantee issues that would always protect the worker. As the Secretary of State has said, these goals are beautiful, these goals are right, these goals are good, true, only the means of achieving them are something that you may not be happy to do, especially against workers who have been there for decades in the civil servants, civil servants and government officials sector. I think that they should be better protected by these instruments in this bill, and that is why we say that the goals are really good, but the instruments are not. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-02-312	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2015-03-02-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to briefly summarise our position on this amendment before us. Obviously, it is a technical amendment with these two substantial parts, which has been said before. On the one hand, the Office of Justice increases the salary supplement to 50 per cent of its basic salary in the case of a government official with a higher education degree. There is a reason to attract additional tasks and the necessary expertise associated with the system of enforcement placed under guardianship, which is fine, of course, but we consider it rather arbitrary. Especially in view of the stagnating wages that have been stagnating for a long time or even declining by reorganisations. The second part, which is much more interesting, and we think it is of great importance, of course we cannot go beyond the fact that there is a very visible picture of the two-thirds of the political events in this area, and the first example of the Fidesz being trapped in its own corner. Regardless of whether, where appropriate, it is a non-essential provision, there is a discreet charm that the only fundamental provision of the bill, the provision amending the rules of the Parliamentary Rules of the Public Officials' Certificate, is now suddenly excluded from the House Regulations to be adopted by the two-thirds vote of the Members of Parliament present. We believe that this is completely unacceptable. We believe that Fidesz has come to a point where we have to think very seriously about whether it goes beyond that river. Obviously, this has consequences that cannot be seen. We sincerely hope that they will withdraw in respect of this point and do not take this step. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]] [[21.40]]
u2015-03-02-314	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] If not, I'll give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy in a minute.
u2015-03-02-315	Thank you, Mr. President. So in a minute, in a telegram style, I try to answer the questions raised. Congressman Bárándy, I maintain my position that the obligation to negotiate is a matter of interpretation. The failure of the bill to comply with public law can be challenged, and the Fundamental Law provides an appropriate procedure in this regard. The cardinality clause is not a two-thirds provision. According to the Constitutional Court, it has an information function. I would like to point out to Mr Gúr that the possibility of secondment still exists in the public service relationship, such as the possibility of secondment between ministries now. The bill would also allow for secondment between government offices. Of course, the limitations on secondment, the guarantee rules, do not change. Congressman Gyure agrees with the goals, not with the means, that's half the success, I might say. I repeat to Congressman Ikotity that the polarity clause is not, in our view, a two-thirds provision. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
u2015-03-02-316	The debate is now closed, and the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. This brings us to the end of the debate on today's agenda, and now the speeches after the agenda. Today, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech after the agenda: Mr Horthy was elected governor 95 years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On important anniversaries, the Hungarian thinking in the nation always makes a reckoning, and this is also the occasion today, because yesterday was 95 years since the National Assembly elected Miklós Horthy as governor. As governor, he had less than 24 years than the time since the change of regime, and unfortunately part of it was in the time of the Great Depression and World War II, and because of geopolitical constraints, say those who abuse Horthy's dust, it would have been difficult to miss out. Before the polcorrets become outraged, it is wiser to look at events in their historical context, for for example, in 29 - 38 years before the ban on marriage between blacks and whites was abolished, the otherwise only temporarily introduced numerus claususus was also eliminated. So let's look at the facts and compare them to the period since 90. What has he been able to do from official powers to this day's undeserving statue, constantly insulted by the extreme liberal circles, and with the family motto of duty ahead of life, among the European statesmen, the last of the knights who, when he resigned, had the same land fortune as he had in his election? What inheritance did he receive, and what did he do with this gloomy legacy? We're only gonna appreciate it if we know what kind of trying, heroic work he had ahead of him. The situation was tragic. We lost the world war, and it proclaims suicide pacifism against the Antente, but the Kárpát-Hazat army of the Romanian army, which is almost all-armed by the Székely division's hero soldiers, who shot the most powerful soldiers of the world war, the Somogyi 44th Infantry regiment, known as the goddamn goat, took full arms and sent Gyula Bauer into house arrest, made sure that we didn't have a chance in Trianon. Horthy had to recover a broken country from a Hungarian social disaster that had been completely robbed by Romanian troops, driven away from his homeland and crippled into a runaway caravan. But it created public security, where old people with their backs bent in their work, working their lives with honor, did not have to be afraid of jackals in human skin, of the Paleolite Stone Age, living on the level of the Paleolite Age, who regarded their fellow men as mere prey animals.In 1927 they introduced the pengo, the rare currency of Europe's mate, and the economic life was successfully reorganized, and they made it possible that by 29 we had already exceeded the production of the last year of peace by 12 percent. During the Klebelsberg public education reforms, thousands of new schools were built. We should also mention the amazing international recognition of Orion, Tungsram, Ganz factories, the number of doubled hospital beds, the increase of the expected average age from 40 to almost 60. We could list the merits from the start of railway electrification through rapid-step urban electrification and the development of the food industry, through the creation of the aluminium industry, to the expansion of social security. And what do we see now? The economic assassins of the method change and their domestic henchmen, the elite neoliberal vultures of the comprador, turned the nation out of the bulk of its productive assets, and the extorted workers demoted to labor animals were thrown into Latin American misery. With our increasingly worse health indicators for four decades now, with astonishing mortality figures, as the sickest nation in all Europe, the domestic human reproductive disaster seems to be increasingly unsolvable. On the basis of Hungary's shockingly bad population figures, which are on the brink of demographic collapse, there are 3-4 deaths for each birth among the Hungarian population. And the exodus of young people without perspective is increasing. But is it a wonder that hundreds of thousands of eviscerated populations who have been cast into chemically pure colonial conditions seek refuge in the national exodus? That's why we have to remember, remember, because the historical example gives us encouragement, guidance for all of us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-318	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr László György Lukács asked for a speech: I give food, I get food - it depends only on a box entitled Helping others. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's speech is about a green box in Pécs, and why a green box might be interesting, and how the boots get on the table or that box in the National Assembly is made up of them. I'll give you food - I'll get something to eat - it's on the metal cabinet that Imre Morvay, Father Pio, put up on the Munkácsy street fence of the Hospital of Mercy in Pécs. This is where helpful citizens can place food intended for those in need. The unique initiative in Pécs works well, for example, on Christmas and New Year's Day. The operating order of the box is as follows: someone who has an excess in his home - that is, an excess from home - but can still be eaten for those in need. They feed by taking leftovers, unopened foods, for who would not have enough of their freshly cooked food at home to give. In fact, there are already families who are consciously cooking to take me into the box. On the other hand, the needy, many are homeless, but not only are they, but they are difficult adults in crisis situations, and families are able to come and serve themselves several times a day. Of course, placements provide maintenance, proper cleaning, disinfection, removal of non-compliant dangerous or already corrupted or easily perishable foods. This is also an excellent initiative so that those who wish to donate anonymously can do their part. How well the initiative worked, the newspaper of Pécs reports about it, quoting a sentence of the needy, which the person in need said to the staff member. According to the homeless man, everyone goes there for food, and he only takes as much as he personally needs, and he leaves the rest to others. "Bread," he added, "can be found almost every time, and sometimes 3 or 4 kilos at the same time. The man had been most pleasantly surprised on New Year's Day, since it was jelly and fried meat - in parentheses. It is spreading during the initiative and is already being introduced by civilians in several places. Although Father Morvay Pio did not implement the donation box on the basis of a foreign example, there are examples of similar initiatives elsewhere. For example, in Berlin, refrigerators have been placed at several points in the city, where anyone can enter, and the still good food left at home, or food supplies, can be stored there. 1500 volunteers work in the project, they collect the food, they even go to the house, they sort it out according to warranty, and they divide it up so that it gets around evenly everywhere. [[21.50]] They also operate a website, the site shows where food can be taken, and which fridges may need cut-off, cheese, or any other food. Currently there are twenty-one fridges all over the city, and the first ones are placed in the vicinity of markets and large market halls. However, in relation to the future of the Hungarian initiative, this is how the brainstormer, the father, put it:. It is possible that in the future food will be distributed only at a given time of day, because there have been several times that, for example, a mother in need of more than one child could not find food in it. •Also, knowing this example, it is worth to filter out important experiences, and the experiences of what such an initiative is good for. For example, it is good for the education of violently begging homeless people, but it can also be good for a study visit to help children improve their social sensitivity and solidarity with fellow humans. It can also serve to make you aware that those who are now wasting can surely find that they have extra pounds, and that they can use this surplus for good, but they can also realize that any such initiative is important when there are holes in the social network. The initiative to be followed shows that there is a need for such crates, there is a need to help others, and not to fight with Brussels, but to put something on the table. There is much to learn from the government, but we also have to learn from the initiative: we need to join together and place boxes in as many places as possible, there must be a green box at every church and NGO, and there must be an opportunity to feed and feed more and more places. That's the story of the green box in Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-02-320	In response to the next agenda, Mr Kiss spoke with Mr László on the subject of the Buda-Cash scandal. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before we begin this Buda-Cash scandal, I think that on behalf of all of us, we can thank Mr Varga Simeon, a nationalist, for the initiative that many people here are wearing on their jackets with me. It's a martenica, and the Bulgarian ethnicities welcome spring. I think it would be good if this spring were here with us, and it would have been good if it had been here at today's Parliament meeting; I think we would have preferred to have seen the buds rather than hear how Rogán Antal is lying about the Buda-Cash case today. But let's see what's real about this case. On Sunday evening, February 22nd, black cars and co-workers in suits began gathering at the Buda-Cash headquarters. This is a strange time, Sunday night, until Monday morning this movement took place. Obviously, it is not that the bankers or brokers were suddenly unable to work, so they went to work between 8:00 and Monday morning between 4:00 p.m. on Sunday night, but rather that the staff of Buda-Cash had been informed that something was going on, something was going to be checked here, and obviously, in order to facilitate the investigation authorities' activities on Monday, they prepared the materials that were obviously needed for this investigation. As a result of this, the Hungarian National Bank and the seconded economic investigators had already obtained results very soon on Monday, and they also involved the permissions of Buda-Cash and the banks belonging to this group of companies, causing a huge crisis. You don't know exactly what's going on. There is a weekly paper that claimed that there was some kind of ping-pong played by the brokerage owners, and others suspect otherwise, which is little to be known about now. What is certain is that on Tuesday, the brokerage company's license was immediately suspended and, as I said, the associated banks were also suspended; four banks were involved. These decisions rocked, I think, the Hungarian banking system. For example, in Somogy closed doors welcomed customers who wanted to get their money, there were technical obstacles for Hungarians to get their money on Monday and Tuesday. This is also interesting because, by the way, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank - obviously to protect the small people - immediately maximized the amount to 60 thousand forints; of course, the people were also protected by this, because it was clearly not on the side of the Hungarian National Bank, but on the side of the people. Well, then, even the group of companies made sure that on Mondays and Tuesdays they couldn't get their hands on this money in a lot of places. Of course, the bankers in Somogy who were raging with Fidesz politicians did not stop here, it can be said that either in Barcson or in Kaposvár there were tumultuose scenes when people wanted to get their money, or they wanted to pick up the 60,000 HUF alms approved by György Matolcsy instead of their rightful reward. But people in Tokaj or Miskolc or Kazincbarcika also stood in line; they could tell about this; they likewise thanked Mr.György Matolcsy, who was there, for taking out 60,000 forints if the companies were otherwise graciously open. Of course, the question was raised in everyone's mind that while during the five years of the Fidesz government, this group of companies continued to pursue its operations in front of the government and the Hungarian National Bank, how could it be that the Hungarian National Bank then maximizes, almost in the first step, the money that these customers are entitled to receive. And while we can also talk about the fact that this was necessary, of course, because the mass debts of Hungarian people would have bankrupted this group of companies, it is in fact that no one wanted to pay their salary to these people, and the Hungarian government, the Hungarian National Bank, was a partner. The government should not be concerned with the fact that Antal Rogán finds all kinds of lying tales by the Fidesz communicators, but with protecting the victims; it should explain how the Fidesz government has been able to do this in front of the government and the Hungarian National Bank for five years. That's what we're waiting for.
u2015-03-02-322	Mr Lajos Kepli came forward to speak after his next agenda, with a title on gas issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, there has been a lot of talk about gas issues, so the issues related to our gas supply are also in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. I would also like to make use of this opportunity tonight, at this late hour, to inform the television viewers, if not, but perhaps on the Internet, of those following the broadcasts and a few fellow Members who are still following the meeting here at this late hour. Today we have already talked about the problem of gas supply in Hungary as a result of the neighbouring conflict in Ukraine, east of us, in gas supply. Last week, Gazprom's statement was an ongoing topic in the press, according to which if Ukraine does not pay the current amount of gas due, then the gas tap will be closed to Ukraine, or only the transit volume will be transferred to Ukraine, which Ukraine will best have to forward to Europe. Yes, but we have seen a similar situation in 2008, when Russia also closed the gas taps to Ukraine due to non-payment, when the Ukrainian government drained the transit lines, so much less gas came to Europe and caused a gas crisis, among other things, in Hungary. Since then, gas storage capacity in Hungary has increased significantly and has become a state property, which was also supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement here in Parliament. It is extremely useful for the state to have a large storage capacity for such cases, but the fact is that for a few weeks it may be enough to supply Hungarian households or a month or two, but we need to think in the long term about how we will replace Ukraine's transit, where we will obtain natural gas, if Russia has fulfilled its promise to completely eliminate Ukraine as a transit country from 2019. The fact is that Hungary has cross-border capacities and gas pipelines in all directions, but it is only able to move outwards towards Romania and Croatia, it cannot come in, that is to say, it cannot supply our country from that direction. Another question is whether there is a source of gas coming from these pipelines at all, as there is not yet a liquid gas terminal in Croatia, LNG terminal, from which we could possibly expect some amount of natural gas. [[22.00]] The second is that, where we build our pipeline, we can get back Russian natural gas, which, according to Jobbik Hungary Movement, is not a problem, because at least the route is diversified, but it would not hurt to find out how we can get the stable Russian gas we now receive through Ukraine. On 1 December in Ankara, Presidents Vladimir Putin and Erdoğan agreed that the Turkish pipeline will be built towards Turkey, where some 60 billion cubic metres of gas will reach the border between Turkey and Greece from Russia. Of this, about 15-20 billion cubic metres are committed to Turkey for its own purpose, and the rest will be transferred to its own countries of destination by Europe, as it pleases. Among other things, we would like to see this gas get to Hungary somehow. We haven't heard anything concrete since. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán at a press conference last week with Turkish Prime Minister Davutoğlu said that there were ideas and that they would be examined how to get gas from this distribution point to Hungary. I think that we should go much further than that, because time is extremely pressing for us, and if we want Hungarian consumers, Hungarian people, to be properly supplied with natural gas in the longer term in the coming years, and to be able to heat in winter, or to use this natural gas for other purposes, then we would need concrete plans, and even at the approval stage, these plans should take several years to build a gas pipeline. We also said that we prefer the Macedonia-Serbia-Hungary route, and we urge that there be a solution to this issue, and that we use all the forums to say this here in front of the National Assembly and outside the National Assembly. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-02-324	To speak after the next agenda, István Ikotity, Member of the Council, asked for the real solution. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, March arrived, the establishment of the State Health Care Center, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health, the OEP received several tasks, while the hospital conversion plan already shows the signs that it is highly questionable how much results this process will bring. The effectiveness of the county settlement of hospitals is highly doubtful. All that remains is questions. And to solve unsolved problems, who knows how long we'll have to wait. Based on the negotiations, it is not apparent that unnecessary beds and unnecessary costs could be discovered and eliminated by magic. Hospital mergers and terminations hanging over our heads are not as easy and effective as their dreamers have come up with. Rather, it turns out that everyone would be happier if the transformation were to take place in a few months if, in the end, this so-called efficiency improvement was not a fragmentation of hospitals. So what has so far been achieved by the government with the conversion fever? There seems to be a lot of unnecessary negotiations, because eventually they will dream of breaking classes and merging. He also reached the point of finding out how many settlements were unsolved by acceptable quality care, how, and how difficult commutes would be expected by those who had been able to provide hospital care within the city. But perhaps the most important thing you've achieved is that you've made it clear how wrong the approach the government is following. Instead of a comprehensive solution, he tries to redistribute already insufficient resources in such a way that there is somehow more in the end. But the miracle they're looking for doesn't happen. The amount of money that has been - and there has been little - for health care remains little. In the meantime, we can see what has been said in advance by the workers in the profession: it is simply impossible to provide more without providing a serious financial resource. Those responsible should not be sought among the hospital managers, but should have a transformation concept in which there is sufficient time to coordinate and explore parallels, capacities and opportunities, and to assess problems. It's time to realize that. The system is full of decades of problems to mention only one thing, in recent days it has been rumoring that shopping carts are used in the Szeged Children's Clinic for transport between classes and the operating theatre. While it is to be welcomed that they have managed to find a solution to the difficulties encountered during the transport of children, it is disappointing how many and how many situations healthcare workers are in the same state of emergency when there is no money for work equipment, medicines or often bandages when there is not enough framework for treatment or payment of wages, when waiting lists are swelling because of insufficient resources. And the shopping carts have been on duty for 17 years, which also means that if they weren't so resourceful there, they'd wait for money for normal hospital equipment someday. Real solutions can also be expected in vain because not only restructurings remain at the level of pretend measures, but also wage planning. I just hope they didn't mean it, that doctors don't get paid for their work, they get paid for fixing the clot. Just as they don't really think they want to wait years for any salary increase. Perhaps I should consider the warning signal that professional organisations, including the Hungarian Medical Chamber, have already stated in a uniform way that the imaginary conditions are unacceptable. But we cannot forget the other health professionals, who are also forced to leave the country, because their salaries alone are not sufficient to maintain decent living conditions, and their hard work does not receive adequate financial appreciation. The real solution can no longer be seen because, in addition to restructuring, we should ensure that the hospital's debts do not regenerate, and this requires an increase in the OEP rates, i.e. the tariffs simply did not keep pace with price changes over the past decades. Without it, however, it is unthinkable to escape from a hospital debt spiral. Somehow, we do not see that there is any intention to do so, although it is an important basic requirement for the sustainable management of hospitals. However, we can easily understand why there is no real change. Obviously, political interests here override the interests of health, much more important, and these must be overcome if they are to move towards real and non-sympathetic developments in health. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-02-326	Mr Sallai R. Benedek came forward to speak after the next agenda:. Thoughts on horse breeding in connection with an anniversary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will immediately tell you what this anniversary is so that I do not leave my fellow Members here in great excitement. Baron József Csekonics was born a few days ago, and he was the general, the Hungarian military officer, who was the second. During Joseph's time, he was assigned to restore the herd of horses that broke down in the Austrian succession war. Accordingly, his anniversary was now in December, and 230 years ago he restored the herd estate in Mezőhegyes in order to reboot Hungarian horse breeding and military horse supplies. He did not believe that he had to work with imported horses and expensive foreign studs with a very interesting application other than a European approach. He collected the Hungarian good hussar horse stock and tried to start horse breeding in order to start breeding as many good horses as possible for military purposes. Baron Chekonics' activity and life were very much connected with his age, and like him, great-great horse-breeding personalities, such as Michael Fadallah el Hedad and similar Hungarian military officers and knights, did so to ensure and establish Hungarian horse-breeding. Accordingly, the farm or the Hungarian State Ménes, as I said, was based 230 years ago, and for 230 years after that, horse breeding was also the star of its activities. Our native Hungarian horse, called Furioso-north star or semi-blood, is called Mezőhegyes, the gidran, which also contains the Arab bloodline, the nonius and the field-hegyes sports horse are the four Hungarian horses that are related to Mezőhegyes, and the field-hegyes nugget was the lowland nugget that helped to feed and breed these species. A lot of damage has been done to this stud farm, for example, the first of the burglar Romanian troops was to move the entire herd from here to Romania, causing very large and sensitive damage to the still sensitive parts of the horse army. [[22.10]] The reason I mentioned the Romanians and the great damage that the herd has suffered is because damage like this is happening today. The state stud, which has been maintained for a long time by the socialist system, like many other Hungarian values in which there is something or where there is value, has been privatised. It is not possible to know who stole first, so I would not like to see if the MSZP governments or the Fidesz governments have stolen the first state property in these areas, but we can see that it is not the heart of the government at this time, because the fields of farmland were announced. Obviously, it is possible to think that this is a large economy, an economy which the government does not like to see in its words now, while filling its pockets with saying the opposite, but the fact is that it is this farm in Mezőhegyes that, as one of the last resorts of Hungarian horse breeding, has maintained the Hungarian horse tradition, horse sports education with the activities of horse sports instructors, and the acquisition of start permits, which is already in decline. A government claiming to be national and civil, which in 2010 committed itself in words to the implementation of the equestrian programme - this was the Treasurem Horse Programme - has unfortunately not taken any meaningful steps, just as in the case of the national rural strategy. It would be very, very important not only to save the stud estates, not only to protect the indigenous Hungarian breed of horses, but in the Kincsem National Horse Programme, in many cases also to perform the other tasks that are not pursued. A single structure should be created for the development of a sustainable model of state studs, which is not the case at present, since there are three types of organisational structures for the five state studs. State studs are indispensable, but their exclusivity does not solve the production of the sector, which is a good example of the Budapest Grand Prix in the National Lovarda in July 2014. This is an example of the efforts to bring together at national level in order to maintain the sector. The definition of the role of state studs in training would be a state task, but there are no government resources for this, and unfortunately there is a completely different distribution and approach in the FM, and there is no money available for this. There is no resource for the professional creation of the breeding and testing of Hungarian breeds of horses, nor is there any background in helping them to access the market. Unfortunately, on the anniversary of the birth of József Csekonics, I cannot talk meaningfully about the future of Hungarian horse breeding, although it is a sector that the government has undertaken in words, but has done little. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-02-328	Member Mihály Witzmann has also applied for a post-scheduled speech:, Buda-Cash, where is the cash? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-02-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we all know, the Hungarian National Bank has suspended the license of the Buda-Cash Broker house several days ago, suspecting a series of decades of abuse. The Hungarian National Bank confirms that the Buda-Cash scandal lost nearly HUF 100 billion of customers' money. We all have the right to ask ourselves what really happened. It seems that my fellow socialists - although they are no longer sitting here in their group - do not want to remember that during their governance, in 2009, Parliament adopted an amendment to the law that requires an on-the-spot check of investment market participants and savings cooperatives only every five years. I apologise to the notary, but I am glad that he represents the entire socialist faction in at least one person. Interestingly, after the 2010 parliamentary elections, but before the establishment of the Fidesz government, an investigation was ordered at Buda-Cash, which was closed the day before the new civilian government was established. However, the financial supervision at that time did not make any meaningful findings after the investigation. It is also reasonable and logical to ask why the abuses at Buda-Cash were not discovered during the 2010 investigations. The leaders of Buda-Cash knew precisely that only every five years an amendment to the law in 2009 required on-the-spot inspections of investment market participants and savings cooperatives, so that until the next parliamentary elections, there is no danger of a series of abuse and fraud that was already underway. We can ask again why this series of frauds was not discovered in the 2010 investigations. Why, just in May, before the establishment of the Orbán government, was it considered important for Buda-Cash to have a comprehensive five-year mandatory inspection? Did this have anything to do with the fact that Buda-Cash could thus have been exempted from a comprehensive on-the-spot check for the next five years until the next parliamentary elections? Well, after all these facts, I was really surprised and shocked to hear about the recent press conference of Gábor Harangozó, the representative of the Socialist Parliament, in which he tried to raise a suspicious question referring to the merger and community of interest between the leaders of the DRB Bank of Buda-Cash and the representatives of Fidesz Somogy County, as his colleague did in his speech. I find it extremely pathetic and forced that Gábor Harangozó and his socialist party companions are trying to prove sickly what is not. They are trying to discredit the governing parties on the basis of their political interests, which seek to gain popularity, in a case which has a clear history of retreating to socialist governance. It is also clear from the treatment of the current problem that Gábor Harangozó and his socialist fellows, in an uncomfortable situation, are rushing to the microphones quickly, using the principle of the attack, and wish to discredit the pro-government politicians with questions that cast the shadow of suspicion on their political opponents, while at the same time creating political popularity for themselves instead of dealing with people's problems, the financial difficulties of businesses and municipalities. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest the socialists look inside and look into their memories. And if you are looking for mergers at all costs, remember that just under their administration, several senior officials at Buda-Cash have received very serious government and state mandates. And even though the memories of the socialist Gábor Bellozó are vague, he may not have forgotten where he lives. In contrast to him, I do not represent the interests of the people of Somogy from Budapest, I do not just go down to my constituency for a press conference, but I regularly go to the region to find out about the problems. That is why I propose to my fellow Member that he should not try to reach a more prominent place in the list of popularity with the puffing of malicious and empty phrases, but rather be more serious about people's problems instead of political quarteting, and, like the pro-government representatives, try to find solutions to eliminate the critical situation as soon as possible. I do not want to talk about that, but rather about what the civil government, which has been repeatedly accused by the socialists, has done in the Buda-Cash case. After the news exploded, the Ministry of National Economy and Interior set up a joint working committee to assess factually the consequences of the events at the Buda-Cash Broker House. The most important thing on the part of the government was to keep the municipalities, companies and individuals safe and to know the extent to which the National Deposit Insurance Fund and the Investor Protection Fund will be liable for compensation. Thanks to the rapid response, we now know that the municipalities concerned will receive their budgetary resources in a new account, so that public funding will continue to be provided. It was also decided that 67 of the municipalities in difficulty would receive an extraordinary grant of some HUF 245 million. Finally, I respectfully ask the members of the government, the National Bank of Hungary and the bodies involved in the handling of the brokerage scandal to do everything possible to ensure that the compensation of the victims can be done smoothly and as soon as possible. Therefore, those responsible must be found and their legal accountability should be carried out as soon as possible. Thank you.
u2015-03-02-330	Member Attila Gelencsér applied for a final statement after the last agenda:. Who is responsible for the situation at Takarékbank Zrt., Kaposvár, South Transdanubia? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[22.20]]
u2015-03-02-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, László Kiss and many others from the MSZP have witnessed the desperate, pathetic attempts of their legal representative to pin the second broker scandal on the government, the new socialist broker scandal. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank suspects decades of abuse at the Buda-Cash Broker House, according to some sayings it can continue since 1998. Therefore, he suspended his operating licence with immediate effect. The MNB closed Buda-Cash due to suspicion of a HUF 100 billion crime. On Monday, the MNB filed a criminal report against the competent police headquarters for suspicion of a criminal offence. At Buda-Cash brokerage, the DRB banking group, the Hungarian National Bank revealed serious financial maladministration and a deficit of up to HUF 100 billion. During the Key Price case, it became clear that there were mergers between the main players in the case and the family members and employees of leading politicians. This matter was so embarrassing for the socialists that even Károly Szász was legally removed from the head of the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. Joining my fellow Member, Mihály Witzmann, who referred to the socialist threads earlier, let us not forget that he was obviously not close to Fidesz, obviously Károly Antali, Chairman of the Buda-Cash Supervisory Board, under the Bajnai government, overseeing the transformation of MÁV as government commissioner. Obviously, Miklós Andrási is not close to Fidesz, who was appointed by Bajnai from Buda-Cash to the head of the MÁV. Obviously, János Gyarmati, a suspect in the Globex case, who was the CEO of the brokerage company for years, is not close, much more socialist. On 10 May, after the parliamentary elections, but even before the formation of the new government, as my fellow Member said, a strangely and strangely, on-the-spot check was carried out, which practically did not reveal any abuse, outside of a minimum penalty of HUF 3 million. The leaders of Buda-Cash knew very well that because of this amendment in 2009, the investigation would take place only every five years, so next time after the next elections in 2014. They obviously planned to win elections in 2010, get back in power, and they could have played their game from here on out. The comprehensive investigation of the Hungarian National Bank revealed the series of frauds in February, now in 2015, on the first day, which failed in 2010 at the Bajnai investigation. The question is why they did not discover in May 2010 what the Hungarian National Bank has now discovered. If the maladministration had then been discovered, then the people who are now concerned about László Kiss and the socialists could have been saved. I wonder if this had anything to do with Buda-Cash being fully exempted from on-the-spot checks for the next five years until the parliamentary elections. I'm very interested to know what Bajnai Gordon's government commissioner knew about the scam show. These issues need to be clarified by the authorities. But before we go any further, it is very important for me to say that individuals, businesses, municipalities and associations are both confused about the problems that have arisen by entrusting their savings to a bank that was operational. Yes, South Transdanubian Savings Bank Zrt. it was operational, with a balance sheet total of 43 billion, a deposit holding of nearly 30 billion and a loan of 12.5 billion. Is it possible that social brokers wanted people's money? Isn't that why the entire opposition protested against the integration of the savings cooperative? The more savings cooperatives are left out, the more money can be stolen. For these reasons, I would like to ask for the names of those responsible as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-02-332	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'll close the meeting with this. [[Meeting ended at 10:24 p.m.]]
