u2015-10-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The tenth day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Mirkóczki will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, from the LMP Group, spoke with the title "The Hungarian Workers Losers" for the last 25 years. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-20-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I wasn't planning on starting my speech with this, but I can't go without saying a word. Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó announced yesterday that the Hungarian Government supports the development of Audi's Győr Motor Factory by HUF 6 billion, for which Audi undertook to create 380 jobs. There are two things that need to be said here. On the one hand, this government action takes place in the middle of the Volkswagen scandal, which is difficult to overlook. The second thing I think is important to stress is that I do not fully understand how this step can be integrated into the new government communication, which was about reducing automotive dependence in this country. These are contradictions that must be discussed here in Parliament. But what I really want to talk about is that this step, this 6 billion forints awarded to the Audi, is how it strengthens the completely distorted economic structure, which is often recognised by Fidesz itself. In 2011, it was not me, but you who said that they would maximize subsidies to multinationals and said that a job created could not exceed HUF 5 million. Compared to this, if you look at how Audi is doing, this measure is already at HUF 15 million. By the way, it may be much more than that, as we remember that in 2011 they received nearly four times the amount announced publicly, 40 billion instead of 11, but this was only found much later. Can you think of what a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise with an average ability and potential could do with that kind of money? How many jobs could you develop? And these are the companies that take on a fate community with us, which do not take out the profits, but leave it at home in Hungary, and these are the companies when it goes well for the country or when it gets worse, but they try to stay here with us because they belong here. What does Fidesz do compared to that? Nothing more than what the socialists did. You're not the one who started this completely wrong economic policy. In fact, we remember that in 2010 the socialists could not stress that they had prepared the improvements that the Orbán government would then complete. Here is the problem, because the Hungarian workers are the losers of this development policy, because we clearly see that these money goes to places from which Hungarian people will not be strengthened, but companies will be strengthened, and multinational companies will. I would like you to see that with the low wages that you have the Hungarian people working with in this country, and with which the Prime Minister is housed, that, compared to how well-trained we are, how little we earn, we cannot build a strong Hungary. That's not what you do. You do nothing but consider at international level a competitive advantage of how cheap we are, try to attract these multinational companies with taxpayers' money, promise them different tax incentives - I have court proceedings to find out exactly how much discount these multinational companies have received - and then try to keep them here with different development money. I want someone in the government to think rationally about whether this is the most logical way to spend taxpayers' forints. They have to realize that without a wage increase, Hungarian workers will not be able to keep them at home, because this is the alternative. The Hungarian people refuse to become wage slaves in their own country and say that they will go abroad and do the same work for three or four times. There's plenty of demand for them, because we really are well trained. But I would like you to see that a assembly plant with Hungary, tyre factories and exhaust plants will not be able to offer young people perspectives. Instead of a assembly-Hungary, the LMP would like a Hungary where the current Prime Minister does not boast that we have cheap labour, no legislation that protects us, but we want to see the country of well-trained and paid Hungarian workers and Hungarian workers, we want to see a perspective here for young people who do have creativity, qualifications, skills and ambitions. When will you be able to ensure that these people have jobs, paid, secure jobs? I also welcome the fact that the socialists have finally started talking about workers' poverty. I want the whole Hungarian Parliament to talk about this, because this is Hungary's most important problem. At the same time, there is a contradiction. The contradiction is that it is not possible to demand a wage increase at the same time and to support an economic policy in which cheap labour is the key to competitiveness. We need a change of direction and we need a complete change of direction in Hungary, and LMP has been pushing for this for years. We reject the fact that Fidesz employs Hungarians as wage slaves in their own country, while you destroy the countryside, which is exactly where the development of the local economy could create a strong Hungary. Thank you. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-10-20-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2015-10-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, You were caught up in the heat, and your introductory thoughts finally lasted five minutes. However, there is a great deal to be corrected in what you have said. Hungary has never tried to gain an international competitive advantage in the last five years by talking about cheap wages in Hungary. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Only the Prime Minister.]] On the contrary. In Hungary, wages were not the goal for the government in the last five years. We wanted to keep two things low: energy prices and taxes. With low energy prices, we want Hungary to be a production and industrial centre first in Central Europe and then in the whole European Union, because we believe that this is the competitive advantage for Hungary. This is hindered by the LMP when it comes in here with all kinds of megaphones against the Paks enlargement and tries to prevent parliamentary votes. It would be good for the LMP to think that these actions are damaging Hungarian competitiveness, their actions are endangering Hungarian jobs, their actions threaten precisely that more and more people in Hungary are able to work and earn ever higher wages. If we had taken the advice that the LMP said, this would have been a competitive disadvantage for Hungary in the 5-10 year term. Our other goal, while keeping energy prices low, is an international competitive advantage, keeping taxes low. Yesterday, he appeared in Parliament, and your fellow Members did not exactly remember that LMP, when it announced its election programme, maximized the tax rate by 41 or 51 percent. [[9.10]] Whichever is the real number, I think it's 41 percent, but it might be 51, I can't remember exactly [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Whatever the real number is, it's way higher than this year's 16 percent personal income tax. Therefore, the LMP would start with - and I quote - boosting the economy and improving the situation of people, that those who now pay 16 per cent tax, who pay even less than 15 per cent of personal income tax next year, if the LMP programme were to be implemented, might tax with a tax rate of 41 per cent or even higher, pay three times as much personal income tax as they do now in the Fidesz-KDNP period. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, while inflation stopped substantially in Hungary after 2010, there is no loss of money, no deterioration in the purchasing value of wages, while the average annual gross earnings increase is a very high level, since it rose from HUF 202 525 to HUF 243 217, with a quarter increase in wages in Hungary. However, it is clear that there is a much larger amount for someone who has used the family-type tax allowance, which could mean ten thousand forints a month, and if someone has three or more children, then from 1 January 2014, when we extended the family-type taxation to contributions, it could mean an even greater increase in salary or income. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about multinationals?]] However, the minimum wage, as you know, is much higher than in the previous 8 years. While between 2002 and 2010, the minimum wage increased by HUF 2937 per year on average, with less than HUF 3 000, it has now increased by HUF 6300 in the last 5 years. So more than double the minimum wage increase in recent years than before. That Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises or multinational companies will receive subsidies? Congresswoman, the LMP is trying very hard to do this, I see, but it will be difficult for you to tell the governing parties that it would be multi-party when we have transferred 60% of the EU's 2014-20 development resources to the GINOP resources, i.e. to the resources typically helping small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can receive it, I think, when you watch almost every major international multi-company in Brussels launch procedures against Hungary, you can hardly pin this on us. You mentioned the Audi investment. There was an investment of EUR 3 billion. The Hungarian government provided 40 billion HUF of support and Audi paid 600 billion HUF of tax to Hungary. $40 billion in state aid, $600 billion in tax revenue. Would you throw this 560 billion HUF profit out the window to the Hungarian state? Would you say that the budget doesn't need 560 billion forints and the jobs of the people that were created there? We believe in small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary in the long term, but without such large companies, these tax revenues would have been lost. And let me draw your attention to the fact that retail sales have increased by 7%. This is the feedback that people have more money, more money, much more work, as unemployment is record low, it goes from 11 percent to 7 percent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , employment has increased by 440 thousand people, so people have more money to buy. I trust that this will continue in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zoltán Gőgös, Member of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, has also applied for a pre-meeting speech: after the robbery? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The soil, forest, field and wild animals contain biological and Hungarian values that can only be managed responsibly. This can only be assured by the state's task. For those living in the countryside, it would have irreversible, fatal consequences if the state land were sold by the government. [[Dr. Bitay to Márton Örs:]] The first few lines come from you, Mr Secretary of State, from the NFA website, and the second on 27 July 2007, István Jakab said to the Civil Review. Well, I don't know, things have changed since then. And the problem is that you now want to privatise one of the most active instruments of rural development, letting go of all the opportunities for the state to remain active in this area, and even excluding local authorities from having an active role, because despite the fact that countless municipalities have asked you for land for social land programmes, some have been given PR features, this will not be possible from now on. So what I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, is that the government support our legislative amendment, which was tabled yesterday, so that, in the second place after the state, the municipalities can take up their pre-emption rights. This could be a little fine-tuning in the fact that at least the municipalities can retain a level of community land to increase employment and provide social assistance to those in need. Instead of encouraging farmers not only to live off grain but also to take a little more responsibility for catching up in the countryside, they will even eliminate existing jobs for their friends. An eloquent proof of this is Mezőhegyes, where an entire city is placed in an absolutely impossible position by destroying a 220-year-old enterprise that employs 500 active and about 1000 temporary workers, while giving the land to people who live and work at the Ministry, and not at the Ministry, the Prime Minister's Office, there; but I can say the same about the relatives of the local representative who entered the church and benefited quite well from this privatisation. And we've just heard that besides it, 380 jobs will be paid 6 billion for a company in Transdanubia. That's an interesting contradiction, Mr. Secretary. And this is very intensely indicated by the fact that a decorated Joseph Ernst gave back his medal, precisely in this regard. In Hajdú-Bihar, the head of the local government office said that there would be an 258-acre billboard under a hammer. The price of this is up to HUF 1 billion in Hajdú-Bihar. I want you to count with me. Even if 300 million loans are added, at least 700 million extra resources are needed to buy this. I wonder who was able to save 48 hectares of his land - because that's what he could have had if he wanted to do that - 700 million forints. It is also interesting to know which young farmer would buy the 96-hectare sign in Vas county, with a price of 256 million forints, so that the 30-year-old can first plant autumn grain at 66 years of age, since it is still 36 years of rental. [[9.20]] I think, Mr Secretary of State, the Prime Minister spoke out yesterday when he said that there would be little land for sale. Either the Prime Minister doesn't know - and it's your fault - that the remaining 1.2 million hectares of forest or nature reserve, because the entire ploughing area is under a hammer, or he said something about the forest coming from here, because it can't be anything else. If there's less ground, then there's only woods left. I'm sure it'll be dirty 22 after the dirty 12, because the forest farms will be privatized. I think it's gonna be a really, really bad thing, but everything points to that. Finally, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, is it normal for the Minister to be protected by the same Kovács P. Zoltán Attorney General's Office in a civil suit, which has received a total of HUF 57 million for his activities in connection with applications for land. You know, Mr. Secretary, in a normal country, when it turns out that the next day, there would be no minister. I would like an answer to these questions, but not a misconception, but an answer, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-20-6	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bitay Márton will answer.
u2015-10-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He said a lot of things in his speech before the agenda. I'm gonna try to line these up. One of them is obvious, and I'm sorry, I don't want to hurt you personally, but hold on. You should know precisely that the 220-year-old State Economy and State Farm of Mezőhegyes were taken into two pieces in 2003, and its most valuable lands were privatized for 20 forints, the company was privatized with the lands for 20 forints, of which there were a lot of lawsuits. Then you stand up in Parliament and dare to say that the 220-year-old state economy is threatened by the current programme? ! I apologize, the 220-year-old state economy is state-owned, and no one wants to privatize the state-owned herd. It's about the state-owned herd becoming a model farm, and it's gonna get land. Let's not confuse things, Mr. Congressman. You have privatized ten state economies, added a lot of land leases to these companies for many decades, and now you stand up and try to wash it together as if it had happened the other way around, which, to put it mildly, is dissonant. The other thing I'd like to tell you is that of all the land we're publishing in a sales program, there are a few dozen that are over a hundred hectares. You should also be aware that there are problems with sharing. On the one hand, a six-month procedure by which one would share it and, on the other hand, a contiguous ploughing area, where there are no physical conditions for sharing, should find a sort of airline along which it can be divided, such as the 90-acre county of Iron, which he mentioned. In my opinion, this may not be economical or appropriate to share. But I agree with what you said - that I should not just reprimand what you were pleased to share with us - that in Hajdú-Bihar County 256 hectares is indeed a very large area. One by one, I will look again at the areas that are so large, and whether there is a possibility that we will share this in some way within the framework of the programme. Because I agree with what you said, that with a loan of 300 million forints, I'm not sure this area can be obtained. Moreover, it is important to state that all land destined for sale must be sold at the best price in the context of responsible public asset management. That's why there's a bid. Therefore, the government does not say that in some tender procedure, but under legal conditions, who complies with the law and who gives the most money at the bid will obtain that area. By the way, there is a state-supported or at least a very good credit facility of less than 2 percent that farmers can live with. Concerning the privatisation of forests: I understand that I would like to wash things together, but it doesn't make any sense. There is no intention of privatizing forests. It is very important that it is guaranteed by law, so it could not be done without a law amendment. But that's not the intention either. Let us say openly that the government intends to give the fields to the farmers. Our intention is not for foreigners, not for speculators, not for investors, but for local family farms. That's what this program is for. It's interesting what you're saying because it keeps coming out of the bag. You are trying to keep large plants in a position, as you have mentioned now, Mezőhegyes. [[Zoltán Proud: Jobs!]] I would like to tell you to be kind and accept that we are not thinking in a large-scale structure, but in a family economy. That's why an area of 450 acres, which a company does, is now used by eight people. That is why out of the published 50,000 local map numbers more than 41,000 under 10 hectares. I don't know what's wrong with telling farmers that land under 10 hectares is being bought at a public auction. There can be no other reason than that you want the land not to belong to the farmers. But whose will it be, dear congressman? [[Zoltán Grimlock: Farmers only use it!]] What makes you think the land is better off than the state that doesn't farm than the family farms? Why do you think that the agricultural land in Hungary will be better in the hands of foreigners or large farms than with farmers? By the way, Congressman, I would also like to ask you to be kind and to support farmers' land grabbing. This debate has been going on for many decades, and the whole point of the debate is whether or not we give land to family farms. The government's telling us to sell land. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr József Attila Móring, Member of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has also submitted a pre-meeting address with the title of challenges and tasks in the field of sport. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2015-10-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of 2017, the world will focus on Hungary, Budapest, and thousands of sports fans will visit us personally to cheer on the spot. We don't have to travel far now, we can cheer for Katinka Long, Éva Risztov, Anna Italian, Dániel Gyurta Cseh, Péter Bernek and the other swimming excellences, our water polo team, to achieve their success in a domestic field and in a domestic environment. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I would also like to thank you for your performance and success in increasing the reputation of our country by them and the former greats of water sports. Without them, without the results of Hungarian swimming and water polo sports for the past decade, we could not talk about the Hungarian world championship. I trust that the government will continue to have a good sense of the means to ensure the effectiveness of domestic competition by at the same time increasing the number of participants in recreational sports. Dear House, As a Christian Democratic Member, I believe and confess that the most important values of our society, the pledges of our future, are our children. Therefore, by all means, we must strive to provide them with conditions for a healthy lifestyle, so that healthy generations grow up with healthy physique and spirituality. Following the change of government in 2010, we had to face the fact that in the European Union, we are an attacker in terms of sports habits, taking into account the data on the public health situation. In Hungary, only 5 percent of the population regularly played sports. About 75 percent of young people who were required to study only did any kind of physical exercise during physical education, which alone was not suitable for ensuring healthy mobility in the age group. The institutional system of sport has been constantly eroded, the proportion of regular athletes has decreased dramatically, the area of sport has become increasingly devalued in pedagogical work and has become more and more untapped. Meanwhile, chronic physical and mental health problems have appeared alarmingly in younger age groups every year. The situation was severe, requiring immediate intervention and long-term forward-looking action. It was necessary to establish a new system of Hungarian sport, which clearly carries out the tasks of reconstruction along national, community interests, with strong public involvement. To this end, a threefold target system was set up by the state's sports leadership, which was supported by KDNP. One is for all children to play sports, the other is for sports facilities to be built, for our children, our young people and the adult age groups to play sports under cultural conditions, and the third is for us to host as many popular sports events as possible, bring together fans, bring famous athletes here, and show our best people their knowledge in front of the home audience. [[9.30]] I think we have made significant progress in all three areas in the last four years. We have introduced everyday physical education in an emerging system, we have created a unique system of support for visual team sports in Europe, and we have developed a system of support for priority sports. By 2020, Hungary will be able to host even the most prestigious international competitions in each of the 16 flagship sports and 5 visual team sports, as well as to ensure that Hungarian athletes can successfully prepare for them, especially with regard to the Olympic Games. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mrs Sávolt-Szabó Tünde State Secretary will respond. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-10-20-11	Thank you. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is true that we were drivers of sports habits in the European Union, but the government has recognised the values of sport and movement, and in the last five years we have launched a lot of programmes, so we have been able to change that. Now, I would like to report to you a great deal of progress. One of the foundations of the shift was the introduction of everyday physical education, as a result of which more than a million students now move every day from September this year, thus living healthier. Part of this program is the Public Education Development Program, which allows for the background of school sports by building additional gyms, classrooms and school schools. These developments serve the development of young people in the long term, helping to carry out health education tasks in the locality. This includes the. Each child should also learn to swim. I have to tell you about the sport and your program, which we implement within the framework of school physical education by presenting sports and providing sports equipment packages for nearly 1,200 schools free of charge. This gives children the opportunity to choose sports and professionals to choose talent. As a result of the programmes, European Union studies also confirm it, while in 2009 only 5 percent of Hungarians regularly played sports, this ratio has now risen to 15 percent, which is the most intensive growth in Europe. Of course, recreational port programmes also make a significant contribution to this. If we are talking about results, we mean first and foremost, sport. During the 2002-2010 governments, the support of the top sport has reached an unprecedented low, but the current government has been able to reverse the Hungarian sports chariot and will do everything in its power to enable our competitors to prepare under conditions worthy of their results, as we are still lagging behind in relation to the major sports powers. This is the goal of the government's current strategy for the development of sports facilities, but these facilities are not only built on top sports, in fact, for healthy lifestyles, such as families, children, replacements, who can be top athletes and champions. Sport funding has also been based on new foundations, and since 2011 we have introduced a unique visual team support system throughout Europe, with the result that 110,000 more people in Hungary will play sports as certified athletes in Taós sports. In addition, the government also gives special support to the 16 most successful Olympic sports associations, where the number of certified competitors increased by more than one third, the number of coaches by more than 30 percent and the number of members by 5.2 percent over the past year. Today, professionals in high coaching status enjoy both material and moral appreciation, while contestants in the Sports Stars scholarship system and Gerevich scholarship will also be able to provide their futures with support from the present and their studies. I must mention here that today the government is discussing the situation of the University of Physical Education, which is also our priority. The Olympics in London have brought full Hungarian success, and the government is doing everything in its power to ensure that our competitors are excellent in the Rio Olympics as well. I also agree that the outstanding results achieved at a world event organized in Hungary will focus people's attention on sport and increase the number of people who want to play sports. This is why we consider it an outstanding sports diplomacy success to have won the right to host the 2017 World Water Championship, which is one of the most important and viewed sporting events in the world. Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a sport nation, so the government is determined to continue to promote the top sport, but in addition its long-term goal is to make Hungarian society an athletic nation, and more and more masses, young and adults alike, choose a healthy and movement-rich lifestyle. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-12	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Gabriella Selmeczi, Member of the Fidesz, applied for a speech on the agenda with the title Fidesz's policy to help families.
u2015-10-20-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today there is a turnaround in Hungary in the development of poverty. All statistics show that the number of poor people in Hungary is decreasing. The poor are 240,000 fewer, with some indicator showing that they are not at risk of poverty. In 2012-2013, poverty-related processes turned in the right direction. This trend is mainly due to the reduction of the overhead, due to the saving of foreign exchange credentials, and due to the extension of public work. As opposed to the pre-2010 states, the socialists who, for example, doubled the price of electricity, triple the price of gas, and do not forget, as opposed to the socialists who pushed hardworking people into the trap of foreign exchange loans. We have introduced a number of measures, Fidesz-KDNP, which strengthen families, including the situation of children and the elderly. I would like to mention a free meal here, a free summer meal, the Elisabeth programme and the situation of pensioners. For the free kindergarten and nursery meals, and through this for institutional children's meals, we will spend twice the amount of HUF 58 billion instead of HUF 29 billion this year. So, unlike the socialists, who have spent another HUF 29 billion on this area, we are now spending HUF 58 billion. By the way, the support for a social summer meal is 25 percent higher than it was in 2010. From 2016, so next year, the total amount of food for children will be HUF 71 billion. With free summer meals, we help 142,000 children. From 1 September 2015, this year's kindergarten, kindergarten and school start, the number of children entitled to a free meal in daycare and kindergarten increased significantly by about 3.5 times. This will help poor families a lot, otherwise we can help to reduce the costs of raising children. The facilitation will save HUF 3.5 billion from September this year and HUF 12-13 billion in 2016 for the affected families as a whole. So, if you look at this per family, the parents of almost two thirds of children in kindergarten can save 7-10 thousand forints per child per month compared to the current situation. It's a significant amount, I think, and as I said, that's how we can help raise children. If we are talking about mass catering, let me mention that 58 percent of primary schoolchildren receive free or reduced meals. Let me also say here that a child who goes to an institution, so he gets a luncheon, a nursery, a nursery, a school, a breakfast in the morning, a hot lunch at noon, and a snack in the afternoon, so he gets a meal at least three times in the afternoon. [[9.40]] He entered the third year of the Elizabeth program. Two pillars are social recreation and children's camping. Since its departure, 600,000 people have received such a preferential holiday, more than half of which are children. Let me also talk about family support. As opposed to the socialists who raised taxes or high inflation, or against Ferenc Gyurcsány, who would build social housing from the Hungarian people's taxes and give them to migrants sent back under quota, we solved family support through a very strong tax system. Between 2010-16, the overall support of parents working with children increased by HUF 276 billion, i.e. nearly three times. We also extended the family tax allowance to contributions, which helped families in a more modest line. Allow me to remember pensioners with one word: Between 2011-15, the real value of pensions increased by 6.7 percent. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2015-10-20-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, For all governments, it is a question of value-choice, value-choice, whether, when, say, an economic crisis has come, or when there is some social difficulty, these extra burdens are imposed on them: families, the population, pensioners, people living in wages and wages - as was the case between 2006-2010, with tax increases, pension cuts or wage cuts in the public sector - or even the other way around, as Fidesz-KDNP has done after 2010, and people's burdens are eased by a government, reduced taxes, introducing a family-type tax system, and transferring to large international multinational companies the tax burden that it has taken off people's shoulders, or what it has done in the pension increase in the past period, was an increase of nearly 7 percent real pension, which is equivalent to almost a month's pension. Well, what you're giving the pensioners, what you're giving the families, you're covering the burden, the extra tax on multinational companies. This is the huge difference between the period before 2010 and the period after 2010. If we look at the fact that in Western European countries who have chosen tax increases according to the IMF recipe in response to the crisis, the taxes on working people have been increased, poverty indicators have also deteriorated, while in Hungary, where we have reduced the burden on people, where we have encouraged small and medium-sized enterprises, but here the total national product has increased, and wages have doubled in Hungary. So this recipe worked. Hungary was better able to help families than other countries. One of the consequences of this is that demographic indicators have also improved and the number of children per woman of childbearing age has increased from 1.26 to 1.41. This is obviously due to symbolic measures and also to serious financial decisions. If we had calculated what would have happened if the governments prior to the budget had continued to adopt the budget after 2010 and the families were ahead of that, with the Fidesz-KDNP majority adopting the budget, then we can see that the Hungarian families will receive more than HUF 1100 billion in total in the previous budget laws, as if the previous trend had continued. The government was able to help 1.2 million families with children, since family-type taxation reached 95 percent of families. This is one of the most effective family policy measures, since all Hungarian families were able to use it except 5 percent. If we look at the additional benefits that this meant for each family last year, we can say that HUF 550 000, and if we look at the budget that was adopted next year together with this year, then we see that a family in Hungary has an average of HUF 950,000 ahead by changing government in 2010, not by continuing the previous trend, but by Fidesz-KDNP gave the government, we adopted the fiscal laws, tax laws, this means almost one million forints for each family according to the laws adopted so far. One of the most recent measures, to which she has repeatedly referred here in Parliament, is the family's home-building discount, which has now been opened up to families with one child after the Socpol, including the purchase of used apartments, and the expansion of existing housing. There is a huge interest in the family's home-building discount, five thousand people have claimed this discount, and if you compare how many people in three and a half years have asked for the Socpol and how many have asked for the CSOK in the last two months, you can see that two and a half times as many people have applied for the family's home-building discount since summer as the Socket has done in three and a half years. This shows how much interest has increased. It is also an important support for families that for three years there is a risk that the Socialists have taken away, we have increased the maximum amount of weed by almost one and a half times. It is also important to introduce a diplomat so that those who study at university do not miss the time to have children so that they do not have to work another year after the university, so that they can claim lawn, but immediately during the university or after the university, if they are to have children. They are in no more disadvantaged situation than if they had only had children two or three years later. How can this support and all other support reach the families that use it? From 1 April this year, family allowances, children's, children's and maternity allowances can be claimed at government offices, all walking chairs, government windows and metropolitan districts, which will help families to make use of these benefits, thus bringing the administration much closer to those who use it. We hope that more support will be available to more people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how you steal: how does Fidesz build its own mafia state? Mr János Volner, Jobbikos, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2015-10-20-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, Jobbik held a thematic parliamentary day here in this House. We talked about how the corruption machine, built by Fidesz, works, with concrete examples. The problem with corruption is not only that according to the most careful estimates it causes direct damage to the Hungarian economy of HUF 400 billion, but the problem is also to contrast the Hungarian entrepreneurial society, because, for example, the state, as the largest customer of the Hungarian economy, gives the public procurement amount of around HUF 1600 billion annually not to companies who would otherwise be competitive under market economy conditions, but to companies who are owned by politicians or have an extremely good, fruitful economic relationship with politicians. It is also typical that corruption in Hungary has worked in a bipolar political arrangement for a very long time and even now, in part, that the various left-wing companies are working together with Fidesz companies when carrying out the biggest infrastructure investments in the country. According to the statement of the businessmen familiar with corruption, this is how the 70:30 distribution works between Fidesz and the left, by dividing the public procurements and putting the money away. It is common to say that the fish reeks of its head, and that the most influential entrepreneurs in Hungary are constantly coming out of Viktor Orbán's immediate environment, the Prime Minister stands up cynically and tells us to press charges in these matters. The complaint has been made in countless cases and in many cases we have received back decisions that have terminated the investigation or decisions that have not even established a criminal offence. It is also important to see why there is no accountability. It's simply because Fidesz doesn't want to account for himself because he's against it. It is also worth seeing how the Fidesz has made sure that its own people are cemented into the machine for accounting. His name is Péter Polt, and he is a founding member of Fidesz. Obviously, he's not an impartial man. It is called Hando Fae, the wife of a fidesz MEP, who is the president of the National Court Office, and we will obviously expect him to account for Fidesz. The Constitutional Court was regularly filled with Fidesz members and thus ensured that Fidesz's opinion would prevail there as well. Police leaders appointed by the leaders of Fidesz have also been put at the head of the police, everyone is loyal to the system, and virtually no one is interested in accounting through their personal and related contacts. [[9.50]] Quaestor's, the veterinary horse of Hungarian corruption, was a typical case, that in a series of thefts that took place for 15 years, a company and a businessman who also had a very good relationship with the socialist governments, since it is important to remember that 16.9 billion forints of credit from the Socialist Government are not a piece of cake, and as we know, photos were also taken together, Csaba Tarsoly has an extremely good relationship with the leading politicians of Fidesz and Viktor Orbán himself. It can also be seen that, on a continuous basis, when we called on the Fidesz to declare whether, on the basis of inside information, money had not been recovered from the Quaestor, all parliamentary parties followed Jobbik's example, the Fidesz Members refused to make a statement. It is also worth seeing that Hungary's most influential entrepreneurs continue to emerge from the immediate environment of Viktor Orbán. As owner of Viktor Orbán's favourite football club, István Garancsi acquired one of the most profitable companies in the field of gas business, and the top 10 dividend-paying companies fought. Lőrinc Mészáros, the gasman of the nation, wins the public procurements in a row; interestingly, we cannot know about other similar gas mechanics who would have been so successful. Árpád Habony is already building the media empire from government money that helps the Fidesz stay in power. Andy Vajna had the casino concession and the resulting billions of dollars. Fidesz created the background of corruption, partly legitimized it, so that it could not be accounted for, could not take this step. It is important to see that Fidesz is the political power [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He has used his acquisition to gain economic power, and the Jobbik government will act against this in 2018 with the strictest means and will be accountable. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has declared zero tolerance to corruption, and it will do so in practice. Allow me to recall what happened yesterday, which was about the arrest of 36 members of the Central Detective Attorney General's Office in the framework of the National Defence Service's anti-corruption operation. This case also proves that the government is committed to achieving zero tolerance and to combating corruption. Honourable Congressman, The government has taken very important measures to combat corruption. It implemented a police reform, which was an important element of the 2012 CXLVII. a law under which we have established the National Defence Service, whose task has become an internal crime prevention and law enforcement task. This organisation started its activities on 1 January 2011 and has since done a great deal in the fight against corruption. I would like to draw attention to the fact that you preach water and drink hard wine. [[Complaining from the lines of the MSZP: Rock hard...]] because this is the year 2010 CXLVII. Law [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] which provided for the establishment of the National Defence Service, you did not support it. So you are going against corruption in words, but when, as legislators, you can do something in the fight against corruption, you do not take that step. This is demonstrated by the rejection of this law. So you reject the fight against corruption in reality, and here in Parliament, you seem to stand up to horse-zung in the fight against corruption. Honourable Congressman, What you have said in your recent statement about the leaders of various state organisations, I would like to reject that. Tell me one of the police chiefs who's connected to the Fidesz. Police leaders are law enforcement professionals who have done a great deal to ensure that today we can say that in Hungary people live more safely than before 2010 [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] As it was five years ago, and the work of their work and police personnel contributed a great deal to this. As regards the remark concerning the person of the head of the National Court Office, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as I know, the head of the National Court Office is not acting on any specific matter, nor is he judging any particular case, and your accusation in this regard is entirely unfounded, honourable Member. But I would like to draw your attention to the current criminal code 300. The official who, in his capacity, becomes aware of the fact that he has not yet discovered bribery, the acceptance of bribery, the acceptance of bribery, the acceptance of bribery, bribery in court or in public proceedings, the acceptance of bribery in judicial or administrative proceedings, the acquisition of influence or influence, has been committed and, as soon as he can do, does not press charges, shall be punishable by a three-year imprisonment for a criminal offence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thus, I ask the honourable Member, if he is aware of a corruption incident, to express it not only in Parliament's walls but also in the public authorities, to comply with this obligation as a legislator and law-abiding legislator, not to destroy the good news of the country and to stamp on the country's forehead as an apparent corruption mark, but also to do whatever it takes to fulfil its obligation under the Criminal Code, if you are aware of it. If you don't know, then shut up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The text of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, T/6258. Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6258 will accept it. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the adoption of the report on the financial year 2011-31 May 2011 to 31 December 2011 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund H/6382. Final vote on the proposal for a decision with a serial number. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 1 tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 128 against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6382 will accept it. a proposal for a decision with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 108 votes to 59, with no abstentions. [[10.00]] It follows from the adoption of the report on the financial year 2012 to 31 December 2012 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, H/6371. Final vote on the proposal for a decision with a serial number. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 1 tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 130 against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6371 accepts it. a proposal for a decision with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 108 votes to 59, with no abstentions. It follows from the adoption of the report on the financial year of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 H/6374. Final vote on the proposal for a decision with a serial number. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 1 tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 131 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6374 accepts it. a proposal for a decision with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 109 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It follows from the adoption of the report on the financial year 2014 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 H/6377. Final vote on the proposal for a decision with a serial number. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 1 tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 129 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6377 accepts it. a proposal for a decision with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 109 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It follows from the adoption of the report on the financial year of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund from 1 January 2015 to 31 January 2015 H/6380. Final vote on the proposal for a decision with a serial number. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 1 was tabled by Bertalan Tóth and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 132 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6380 accepts it. a proposal for a decision with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 110 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. The 1997 CLIV on health will follow. T/6398 amending Act T/6398 Final vote of bill No. 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 2 was proposed by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 24 votes to 142, with two abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 140 against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6398 accepts it. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes to five, with three abstentions. [[10.10]] Next up is T/6132 on the amendment of certain capital market and insurance laws. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote on the legislative proposal No. T/6132/5. by serial number and summary report by T/6132/6. by serial number. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6132/5. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 158 votes to seven, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6132/7. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 161 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I remind you that yesterday the debates were already held by the Parliament. I ask you whether the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary by Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné Jobbikos will be included in a series of subjects. Amendment of Act T/4975/3 concerning the establishment of mayor's salary a proposal for a regulation with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the bill by 52 votes in favour, 111 against, with two abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by the Sallai R. Benedict LMP representative on the National Earth Fund 2010 LXXXVII. T/6080/3. a proposal for a regulation with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 56 votes in favour, 108 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, who do not participate in the work, leave the Chamber as soon as possible. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The Government's submission is T/6632. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-10-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2011, the environmental product fee was fully adapted to meet domestic and international waste management objectives and obligations. The bill-modifying proposal submitted to the Honourable Parliament is the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. The aim of the Act is to incorporate the experience gained by law enforcement after the entry into force of Law No 1 of 1 January 2012. The fundamental aim of the concept is to establish a clear, simplified and transparent set of rules, which are understood and applied in the same way by both obliged farmers and the enforcement authorities. This proposal has therefore been developed together with the relevant wallets and authorities on the basis of the questions raised by the law enforcement authorities. In the context of the legislation, feedback from law enforcement has shown the need to simplify and reduce the administrative burden, especially for those who choose individual waste management. The purpose of this bill is therefore to facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of those concerned. The amendment tabled to the Honourable Parliament contains the following main elements: the introduction of a vehicle product fee limit to reduce administration, the simplification of the performance of individual waste management, the clarification of the sanctioning system of the Product Charges Act, the addition of a late payment supplement, other amendments, including the extension of interpretation provisions, concepts and clarification to facilitate interpretation of the law. [[10.20]] With the adoption of the bill, the administrative burden of the defendants concerned can be greatly reduced by ensuring the payment of a simplified flat-rate fee for motor vehicles - motorcycles and passenger cars - without reducing budgetary revenue. In the case of an average compact passenger car, the price to be paid for products subject to the product fee included in the vehicle - tyre, battery, lubrication oil and electric electronic equipment - is around HUF 5,000 on average. In view of the many tolled parts, however, the defendants are charged with extensive administration, which must be prepared and declared to the tax authority separately per material stream. On the basis of the initiative of the farmers concerned, the product fee payable for the parts and components of motor vehicles subject to a product charge is affordable as a unit fee. According to industrial estimates, around 1,200 farmers - car manufacturers and distributors - will be affected by simplification. The product fee shall be liable to fulfil its obligation in a collective manner at its own discretion, charged to the State by payment of the fee, either as an individual waste treatment provider or as a flat-rate fee. The price of the product to be paid to the individual waste management voters depends on their waste recovery performance for the year in question. The system encourages the use of waste generated by products subject to product charges to the highest possible extent, but at the same time the administrative burden on individual waste managers is significantly greater than those required to choose collective delivery. This bill significantly facilitates compliance with the product fee obligation for those who choose individual waste management. The quarterly reporting and payment obligation so far is replaced by a one-year payment and return obligation and one annual settlement obligation after the reference year. When preparing the annual declaration, all necessary data and evidence of waste recovery are already available for the defendant concerned and therefore the debtor's declaration should no longer be corrected for lack of information in the context of self-control. This point also supports the work of the audit authority. The sanctioning system of the Product Charges Act becomes more transparent. The proposal clearly clarifies that, in cases not regulated by law, the provisions of the Tax Code are applicable, which support the interpretation of law by both the debtors and the audit authority. New concepts that are essential for better practical implementation of the main proposals and new definitions that help to delimit products subject to product charges are added to the legal interpretation of the product fee. The amending proposal clarifies certain earlier definitions and brings them into line with legislation on waste management. By supplementing the definition of placing the product on the market, not only domestic but also foreign farmers will be obliged to pay a product fee in the event of the sale of the product subject to a product charge by long-distance online sale to a customer in Hungary, which resolves the market disadvantage of domestic farmers. The current legislation is not sustainable from an environmental and waste management point of view. The collection and recovery of products imported into Hungary via the online distribution channel should also be provided from domestic sources, but foreign farmers are currently not obliged to contribute to the recovery of their products subject to the charge by paying the fee. According to the proposed point, foreign long-distance sellers with domestic VAT registration are obliged to contribute to the recovery of the future waste of their marketed products by fulfilling their product fee obligation. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I ask you to support the entry into force of the proposal to amend the Environmental Product Fee Act with your contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. - There's more people talking standing up.]]
u2015-10-20-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[It's ringing.]] I would ask my fellow Members to either continue or take their seats outside. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-10-20-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have often meditated among the walls of this beautiful building on the world we want to build for our children and grandchildren. No wonder, since the laws we create shape the lives of the smaller and larger communities of the country, the Hungarian nation, have an impact on people's everyday lives. At the end of our thinking processes and even at the beginning, I think we agree that the world in which we live and in which our children live should be beautiful, livable and safe. However, this world does not fall into our laps, unfortunately we can do a lot about it, and we have to put the beautiful, livable and safe world out of tiny pieces of mosaic step by step. We started this construction not only when we created LV on the environmental product fee in 2011. law, but also a number of other legislations, established frameworks, serve to make our desires come true. To mention just one thing, this is the line of the national sustainable development strategy, in which we said in our debate, if I remember correctly, that everyone pointed out that a paradigm shift was needed, but the most difficult thing to do is to take the first steps. Thinking controls action, defines actions, and in order to achieve results, we need coordinated actions, which, I note, is also formulated in the framework strategy. We wanted to achieve such alignment with the Environmental Product Fee Act. We wanted the legislation created to contribute to the prevention, reduction and promotion of activities aimed at saving natural resources; contribute to the prevention and reduction of environmental risks and damage; ensure financial resources so that we can achieve all of this and help to meet the environmental standards laid down by EU and domestic waste legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, What have we accomplished? We can say that we have achieved results. Thanks to the Environmental Product Fee Act introduced, both production, trade and consumption have moved in a more environmentally friendly direction in many areas. One excellent example is the change in our habits regarding the use of plastic bags. Thanks to the legislation introduced, the average Hungarian person uses only 30 plastic bags a year, thus taking up an exemplary position in the European Union, as the EU target is 90 by 2019 and 40 by 2025. It's just an example, and we can continue the line for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, we have results, but it has been five years since we decided to introduce the environmental product fee. The proposal before Parliament aims to make regulation simpler, more user-friendly and more transparent by building on the experience gained during the application. [[10.30]] The preparation of the bill was preceded by a broad, thorough professional consultation. The Product Fee Working Group, set up by the Ministry of National Economy, the National Tax and Customs Office, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Inspectorate for Environment and Nature, with the involvement of the delegates of the National Directorate for Waste Management of the National Directorate for Environment and Nature Protection, carried out a review of the product fee regulation. The review was carried out on the basis of the professional experience of the legislator and the requests for a resolution received by the legislator. As I pointed out, within the framework of the working group, the delegations of the wallets have designed the amendment of the Environmental Product Fee Act on the basis of environmental and waste management considerations in such a way that there is a clear, precise regulation that can be better understood from the point of view of farmers, which also takes into account social interests. Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned the main areas of the proposal. One is the introduction of a simplified flat-rate fee for motor vehicles, which affects almost 1,200 farmers. We can see that in recent years the production of motor vehicles in Hungary has become a major industry. There are four large vehicle manufacturers in Hungary. These are Audi, Mercedes, Suzuki and Opel, which are served by 712 domestic companies, specifically automotive companies. A number of manufacturers are subject to product fee regulation, which places a significant administrative burden on businesses. A reduction in this is certainly a welcome goal. Ladies and gentlemen, Another objective of the proposal is to simplify the implementation of individual waste management. Mr Secretary of State said that our task is to encourage the level of waste recovery and to help those who choose individual waste management fulfil their obligations, to a large extent, as has been said, by reducing the administrative burden. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State also mentioned the area of the amendment which concerns the clarification of the sanctioning system of the law, the addition of a late payment bonus, and also the area which eliminates discrimination, I would point out that I think it is also very right. This is the practice of online trade, i.e. long-distance sales, that if an economic operator sells a product subject to a product charge via domestic long-distance sales, the fact that it is placed on the market creates a product charge obligation for the farmer. However, if a foreign farmer sells the same product subject to a charge by means of long-distance sales to a customer in Hungary, the farmer does not become a liability. This is discriminatory against farmers who trade online in Hungary and has a market disadvantage for them. This proposal for an amendment seeks to eliminate this. Furthermore, the free or returnable sale of a product subject to a product charge from abroad in the context of a long-distance sale also creates a product fee obligation for the farmer if it is subject to VAT registration under the rules on general sales tax. I would like to introduce to my fellow Members that, on the basis of the data of the NAV, 26 foreign companies with VAT registration made long-distance sales in 2014, which only amounted to HUF 0.8 billion in long-distance VAT payments. The product types most affected by long-distance sales are packaging and electrical and electronic equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, You have the proposal before you, and you know the details of it. The experience of four to five years made it necessary to create it. A small part of the many mosaics that can build a beautiful, safe world that our children and grandchildren can live with. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-20-24	Thank you. Mónika Bartos to Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-10-20-25	Thank you very much. The environmental product award, as everyone knows it, is a soap tax, so at least it's famous and everyone knew what the law amendment was that you brought in back in 2015. They claim that this will make the sanctioning system more transparent, new concepts and new definitions to help delimit products subject to product charges are added to the interpretation provisions of the original law. All these would be eligible targets, but in reality, the law on simplification has become as complicated as an implementing regulation. Now it is not enough to have an OKJ training for this law change, when it will already fit into the law; it is almost necessary to have more university degrees to know what the exact regulation is then. The government and the Ministry of Agriculture indicate their extremely high level of professional skills that we will amend the Product Fee Act for the second time this year. The 2011 Environmental Product Award Act was amended in spring 2015 and entered into force on 1 January 2015. That amendment probably didn't go very well, as we have this law before us again. Moreover, it is incomprehensible why motor vehicles are included in the regulation when there is a separate legislation on the breakdown of motor vehicles, and batteries and motor oils have been product-charged products. The main objective of the environmental product fee introduced in Hungary in 1995 was to create financial resources to prevent, reduce environmental hazards and pollution or damage caused by the production, marketing and use of different products, and to stimulate activities aimed at saving the management of natural resources. All over Europe, these revenues mainly finance modern waste management, prevention and recycling programmes. We know that this is not the case in Hungary. In fact, what we see today is that the government has made a completely unprofessional decision against international waste management trends when it based on the construction of new waste incinerators to solve the problem of communal waste storage. Zoltán Illés, which established the 2011 Product Fee Act, is worth paying attention to the words of the 2011 Product Fee Act in the present case:, The mixed incineration of garbage is an antiquated solution 50 years ago, because the incineration plant burns plastics, mattress pads, food residues, while producing carcinogenic dioxins. Such an investment consumes between 40 and 50 percent of the waste gases, but despite the harsh costs, the technology is not perfect. Air pollution remains to be considered. The resulting slag and ash are also carcinogenic, which must be treated as hazardous waste and transported to special landfills. Zoltán Eztés said, your former Secretary of State. In addition, it has been shown in recent years that the government is only seeking to lay the foundations for a system of unreasonable collection of funds by means of product tariff regulation. Thus, in recent times, unreasonable measures have been introduced, as I said, soap tax, shampoo tax, and what is a joke category is that even before shaving, shaving products and after shaving, a simple person has to pay a product fee. They're starting to tax everything that exists. But the cutest one was really the solar scanner you introduced. Cash collection illustrates and demonstrates that not even a quarter of the HUF 63 billion environmental product fee revenue planned for 2015 will be used to support domestic waste management and environmental protection systems. There are no prevention and recycling programmes. Proposals for support for environmental civil society organisations are constantly being reduced. In addition, the waste management system, which has been affected by the reduction of costs and the deposit contribution, and is facing growing economic problems across the country, we know that it has huge problems. Currently, it is several settlements, almost hundreds of settlements where disaster management is required to designate the service provider. Yet at our last meeting of the committee, I could listen to Dr. András Rácz, Deputy State Secretary, say that there is nothing to improve the system of waste management, because it is a well-functioning system. We have put forward a proposal for a decision in which we have tried to put it to you; we have listened to the opinion of the profession and of the local authorities, and of everyone who has a little understanding of the waste management system, and we have formulated to you what needs to be improved in the waste management system. This has been swept away and not even discussed in a series of articles that there is nothing to improve the waste management system. [[10.40]] I will be very, very curious to know when the amendment to the waste management system will be submitted, since you know that this system is therefore unsustainable and inoperable. I will be very curious to know when you will prove to this preposterousness that all opposition proposals will be swept off the table, the inadequacy of taking ideas and opinions from our proposal, hopefully, into the amendment. Because at least then it will be the profession and now the maintenance authorities whose opinions will be included, and perhaps a system may finally be set up where disaster management will not have to designate the public service provider. The MSZP parliamentary group cannot support the proposal submitted during the vote. The environmental product fee system of the Orbán government and the Ministry of Agriculture does not in reality serve the original purpose of the law. In fact, the Orbán government's product charging system is nothing more than an unreasonable collection of money that is absorbed by the central budget rather than being financed by waste management, prevention and recycling programmes. We think that once again we should run the amendment to the Environmental Product Charges Act, so that it is a useful, transparent and really simplifying bill, not what you have just submitted. It's a simple collection of money, a simple withdrawal from everyone. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-20-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2015-10-20-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The basic principle of the functioning of the government in office since 2010 is the consistent representation of Hungarian interests, which are enforced by legislation taking into account realities and experience gained in application, which is accompanied by a broad political, social and professional consensus. The legislative amendment to be discussed is also proposed in this spirit, in particular following the principle of the polluter pays. As we have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, since 2010, environmental product fee regulation has undergone a very serious transformation in order to ensure that international and domestic waste management objectives and obligations can be fully met. The bill presented to this House has gathered the experience of law enforcement over the past four years and is trying to incorporate it into the legislation. To this end, in February 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture initiated an inter-ministerial consultation, in which it was decided that the organisations concerned would form a working group to discuss issues related to the amendment of the environmental product tariff regulation and to develop a new legislative framework. The Product Fee Working Group started operations in May 2015 and met on several occasions. The delegations of the wallets have designed the amendment to the law in such a way that precise regulation is put in place that can be better understood by farmers in the light of social interests. The new concept is clear, simplified and transparent. The aim was to set up a regulatory system which is understood and applied in the same way by both the obliged economic operator and the applicable authorities. Therefore, this proposal has been developed on the basis of the questions raised by the law enforcement authorities, with the involvement of the relevant wallets and authorities. The experts of the Product Fee Working Group made the following proposals. In order to reduce administration, let us introduce the automotive product fee transfer, simplify individual waste management, clarify the sanctioning system of the law, introduce the institution of the late payment, expand and clarify the scope of interpretation provisions and concepts. The simplified flat-rate fee can significantly reduce the administrative burden on those concerned, while not reducing the revenue from the budget. The amendment is necessary because a number of manufacturers are subject to product fee regulation several times and this places a significant administrative burden on businesses. Therefore, the introduction of a flat-rate fee can and will provide a good solution to address this situation. The standard fee is to establish the single categories of charges corresponding to the actual product fee of the components subject to the product charge specified above, which are paid by those concerned without separate accounting and documentation, as a flat rate when the vehicle is first placed on the market, used for its own purposes or when it is taken into stock. In order to simplify the performance of individual waste management, the product fee shall be subject to the obligation to pay the product fee in a collective manner, to perform individual waste management or to pay a flat rate at its own discretion. The essence of individual waste management is that the recovery of waste generated by a product subject to a product charge is organised, managed by a product subject to a charge and, on the basis of the performance achieved in this way, calculates the product charge to be paid as set out in Annex 3 to the bill. The voters of collective performance and flat-rate fee payments entrust this task to public waste management organisations by paying the fees set out in Annex 2 to the bill. This amendment proposal sets an annual reporting frequency for individual waste managers with advance payments and significantly facilitates compliance with the product fee obligation for those who choose individual waste management. Overall, this amendment proposal reduces the administrative burden on the farmers concerned, although it does not or only has a minor impact on the development of planned central budget revenues. In the light of previous years' audit experience, the proposals put forward clarify the sanctioning system of the law and clarify that, in the case of issues not covered by the bill, the 2003 XCII on the system of taxation. The provisions of law shall prevail. The proposal also includes text-pointing in line with the legislative intention to facilitate the interpretation of legislation. The law in force states that in the case of late payment of a product fee or aid unduly used, it is not appropriate to set a delay premium. The bill changes this and introduces the institution of the late payment. The bill complements the interpretation of the legislation with new concepts for clarity, simplification and transparency. For example, construction products, handicraft products, lack of product fee, product fee differential and product fee debt. The new definitions facilitate, on the one hand, the identification of products subject to a fee and, on the other hand, the need for amendments made. An amendment to the definition of placing on the market should be highlighted among the interpretation provisions. The change also includes long-distance sales in the field of marketing, which was also discussed by the Secretary of State and my fellow Fidesz lead speaker. By supplementing the definition of placing on the market, not only domestic but also foreign farmers will be required to pay a product fee. The current legislation is not sustainable from an environmental and waste management point of view, and it needs to be changed. In the case of products imported into Hungary via the online distribution channel from abroad, they should also be collected and used from domestic sources, as foreign farmers are currently not obliged to contribute to the recovery of the products subject to the charge by them by paying the product fee. This is changed by the proposed legislation, the adoption of which will require foreign long-distance sellers with VAT registration to contribute to the recovery of the future waste of their marketed products by fulfilling their product fee obligation. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Protecting our environment is an important fight. This is a fight in which it is our duty not only to protect the natural environment entrusted to us, but also to protect the natural environment. I trust that this common national minimum, which goes beyond party policy, will bring maximum cooperation from all parliamentary decision-makers. The KDNP fraction supports the amendment tabled, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-28	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-20-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight, among what has been said so far in the speeches by the lead speaker, the points with which Congresswoman Mónika Bartos began her speech. I can fully agree that it is very important what kind of world we imagine for ourselves for the future and for our offspring, for future generations. However, the conclusions are no longer consistent with us, since I consider the government's past five years in the field of environmental protection to be a little different. Unfortunately, I see only the continuing deterioration of the sector, and I see that not everything has been done by the previous Orbán government, and that it is not doing everything it can to meet the environmental objectives and to make progress in this area. In the debate on all environmental legislation proposals, we say that it started with the abolition of a separate environmental portfolio, which in itself would not necessarily have led to a weakening of the interests of the environment as a sector, but the practice shows that the demotion of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is now called the Ministry of Agriculture, has brought about the weakening of the area's ability to assert interest. I do not claim or even strongly criticise the activity that the socialist governments that had been ruling before have explained in this area, but there has certainly been a weakening from a sectoral point of view over the last five years. In the context of the Environmental Product Fee Act, the same can be said, namely that it is becoming less and less in line with the original objective. After all, let us look at why it was created, why it was introduced at the time, or at least at the theoretical level, what was the justification for introducing the environmental product fee! A financial instrument is available in Hungary to achieve waste recycling and waste management objectives. However, this is now becoming less and less fulfilled, and after each amendment, we see more and more that the environmental product fee law, which is intended to ensure the continuity of tax revenues, rather than the achievement of environmental protection and waste management objectives, is failing. The provisions are increasingly aligned or adapted to the provisions of the Law on the Rules of Taxation. As we can see, it has already been stated in this law that the directives of the Law on the Rules of Taxation in the field of non-regulated persons in this law are in force and are applicable. This also shows that the word "environmental" could slowly be left out of the environmental product fee term, more and more a fee, a tax, a claim to be collected, which is also shown by the fact that revenues increase the central budget, and we do not really see that waste management, especially prevention, is being achieved. As far as technical details are concerned, it may, as Mr Földi said, indeed include bureaucracy reduction measures by setting a flat-rate fee for motor vehicles, or, for example, converting to the system of annual tax advance or advance on product fees instead of quarterly returns. This may go in a positive direction both tax-technically and in terms of cutting red tape, but it does not make any difference in terms of the original idea of meeting environmental objectives. I think that would require completely different, much more radical measures. This law in its present form is not suitable for this purpose. We imagine for ourselves a world where waste management, waste recovery and the focus on prevention are much smarter and more conscious in the consumer society. Today, there are many examples of waste management in a wasteful way, and I do not see that since the product fee bill has been introduced or since an environmental product fee has to be paid for a certain range of waste, this would have changed substantially, less advertising material, less waste material would cover our mailboxes, or less environmentally dangerous products would be placed on the edge of forests into the environment, or on landfills, although there is already EU legislation that can be recyclable, especially hazardous waste, cannot be disposed of in a communal landfill. It's not the drill. When you go and look at a facility like this, you see that it cannot be completely filtered out. There is still a great deal of hazardous waste from households to municipal waste and from there to landfills, whether we think of used batteries, expired medicines, used baking fat or anything else. Their recycling or removal from municipal waste and collection from households has not yet been resolved in all municipalities. We should move towards this, because they pose a real threat to both the water base and our good quality of life, the environmental and health status of present and future generations. In relation to hazardous waste, cases occur from week to week, month to month, where hazardous waste is found or discovered by civil society organisations or the media. Of course, this is not a real finding, because the authorities and the owner of the waste are aware that these hazardous waste dumps exist. However, the government is also doing some kind of fire-fighting activity here - and quite rightly so - when the damage event occurs or we know about it, it is taking action to remedy the damage at great civil and opposition pressure. But basically, the government's job would not be to fire-fighting, but to prevent, and prevent, would be to devote budget resources to remediation, and this would be planned, not fire-fighterly, and every year, there is sufficient resources in the budget, and we will continue to liquidate those landfills, hazardous waste sites that are dangerous to the environment, that are currently ticking as a time bomb in all parts of the country. There is a great deal of work to be done on environmental protection and environmental product prizes, but we are moving towards technical regulations and compliance with EU legislation again. From an administrative point of view, there are minor positive changes, which - I repeat - may reduce the burden on entrepreneurs, but if we ask ten entrepreneurs, I am sure that nine out of ten consider environmental product charges as a tax to be paid, and not as an environmental fee or contribution, which would in any way motivate them to act more environmentally consciously when purchasing them. At least that's my experience. Before I was elected as a representative, I did years of environmental commissioning for various businesses, dozens of businesses, and in this context I had the pleasure or rather the misfortune of dealing with the environmental product fee. Since then, regulation has indeed changed a lot, but it has been a regulation that is extremely over-bureaucratized and does not involve environmental motivation at all. We have had to fight constantly to ensure that entrepreneurs do not try to avoid or get out of it, but to encourage them to choose to be more environmentally friendly in purchasing or to produce their products in such a way that the environment is as much burdened as possible, because I think that is the goal after all. And if such a regulation came before Parliament, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary would also be able to fully support it. [[11.00]] We are talking about administrative and technical amendments to the current Product Charges Act, and of course the government has the right to do so on its own initiative. With a good conscience, we cannot give our support. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the lead speaker of the LMP Group withdrew, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent Member was not in the Chamber, so two-minute speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2015-10-20-31	Mr President, Dear House, Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of Jobbik, has just shown in a perfect way how far the environmental expression could be removed from the product prize. It's not just because we're dealing with another type of tax that looks exotic, like the shampooist I used to be. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Or now, as a soap tax, I've been baptized by something. However, it can be said that, in the context of the proposal before us, we are aware of the regulation that, from January 2015 onwards, an environmental product fee will have to be paid for the electric controlled boiler. This is a very important thing from a consumer point of view. This perfectly symbolizes what it is, as the product fee is independent of the type of device, the extent to which it consists of recyclable or recycled parts, whether it has an eco-friendly product rating. According to press reports, this rate is 57 forints per kilo, which makes modern, energy-efficient boilers about 3-5 percent more expensive, which would be of fundamental interest to consumers as well. Meanwhile, less efficient heaters with much more wasteful use of natural resources and with a much better environmental burden do not require such additional costs. So, to approach this system from an environmental product fee point of view is at least false. It would be much more honest to talk about the transfer of a new type of tax, even if there are eligible guidelines in this proposal. But honesty here is also very important, essential. I would also like to draw the legislator's attention on this path to really taking environmental aspects into account, and to correct this particular error we have mentioned with amazing speed. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from Members; in 15 minutes' time, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-10-20-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Listening to the expos, this is what started the comment, because many sentences have been said that are in any way suitable for discussion. First of all, it is worth pointing out that the objective that the Secretary of State spoke about should also be fully supported, namely that it should be simplified and clarified. It is always good for a government to set itself a goal of making life easier for consumers or economic operators by reducing administration. There is one thing worth paying attention to here, and perhaps this is the limit to simplification, so that it does not cause problems that will lose meaning in the regulation itself, as it will become easier to play. I'm not saying that's the story here, but the goal is in any case to simplify and clarify. It is true, and my colleagues have spoken about it, and even the other opposition representatives have spoken about it, that this simplification has been limited, because I myself thought that I would read into it as a layman and look at the regulation of the law. Well, you really need to be a man who understands these rules. As Anita Heringes put it, this became much more complicated after the simplification than before. And it can also be seen that this process is not sufficiently thought out in the different working groups, as it is now the second time that we have to change this rule. Therefore, let me suggest to the government that it may not have been the best solution to abolish the Ministry of the Environment, because at that time one place, within the framework of an administrative body whose main task it is to do so, might be a much better professional proposal than when another agricultural and rural development portfolio has to deal with it. But putting it in parentheses a little, if you just put a product charge in your phone, the first hits will bring out companies that deal with this administration. I just want to take this as an example that this regulation is still very complicated, this new regulation is going to complicate this further, so once again, it will only be the companies that help other companies to understand this regulation at all and then to complicate their various legal obligations. Therefore, I would suggest to the government, although it may already be done, and then I apologize, because I have no information on the need to provide information on such legislative amendments, so to organise training and education for companies, whether with the help of the Chamber or with the involvement of a number of other civil society organisations. Because then they can interpret it sooner, and not only economic companies can profit from processing it and then offer it for serious money. Speaking of civilians, that wasn't without purpose. The resources that civilians can use in this area are shrinking. In this I would also suggest to the Secretary of State that it is worth raising the support of civilians and involving their knowledge and experience more in the flow of information or in the negotiation of different proposals. The other important pillar, which may have been spoken of by my better fellow Member and Anita mentioned, is the nature of the collection of the product fee. It seems that the environmental objective is not the number one priority, but rather how the budget can obtain resources easily and quickly. A sum of over 60 billion is included in the material, while these resources are not devoted to environmental protection, not prevention. This is difficult for me to understand because, at the time of the introduction of a chip tax or other such tax, the government's argument was to put it this way, why such new taxes should be introduced, or at least one of its arguments was that they should be introduced in order to force consumers to prevent, to eat healthy, and thus serve such an important social purpose in the field of health. Well, at this product fee, it would seem to me that these resources should then be devoted to the development of the environmental system, prevention and development of new technologies, so that the goals that my colleague Mónika Bartos spoke about can be served by the government, which are essential to achieving our environmental objectives. This is also important, and I would refer it back to the sentences of my Fidesz fellow Member for a moment, because it is important not only for consumer protection, but also for the environment, but also for the economy, how the government sees this environmental issue, whether it is a stepmom within the Ministry, or it is a very important, major priority or flagship for the government. What I see is that environmental protection is treated as a little stepchild in the Ministry, while the green economy, on the subject of environmental protection, has a great potential, not only for consumer protection, not only for climatic reasons, but also for the economy. Therefore, we had a previous proposal, which was linked to energy efficiency, which was linked to your reduction of the rent. M our proposal was to make this reduction fairer and sustainable, which would have been precisely to make the opening switch, the modernisation of heating systems, which my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, spoke about to increase the support for more modern heating equipment, so that energy efficiency would increase if necessary, thereby reducing household overhead expenditure. Of course, if a window has been changed or a heating system has been upgraded, then the value of the property of that family will also be higher, so it is useful and beneficial in all respects to launch such a program. I can see that something has happened in this case, but perhaps not to the extent that would be beneficial. Not to mention the fact that the small and medium-sized enterprise sector could benefit from such a government programme, which the government, at least at the word level, constantly supports, because in such a programme, which means the modernisation of the various housing houses in terms of heating and insulation, almost exclusively Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could participate. [[11.10]] So not only is it useful and good for families, but it could even support an industry, a variety of industries and thus provide Hungarian jobs and revenue to these businesses. So, overall, I would just like to suggest to them that it is worth considering whether to change this governance structure, or at least to be a more serious representation of the environment, the environment within the Ministry. After all, since Zoltán Illés left the government, there has been no real representation of this issue in the Fidesz fraction or at least in the government. So it would be worth considering that it should be created, and the Prime Minister is thinking about government issues now, so that even the Ministry of the Environment is not able to remove such unprofessional material from the Ministry's hands, such as this present proposal. Therefore, I would just repeat what my colleagues have said, in this form, even if we agree with the aim, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction cannot support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-20-34	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I'll give the floor to the betterman, Lajos Kepli, for two minutes.
u2015-10-20-35	Thank you very much. Joining with what my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát has said or raised the topic: how, in itself, let us say, an environmental product fee law can facilitate the spread of environmentally friendly measures such as renewable energy, it is a very good example of it or it best illustrates the opposite of the fact that an environmental product price should also be paid for solar cells. That is 115 forints per kilogram, which means an extra cost of 2000-2500 forints for each solar element, thus making the return even worse. In addition, the record high VAT that has to be paid in Hungary, including after solar panels, and all other products subject to VAT, which means that domestic entrepreneurs, renewable energy entrepreneurs, are at a disadvantage against foreign entrepreneurs. So it is more worthwhile to have a foreign entrepreneur build or create such an investment in Hungarian, which is obviously not a good thing for the Hungarian national economy. On the other hand, by increasing the payback time, fewer people will invest, obviously, as from 1 January 2015 this amendment of the law, the environmental product fee for solar panels, and even fewer people will invest in such improvements in the energy renovation of their own house. This would certainly be worth considering, since it is also in such a high category with the product fee of 115 or 114 forints per kilogram, which is even higher than, let's say, the product fee for a car battery, which is nonsense. Because although there are actually hazardous substances in a solar panel, they are heavy metals, but we should look at the purpose of saving CO2 emissions, for example, or how to protect the environment by installing a solar panel. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the law should also be amended in this respect. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-36	Thank you, Congressman Kepli. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It indicates that yes, Mr Zsolt V. Németh has the floor.
u2015-10-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank all of you for your contributions, including your praiseful thoughts; Mónika Bartos quoted the results of the period since the introduction of the Environmental Product Fee Act. Indeed, we remember the time when, standing at the cashier's counter after every fifth and sixth product, with the usual movement, the cashier also knocked down a plastic bag or two. This movement has been cancelled, thanks to the introduction of the product fee, and thus we do not pollute our environment. We have the same expectation, for example, for plastic flowers, made of materials that are unsuitable for recycling. At the thoughts of Mrs Anita Heringes, may I say that I do not wish to offend her by not understanding the bill. I'm sure you understand - you don't want to understand. But allow me, therefore, to recall your question of how the vehicle got here. I'll make it simple: a car has tires, batteries, lubrication oil, electronics, and so on. All these products are subject to product charges, and, as such, there is a huge administrative burden for the separate administration and notification of these components. Overall, this is a burden of about HUF 5000, because we say that a car is HUF 5000, and this is a simplification. Well, has the regulation changed in general? He hasn't changed in general. It would be possible to set up another logical system, but on the basis of the product fee law created by the National Assembly, it is also possible to carry out rationalizations on the basis of the request of the enforcers. Should the product fee bill be changed in general? Even this is possible, after a longer preparation, but we can only introduce any new rules in line with environmental awareness, tax discipline, production culture. After all, before the introduction of the product fee, before the collective performance, it was the individual performance, which was the least of the expectations attached to it. Simply because, in Hungarian tax discipline, I should say, entrepreneurs were interested in reducing these costs, and waste was placed in communal landfills, and indeed this system did not serve the recycling of products. On this point, Mr Lajos Kepli, and almost all the opposition's actors have spoken about the absence of the environment, which is usually associated with the institutional system. Ladies and gentlemen, So let's just say that the Ministry, the authorities, they don't appear as a purpose for the environment, they're tools. Tools to devote even more attention, even more resources to environmental issues. The figures, on the other hand, say quite different in terms of the past period, the least of which is that Hungary, the Hungarian government, would spend less on environmental matters. The issue of the environment is horizontal, it appears in almost every wallet. There is an environmental aspect of industrial activity, of construction, of education, or of agriculture, of transport. So I do not think it is possible to create a wallet that includes all environmental issues. However, the Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for environmental affairs, invests energy in assessing environmental aspects in other wallets, and does so, for example, in terms of investments. So let me share with you the results of our study prepared by the Herman Otto Institute that we have spent 2300 billion forints on environmental protection and nature protection in the last EU term. 2,300 billion! It's an incredibly large sum. Because, of course, we must not only look at the resources assigned to our portfolio or to the Ministry of Development, the operational programmes in question, but also at cross-border programmes, the LIFE programme or elements in the rural development programme. Well, let's look at how much, as you say, after your depreciation, we're going to spend on this area after you've ignored it. Well, over the next period, this will grow to 2800 billion, so with cross-border programmes, LIFE and rural development programmes, and just in rural development, the mandatory elements of the common agricultural policy, greening, for example, with payments linked to the SAPS area payment linked to compliance with nature conservation and environmental protection standards, with a total of 740 billion; a total of 3540 billion will be resources in the current EU period for environmental and nature protection. [[11.20]] In the speeches, partly relevant, but we have to burn or not burn whether thermal recovery is a question of waste management. In this case, I'd protect everyone from approaching this in a doctrine way. In other words, we say, like an axioma, that it's 50 years of technology. Yes, 50 years ago, indeed, if you look at that technology, it is already 50 years old, but as the whole waste management has evolved, so is thermal recovery. In Hungary, in response to Congressman Kepli, environmental awareness is shown, for example, by the fact that the amount of waste is reduced, and specifically, although the amount of waste deposited is much higher than that of Western European countries in Europe's developed countries, but it is also showing a downward trend, which is obviously impossible to manage without thermal recovery. And by the way, its international experience shows that it is considered least harmful in the surrounding countries. In Poland, for example, five more such incinerators will be built in the coming period, but Lithuania is also planning to implement them. The question that should be asked in waste management is what to do with mixed waste after a strong selection. What are the limits to its continued exploitation? Obviously, everything can be used. We pull out a sour cream cup, top of it is aluminum, metal. If we wash that, it's biodegradable. Gee, it's all in plastic, and it's plastic, and there's even a paper on it, and it's the price tag and it's paper. No one really believes that we can subtract the value in this, not just for multiples, like the value in the material. It is called an evolutionary dead end, so that technically it could be solved to make use of and subtract the 40 billion remaining in the waste, which could only be done for 60 billion, let's say. That is why thermal recovery is inevitable, in order to free our landfills, and obviously the slag that should be used will appear in hazardous waste landfills. Moreover, European countries have shown the example that, where recovery could be reduced to a very minimal level, there are significant combustion capacities in all countries without exception. Let me mention a few things: in Switzerland, the use of material is 51 percent, the energy is 49. In Germany, this rate is 65 and 35 percent; let's just say that, despite the news, the waste is not being processed at 100 percent. Sweden has 49 in its material and 50 percent in its energy recovery. In Austria, 59 and 37 are energy. In Hungary, 26 percent - incredibly low - and 9 - are energy recovery. So I do not think that anyone would think that Hungary should not follow this path, which is being pursued by countries with advanced waste management. Let me also mention one result in the field of waste management. The selective system, introduced from the beginning of the year, is already bringing together hopes and results, so the increase in the paper and plastic fraction is 150 percent based on the Q1 2015 preliminary data. This is a quantitative increase, and I did not mention the purity of this substance, which can be detected in the home-going system, as opposed to the assembly-insular system; it is above 90% compared to 60-70% purity here. So we have results in the field of waste management, and obviously the problems that arise in the public service will be dealt with by the government, but it is not about the consumer or the recipient of the service to notice any of these problems and that we are not able to report ever-increasing waste management indicators in Hungary. So finally, let me thank all of you for your contributions and, with regard to the amendments tabled, obviously, the professionally founded proposals will be supported by our wallet and hopefully by the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill on facial analysis and the facial analysis system will follow until closure. The Government's submission is T/6623. on a serial number available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-10-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill provides for the establishment of facial analysis records and the establishment of a legal framework for the use of biometric facial profiles for law enforcement, national security, protection of persons and the protection of facilities. The public interest in the administrative protection of document security, in preventing crime and in identifying it as quickly as possible on the basis of advanced technology that is unknown is justified by supplementing current identification methods and procedures. It is necessary to establish the legal basis for the precise and rapid identification possibilities provided by modern technologies and the use of security systems for law enforcement and administrative purposes, due to the new forms of crime and the cross-border nature of a number of criminal offences. The bill aims to refer the maintenance of biometric facial profile records and the provision of identification and identity verification services to the exclusive function of a central public body. The facial image shall be considered personal data as defined by the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. Since the facial image does not lose this quality even after its transformation, the facial image profile is also personal data, and it is therefore justified to regulate facial identification at the statutory level. The central body shall receive, in the form of an initial upload, facial images managed directly in the personal data and address register, the central travel document register, the asylum register and the two sub-registrations of the central foreign police register, which shall be deleted immediately after the facial image has been converted into a profile. Only facial images lawfully treated at the moment of uploading are uploaded during the initial upload. The facial profile of the facial image is an alphanumeric line which, in itself, is not capable of identifying the person and, in terms of the nature of the facial profile, is not suitable for reconstructing the facial image. The only connection between the facial profile and the individual citizen is a technical switch number, formed by the body that maintains the records involved in the initial uploading, regardless of the central body. [[11.30]] Following the initial upload, a continuous data transfer is carried out between all four registers and the central body, which ensures that in all cases the facial image profile of the last facial image is available, thereby ensuring the up-to-date operation of the facial profile register. The bill contains a number of guarantee rules in order to comply with data processing requirements. Among these guarantee rules, the central body carries out the processing of facial profile records separately from any other data processing and only the central body can manage all facial profile data. Together with facial profile data, other biometric profile data, such as fingerprints, cannot be managed by the central body and provides identification services only for the purposes laid down by law and exclusively for public authorities in the public sphere. The bill shall provide a taxative definition of which bodies are entitled to use facial image analysis activities, including the police, the court, the prosecutor's office, the foreign police and asylum authorities, as well as the body conducting the APB and the enforcement of sentences. There are two types of facial image analysis activity: in one case an unknown person is identified, in the other case an identity check is carried out. It is important to point out that facial image analysis activities do not compare facial images, but are facial profiles of facial image profiles treated in facial profile records and of facial images sent by the body that is eligible for identification. It should also be stressed that the data on which the comparison is based can be sent by the body requesting identification only if the person is otherwise entitled to manage his facial image. The difference between the two procedures is found by comparing the facial profile of the facial image sent from the facial image with all facial profiles of the central body in the process of identity verification with the facial profile of the facial image of the facial image sent by the body entitled to use in the process of identity verification. In both the identification procedure and the identity verification procedure, the central body shall notify the body entitled to use the results obtained, whether effective or ineffective. The comparison of facial profiles is effective if the match between the two facial profiles is shown. In the case of a match, neither the facial image or facial image profile is sent to the recipient body, but the technical switch number. The comparison of facial profiles never results in identity identification, only one finding is made, the content of which refers to the matching of the two facial profiles. The actual identification shall be made by means of the technical coupling number, which shall be sent by the central body to the recipient body. The body requesting identification shall then be able to effectively identify the person by means of the technical switch number, also on the basis of the data management rules which apply to him. In order to enable organisations entitled to use these services, which have already been mentioned, it is also necessary to amend sectoral laws. In view of the numerous data processing provisions of the bill, during the consultations, we paid particular attention to the fact that the opinion and comments of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information should be translated into the bill, thereby ensuring that the requirements laid down in the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information are complied with. The bill ensures that the National Security Service is able to access and use public data in the public interest under the APB. The purpose of this use is to inform the APB if the National Security Service detects a wanted person in the exercise of its duties under the National Security Services Act, thereby facilitating the detection or capture of wanted persons. The purpose of the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act is to ensure that the subsystems provided by the providers of communications services on the basis of the needs of the National Security Service are operated exclusively in the territory of Hungary and that the electronic communications service provider provides location data in the network as defined by the National Security Service. This amendment ensures that communications service providers are not allowed to carry subsystems abroad, which would make the National Security Service's information gathering activities impossible. The amendment to the other part of the same law aims at technical consistency and clarification of location data. Service providers are currently obliged to provide these data, but the structure and accuracy of the data vary considerably. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the technical operation is sent by the service providers in a form specified by the user organisation. Dear House, I trust that the knowledge of the law will allow you to support the law, and I trust that the bill will be supported by your votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-20-41	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill submitted by the Ministry of Interior introduces a new direction, a new development in the area of identification. New ways to commit document counterfeiting, the cross-border nature of many crimes, require the use of accurate and fast identification opportunities provided by modern technologies. The legal basis for the use of security systems enabling facial identification for law enforcement and administrative purposes is envisaged in the current bill. The social interest in the administrative protection of document security, the prevention of crime and the identification of unknown offenders, based on modern technology, within the shortest possible time, requires a review of the current identification methods and procedures, in particular with a view to exploiting the potential of data based on specific features allowing for a high degree of identity, which can be identified with great precision. In practice, the national official register would include facial profiles from facial image data, i.e. not the photograph itself, but a set of letters and numbers, i.e. not a picture, and this code will not be able to be converted into a picture. The essence of the technique is that facial recognition software can work with the right data, and it doesn't need the image as much as the summary that the software creates based on the given face. In the stored profiles, only eligible bodies would be able to search on a case-by-case basis, and there are two types of facial analysis: identification of an unknown person and verification of identity. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the vast majority of people give their images even daily on the Internet without any more serious resistance, just think about Facebook, where similar facial analysis systems are also used. In order to achieve the objectives set out, a system that facilitates the achievement of the objectives set and can be of great help to law enforcement organisations could thus be established, while respecting the relevant data protection aspects. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State left one last issue, which I would like to take forward in relation to the bill, which is a rather neurological point - this is the 25th. § 2 - which refers to the modification of the wiretapping rules. [[11.40]] We know - how much we agree with it or not - another question is that telephone and Internet service providers have been obligated to actually ensure that their customers are fully monitored, to say the storage of data. Although this number of people who have been intercepted does not change, the fact is that the National Security Service already determines the basic technical requirements under which this should take place and the system must be established and operated in Hungary. The Secretary of State gave an interesting explanation not to be rescued, if I understand correctly, by certain mobile and Internet service providers abroad. Honestly, I have a much, much worse feeling. If we compare these two provisions, namely that they must be stored in Hungary, and can only be achieved by taking into account the basic technical requirements defined by the National Security Service, then I conclude that there is a very different political motivation for telephone listening. Because so far, access to these data has, of course, been possible under the legislation, but now, if this is also in Hungary locally, and this can only happen with basic technical requirements laid down by the National Security Service, I may not have to go on with the sentence, Mr State Secretary. This is what I seriously resent, and I consider to be a political effort that is unacceptable to us. That is, if we could agree with other parts of the law - I tell you that we cannot - then we could not support the entire package of laws in itself. The other thing I would like to highlight, considering the provisions on the use of facial image analysis activities, is - and I would like to point out first - who is entitled to this data request. Let's do it. The investigating authority, including many of them, is the prosecutor's office, the prison, the body performing internal crime prevention and investigation tasks, the counter-terrorism body, the bodies empowered to collect classified information as well as to carry out secret data acquisition activities, the body carrying out the wanted list, the public authorities, such as the body responsible for citizenship, the national security services, the body set up to carry out general police tasks, the foreign police authority, the asylum authority, the National Assembly Guard. Dear Secretary of State, It might have been easier to describe it and put it in the law, who doesn't, because the list would be shorter. This is a broad circle that we consider to be wrong, and that is the second serious reason why we cannot in any way support the adoption of this bill. I'll say some right things about the law, of course, and then I'll go to the criticisms that, let's just say, we're not going to support it as a third group, or for which we're not going to support the bill as a third group. What we think is right is that the search in stored facial profiles can always be done on a case-by-case basis. At the request of the body entitled to take advantage, the central body may carry out facial analysis activities if the body entitled to take advantage clearly identifies its purpose, the data identifying the case for which it is intended, and is initiated by a person authorised in writing by the body entitled to use it. That's okay so far, as is the case with other biometric data like this. It should also be pointed out - and I am still at the positives here, although I say once again I cannot classify so much of them - that there are a number of guarantees contained in the law for the protection of personal data, so only the central body can manage the data, the bodies entitled to request the data will only receive the results of their analysis, that is correct. It is also right that the central body only handles the created profile and the contact code and does not have access to the personal data associated with it. It is also right that the bodies for which they may request an analysis are also subject to a pre-recorded record. And that's where I'd say the reviews. The proposal contains a number of barriers to the protection of personal data, but this total register, covering almost all Hungarian citizens and foreigners in Hungary, poses a serious threat to the private sector. However, the creation of a full facial profile register significantly facilitates interference in the private sector, against which the above legal guarantees do not provide sufficient protection. Once again, they're cute, just not enough. The central data management body shall be a body designated in a government regulation. It's obviously a public body. The controller may be contacted by a number of bodies for pre-defined purposes by requesting data. In some cases, the entitlement concerns sufficiently narrowly defined cases and the need for the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office to act to identify the wanted person is justified if the suspected perpetrator or the wanted entity is acting in criminal proceedings. Once again, the authorisation of the legislation, so the necessity is absolutely justified. At the same time, the purpose of the request for data and the definition of the range of right holders for national security bodies, which may require identification for the purpose of carrying out their secret information acquisition and secret data collection activities without further specification. This wide-ranging entitlement is also a concern because control of the operation of secret services is known to be weak, including in concrete cases, and is not of a political nature. Here, I would quote the position of TASZ, and in this respect we agree and share this, which says that the profiling technology poses a particular threat to the private sector, because while it may be necessary to cooperate with the person concerned with an identity document or even fingerprint identification - to supply or, say, to give fingerprints - the image can easily be identified in any situation without the knowledge of the person concerned. By means of automated identification in any situation, persons lose control of their identity. In addition, identification can be carried out remotely and even in bulk sizes. Each street camera or mobile photographer can become an identification tool that can reveal and track who, where, what the individual has done in the company. This threat is made particularly real by the spread of surveillance cameras, such as the identification of protesters. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I understand that only if there is a certain legal environment or certain legal conditions can these data be requested, but, Mr. Secretary of State, I am sorry, I must say that we do not trust you and your government; we do not trust that if all this data is handled by a public body, then let us say that a person or group of people involved in a demonstration, thus identified, will not be disadvantaged afterwards - let me say, I am thinking of losing his job here or something like that. On the NAIH website - and also with respect to the President of NAIH, who is monitoring the course of the debate - the resolutions on the draft facial profile register and the facial analysis system already have a serious precedent for this regulatory subject. So far, NAIH has dealt with this issue seven times, and I would not mention here what laws or concepts. In its latest resolution, dated 31 August 2015, it is apparent that the proliferation of biometric data management is one of the processing technologies which greatly affect the privacy of data subjects and which, by reason of the nature and purpose of the technology used, is difficult to predict, and the State has a special responsibility to ensure that the proliferation of biometric data does not jeopardise the rights to privacy and the protection of personal data. The president of NAIH and NAIH are a little more nuanced here, but these are more or less similar concerns than those expressed by me and TASZ on this subject. In principle, the NAIH stated that the use of the central biometric reference register for the whole population should be limited to the narrowest possible range. [[11.50]] I don't think that worked. In the case of adequate legal guarantees, the objective of mandatory biometric identification and identity verification is constitutionally acceptable to the fundamental interests of the State, such as the law enforcement and national security interests of the State. In terms of the protection of personal data, it is also acceptable, according to NAIH, to increase document security by biometric identity verification when issuing documents capable of proving identity, as this can prevent so-called identity thefts and misuses of false identity. The proposal allows a large number of public bodies to request data. Everyone who has a small police function has already entered this circle, and the planned guarantees do not seem sufficient to prevent the creation of a personality profile, especially for political purposes, which I referred to earlier in my speech. Thus, in many respects, the limitation is unnecessary or disproportionate, so the overall necessity-proportionality test in Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law, and therefore the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, suffer as we see fit. The constitutional solution is particularly difficult to grasp on this issue, but overall the guarantees offered in the proposal are not sufficient to guarantee either the private sector or the right to self-determination of information. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons listed above, we will not support or even reject this bill in the strongest possible way. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Firtl Mátyás.
u2015-10-20-45	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6623. The proposed legislation justifies and requires the addition of current identification methods and procedures to the public interest in the administrative protection of document security, prevention of crime and identification of unknown offenders within a short period of time, based on modern technology. This is also required by the new forms of document counterfeiting, the cross-border nature of a number of crimes. Only yesterday's example: we learned from the news that the Slovaks were getting the car on Hungarian order, and the Serbs were providing it with a document, so it is absolutely justified that these document checks can actually be carried out. The purpose of the bill is to create the legal conditions of a system of facial profiles registration which, while respecting the constitutional right to the protection of personal data, supports the identification activities of bodies entitled to request data. The basic principles of the law stem from the primacy of the constitutional right to the protection of personal data and lay down the essential conditions for its enforcement. It is noted that only the central body can manage the totality of the facial profiles, which can be performed separately from any other data processing, for the purposes laid down by law and only by the body entitled to use it. The system to be established and regulated by law is a national official register containing only the facial profile data and the technical switching numbers assigned to the citizens covered by this Act. The facial image is the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. By virtue of the definition of a law, hereinafter referred to as the Information Act, it constitutes personal data, which the Constitutional Court has issued in several decisions. According to the Ab Decision, the recording obtained following visual observation, recorded on some medium, is considered personal data. Since the facial image does not lose this quality even after the transformation, the facial image profile is also personal data. In the context of the planned legislation, the information law is set out in Article 5 of the info law. Paragraph 1 (a) (b) provides for mandatory processing of data. The Information Act 5. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the types of data to be processed, the purpose and conditions of data processing and the ability to know the data, the duration of the data processing, and the data controller's identity are determined by the Act ordering data processing. On the basis of the arguments set out above, taking into account the provisions of Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law, legislation on biometric facial identification is justified. Scope of data processed in the register: facial profiles and the technical switching numbers assigned to them. The management of the register shall be the responsibility of the central body which, on the basis of the notification of the body responsible for the communication, shall ensure that each item of the register is entered and deleted. The technical switch number shall be constructed in such a way that no sectoral identification code or other identification data can be recovered from it. Each technical switch number is unique, not commonly used, and is therefore not suitable for linking data processing. The bill complies with the requirement of constitutional, so-called split information systems arising from the right to the protection of personal data, on the basis of which the scope of personal data processed from the same data subject by a controller may be limited to the minimum necessary and should not result in the controller having access to a wide range of data capable of creating a personality profile. The records shall treat the personal data of data subjects in a manner limited to those purposes within the framework of the statutory purposes of data processing. Following the entry into force of the Act, a so-called prehistoric upload takes place in order to provide the central body with portraits managed in statutory records. To this end, the body managing the central travel document register and the road transport register shall transfer the citizen's facial image and natural identity data to the body keeping the personal data and address register. These are facial images of citizens who are listed in the I.D. and address records. The register shall constitute a technical switch number for these facial images and shall be handed over together to the central body responsible for the operation of the facial analysis system. It is also part of the uploading of facial images belonging to Hungarian citizens with a travel document not included in the register. The taxative of the bill determines which bodies are entitled to use facial image analysis. Therefore, the bodies already listed in detail by Mr Barándy are not entitled to access, but to request data. In all cases, the search in stored facial profiles is done on a case-by-case basis. At the request of the body entitled to take advantage, the central body may carry out facial analysis activities if the body entitled to take advantage clearly identifies its purpose, the data identifying the case for which it is intended, and is initiated by a person authorised in writing by the body entitled to use it. As has already been said, there are two types of facial analysis: one is the identification of the unknown person and the other is the verification of identity. In the case of identification of unknown persons, facial profiles trained from facial images from bodies entitled to request data, such as the investigating authority, shall be compared with all facial profiles managed in the facial profile register. In the case of verification of identity, however, a facial profile of a person's facial image is compared to the profile in the facial profile register. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Only the connection code assigned to the relevant facial profile shall be transferred to the data claim holder after the evaluation activity has been performed in the framework of the reporting. The data request shall be made through the interface of the integrated portal-based query system and shall receive, in accordance with its right, personal data belonging to the dedicated contact code managed in the personal data and address register, in accordance with a separate procedure initiated by it. The transmission of the contact code to the holder of the data request shall be subject to continuous, comprehensive logging. This is done in full compliance with data protection and data security requirements. The bodies authorised to apply for data and persons authorised to access them on behalf of those bodies shall be recorded in a separate register of eligibility. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I propose the adoption and support of the bill, especially the current situations that are necessary in Hungary and at our borders, due to cross-border systems. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-10-20-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If it were really just for reasons of document security, law enforcement and crime prevention to justify the negotiation and adoption of this law, if there really were a government in this country that we could have full confidence in and believe that we could really talk about the identification of an unknown person, a person staying in an unknown place or an unknown dead person, then we could say that it doesn't make sense to argue about it too much. These are, individually and collectively, eligible targets. We would vote for this bill, and we could move on to the next bill. However, there are a number of concerns, since they try to regulate very sensitive issues in a very airy, unregulated, foggy way, in a very windy law. On the one hand, I share the opposition's concern that the list of bodies and authorities that have access to this system is incredibly long and unduly long. On the other hand, a number of issues have not been resolved in the norm, in the general or in-depth justifications, or in any other way, and have not been properly informed either by the pro-government or the opposition representatives. It seriously undermines and weakens trust, and it is also of concern from a guarantee point of view that they intend to define the central body, which will carry out this data processing, data analysis and data evaluation in a regulatory and regulatory way. We don't even know if it's an existing body, a new body, how much of this budget, how many people are going to work there. A figure of about four billion has been said. Whether the system has a one-year operation in this amount of $4 billion, whether it includes the purchase of the relevant software or what this HUF 4 billion contains, we have no precise concept. Moreover, we do not know either, but if you know more, please inform us, opposition representatives, which company's software will be purchased by the Hungarian government, with or without a public procurement procedure, because it is obviously possible to buy an existing program. Or, if the program is under development, who will make the development, whether it is created in Hungary or abroad, if it is a foreign-owned company, what kind of national security concerns does it raise? So there are a series of unanswered questions that have a significant impact on the vote that can ultimately be cast on this proposal. Thus, it cannot be supported, so such a proposal, which has been completed in such a way as to be such an important issue, in this form, with such shortcomings, certainly cannot be supported by a party of opposition who is self-respecting and responsible. It is clear that despite the long list, there will be mainly police, prosecutorial, but primarily intelligence access. So it's mostly police and secret service, secret intelligence, secret data collection work that requires this database. Of course, it's nice to say that they don't store the photo on their own, but the profile of letters and numbers, which also includes a contact code, and the original photo cannot really be unraveled. But then we also need to see that when a comparative, comparative-analysis program is launched, and there may be some kind of hit, otherwise fifty likely hits or probable searches may be in an average comparison. But if, for example, a surveillance camera captures a crime, identifies the unsub's facial image, and this profile is presented by the police for comparative analysis, starts comparing it to the data already stored, and there's some kind of probable hit or probable hit, then it could affect up to 50 profiles close to each other. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In the event that they are close to identifying the perpetrator, then up to fifty photos - to keep this example - or even a larger number of photographs - can be retrieved from the database, the original photo can be retrieved from the database. Again, as I just said, it is quite breathless and vaguely understood or excluded from this bill. But let me give you a list of some further concerns that have otherwise been expressed either by a data protection authority or by other organisations on different portals or by other means. It's hard to say IT can't really recover that profile, there aren't enough guarantees for that. What if they don't delete the original photos, yet the authority that we don't even know which authority, which central body will be? What guarantees are there that the various data will not be released to the police or secret services in an unjustified number? What has been said here by Congressman Bárándy is particularly thoughtful, as it is indeed well-known that the various telephone operators, Internet service providers, should make entry to the market or development in such a way as to ensure eavesdropability, so that these lines or Internet channels can be tapped in Hungarian, which are then used by the users of the service. In this case, we ask again which company will use the software and software of which it is developed or under development. It would be nice to have information about the former. Then there are other data protection concerns, as we do not see that there is a certainty that any other public body would be prohibited from accessing these data, so not only the designated central body, not the central body designated by law, but also other public bodies may, where appropriate, produce, collect and store such data. This is obviously not eligible, but the existence of these guarantees is yet again very important. How can the contact code be created in such a way that it cannot really be misused? It could only be used for state interest, for example, for sporting events. It is no coincidence that some experts mention the use of sports events. Otherwise, I will go back to this briefly, or I will return, because this is a particularly worrying area, and for the whole of the whole society and the number of people, it may seem insignificant, but it is a very large and loud group, the cheerleading subculture has already suffered over the last few years what it means when Fidesz-KDNP starts to collect data and store data. There, by the way, since private companies may be able to process certain data, the situation is even more uncertain. Then how can we guarantee that there will be no mass observations or mass unjustified data collection? If appropriate, can not only the recording of a surveillance camera recording a crime give rise to, say, comparative analysis, but also to participation in a protest, a government decision or a demonstration against government policy, result in inclusion in a database or a retention in the database of at least 20 years old? At least that's a concern. Always think with a little head when you were in opposition, and when a fairly large number of protests were opened or protested against Balliberal governments in Hungary, what would they have said if the then MSZP-SZDSZ government had come up with such proposals. It also increases our suspicions, which, as mentioned above, occurred with fans, fans' records of so-called entry systems, whether fingerprinted or vein-kennered or retinal reading systems. Most recently, it has been possible for sports associations not to be obliged, but only to apply these systems. Unfortunately, however, these systems are still being used at Ferencváros. [[12.10]] It is no wonder that the fans are distrustful, as there may be multiple repeat criminals who may have access to the data. Well, maybe from this one here, let's just say it doesn't have to be, but they're sitting on the other side of the horse. What is happening with fans must be said in the context of Fidesz' success in creating a new principle of law, which is a presumption of collective guilt. The presumption of guilt is an old, obsolete, outdated, medieval principle of law, and collective guilt is called XX. The concept related to the most devastating ideas of the century and, where appropriate, the two world wars. You combined this, unfortunately in a very unfortunate way, and formed the presumption of collective guilt. In other words, any cheerleader can be included in these databases, no matter whether he has committed or never committed anything, he will be included, assuming that anyone can commit any crime at any time - and I said that collective crime is presumed to be committed - and then, if necessary, they will seek it back. I think it should be the other way around: someone should be in that database when they give you a reason. If you commit any type of crime, which may occur at, say, a sporting event, you should enter and, where appropriate, use it to carry out the ban, to check the ban. It is already a database based on perfectly legal and acceptable reasoning and the use of the data there, such as assuming - and this is also felt from this proposal - that everyone from whom a facial image is required should be included, in the interests of safety, so that passport, ID card, driver's license should be entered in this register only, and then you never know if these data will be necessary for some comparative analysis at some point. I'm not sure that this is as democratic in this form as you try to make yourself believe. Again, it would be a different approach from the lead speaker of the KDNP to the end, that we are living in difficult times of modern migration, and, if it were necessary for the identification of third-country nationals from third countries in this way, then it would obviously be different or other and supportive - I say this in advance - the Jobbik's position, as, to put it mildly, there is a high probability that terrorists or suspected terrorist elements could infiltrate Hungary or Hungary through EU countries or non-EU countries to other European countries. That's a different story, that's a different goal, that's a Eligible proposal. Here, however, they are mixing the two; and I anticipate that the opposition group that will not support it will again be offered that it did not support the anti-terrorist efforts, now that it has an interest in increasing the threat of terrorism, before the terrorist threat to Hungary is released, it wants to open the gates wide. It's not that. It is a matter of making a separate law, because it is more than likely that we would support it with proper regulation and then renegotiate this proposal with regard to non-member countries. But this, combining the two as a kind of salad proposal, gives us the opportunity to constantly read our heads in opposition protest, in case of opposition non-votes - the uncoroned king of Károly Kontra, by the way, today in the Hungarian Parliament. So I ask you to consider this, that, in the context of the migrant crisis, in the context of the increase in the threat of terrorism, the migration wave... [[Charles Kontra enters the Chamber.]] My respects, Mr. Secretary, I just mentioned your identity. I am glad that you will find understanding ears, and I hope that you will respond to this, although I will envelop it in advance, that it will open up a new blow, a new perspective for you in the field of the opposition's food, but we will try to minimize these ambitions and suppress them in the bud, and I would like to say this in advance in the spirit of sport. So there are plenty of data protection concerns at official, data protection officer level, there are plenty of unregulated parts and issues that are not necessarily in the norm, but should otherwise have been placed in an explanatory memorandum or otherwise placed in a prospectus or informed the opposition of their purpose, as almost all Hungarian citizens will sooner or later be included in this, and guarantees and guarantees in legal certainty will be violated on several points. Of course, it is always a question of how far the state can go, how far it can limit citizens' rights, let's say, in times of terrorism, there is a common sense. And you can't press a very button on a Bianko check or a bag cat, so this proposal still needs to be polished to make it acceptable to Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-48	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, is coming to a speech. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Once again, a bill has come before the Parliament, which concerns our constitutional fundamental rights and is about some kind of limitation. For many time now, we are faced with the government's desire to take the easy way to carry out its tasks and not having regard to the further consequences of its actions beyond solving the targeted problem. It is a long time to be shocked that, in the case of amendments to our fundamental personality rights, there will be no proper impact assessment, no actual and substantive social consultation, and no consideration will be given to the opinions of professional organisations. The LMP does not dispute that the need for more effective law enforcement and the increased threat of terrorism in the world justify the use of available technological innovations, the use of new technologies, such as biometric identification and related data processing, in many cases necessarily entails some level of violation of our fundamental rights. But it is not okay that in such cases the Fidesz government has been justified by the principles of necessity and proportionality at the level of legal restrictions, and is moving with a kill step towards a world where our personal life takes place in front of Big Brother's eyes. Fidesz has ruled against data protection over the last five years against the right of Hungarian citizens to the private sphere. The first real attack on the personal data security of Hungarian people was the abolition of data protection commissioner institutions. The LMP still opposed this and has been against it ever since because there is no independent body today capable of effectively taking action against State overencryption or surveillance against citizens. The LMP insists that Hungarian people need a state that is transparent and does not collect unnecessary data based on the principle of security, a state that does not leave the possibility of abuse. On these issues, we cannot be naive, we cannot underestimate the unscrupulousness of the corrupt political elite who clings to his power. We can't trust that power will limit itself, and even if it had the chance, it won't abuse the data we have collected about us. We have to assume that what they can do in this system with our data will be done sooner or later. Just think of the number of cases where data and information managed by public authorities are already available to government media, especially when they are a disadvantage to opposition representatives or to their already disgraced oligarchs. For example, here is the latest case when the Hungarian National Bank of Matolcsy announced to the Hungarian National Journalist of the Hungarian Nation that they knew that he had a loan, kicking up the institution of bank secrets without further ado. But we can think not only of Hungarian examples here. Here is the Snowden case, for example, where it can also be pointed out that in more developed democracies than we do, the state apparatus uses the data it manages illegally against its own citizens. In this spirit, we must take up any bill that provides for the recording and processing of our personal data, including a draft that wants to place our facial image data in a central database before this House. The proposal does not frigate it: it provides for the creation of a central database that registers the facial profiles of all Hungarian citizens. Here we must state the fundamental fact that Attila Péterfalvi, President of NAIH, pointed out in the proposal that the registration of all citizens is a serious threat to the private sector. The reason why profiling technology poses a particular threat to the private sector is that, while identity or even fingerprint identification may require the cooperation of the data subject, such as the transfer of a card or the submission of a fingerprint, the facial image can easily be identified without the knowledge of the data subject in any situation. [[12.20]] With this automated identification, citizens lose control of their identity. In addition, identification can be carried out remotely and even in bulk sizes. Each street camera or mobile photo can become a means of identification that can reveal and track where and what the individual is doing in whose company. In particular, this threat is made real by the spread of CCTV cameras; in the case of a CCTV system, the possible connection with the database or the use of its images allows the identification of streetwalkers or members of a crowd, such as those involved in a protest. In fact, the bill contains guarantees for the protection of personal data. Such a guarantee may be that only the central body can manage the data and that the bodies entitled to request the data will receive only the result of their verification or that the central body will only manage the profile link code created and shall not have access to the relevant personal data. But these guarantees are insufficient, the creation of a full facial profile register actually makes it significantly easier to intervene in the private sector. For example, the guarantee provided by the designation of a central data management body is significantly weakened by the fact that the institution is designated by the government in a regulation. It is not clear from the draft that the controller will become a new independent body, but in the absence of this, the guarantee will become empty and formal. Personal data may be protected by legal and technical guarantees. The most powerful technical guarantee is clearly that no personal data is processed or technically impossible to access. Compared to technical guarantees, legal guarantees are always possible, as they can be easily altered or even removed. In order to be able to fulfil their purpose, it is necessary, on the one hand, to monitor their compliance by effective means, to ensure that the rules that constitute legal guarantees cannot be broken without consequences, and, on the other hand, to prevent amendments by the Constitutional Protection Body, such as the Constitutional Court, from destroying legal guarantees, the rules containing guarantees cannot be changed freely. As I pointed out earlier, these institutional conditions do not exist in Hungary, on the contrary, they have been weakened continuously in recent years. A number of bodies may contact the data controller as proposed for pre-defined purposes by requesting data. In some cases, these entitlements relate to narrowly defined cases and their need is justified. Such is the fact that, in criminal proceedings, the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office request data to identify the wanted person, i.e. when it is necessary to identify a wanted person. But here again, I must reiterate that there are no real limits to emptying the relatively acceptable regulation in practice. In addition, there is also a part of the scope of rights to request data that is exaggerated; for example, in the case of national security bodies, which may require identification in order to carry out their secret information acquisition and secret data collection activities without further specification. This wide-ranging entitlement is also a concern because control of the operation of secret services is known to be weak, including in concrete cases, and is not of a political nature. I believe that, without a detailed impact assessment on such issues, such a proposal should not be presented to this House, because without such an examination, it is not possible to deal with the possible consequences of the fundamental rights limitation. It is no coincidence that Attila Péterfalvi also drew attention to this during the discussion of the proposal. Overall, I must say that the LMP cannot support the proposal, because the necessity and proportionality of the fundamental rights restriction are not supported by an impact assessment, and because the Fidesz government's activities in the field of data protection do not give rise to any confidence that the government will not abuse our data to be processed in the database to be set up. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-20-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Ms Ágnes Vadai has withdrawn her intention to speak. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech and no one has applied for a written speech, we are now going to take part in the speeches made in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-51	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying what has been said here many times from the opposition benches, and this is a lack of trust. If I wanted to be fair, I think that this situation could have been the other way around, that earlier an MSZP State Secretary said that they wanted to introduce such a system, and then the Fidesz opposition would most likely have responded similarly to the proposals. I would like to move this forward because I think the objective of the government is understandable. In a globally changing world where there are thousands of new dangers, I think it is right and right for the government to think about how the government can better meet the new security challenges, how it can guarantee the safety of its citizens, the people who live here. But if the problem is that there is a lack of trust, then the government should, as a matter of course, think about how this lack of trust can be eliminated, how to build guarantees in this law, or with amendments, that are better served by transparency and, where appropriate, controllability. Listening to the debate, opposition criticism has peaked around several points; let me draw attention to them once again. One is the new office. Every time something new comes up, there is a lot of uncertainty about who, what technical parameters, how it will work, the 4 billion HUF that many people have mentioned, how it will be used. The other is the protection of personal data, data security. While preparing for the speech, I thought it was very interesting that citizens in Hungary prefer to give their data to a foreign multinational company rather than to the Hungarian state. Almost everyone gives their data to Facebook, and they upload not only a picture, but thousands of pictures of their family, their children and everyone. So if I want to know something about someone, I don't need to be a secret servant today to get a lot of information, but I can do it with Facebook, and in other cases, the competent public welcomes what kind of facial recognition software Facebook has, which is almost more accurate than human facial recognition. So on the one hand, it can be seen that the security of people's data, the security of their personal data, in one case - let me in particular stay with this example, Facebook - raises minor concerns, but when the current government wants to do something like this, of course, there is greater aversion. This is probably normal, and it certainly comes from our relatively young democracy, but it is worth paying attention to how they can better ensure the protection of the private sector. The other one is what the reason is. Everyone is concerned and rightly about the basis on which such identification can be requested, adding, of course, who can request this identification. It is also linked to how it can be verified that this is done according to the legislation. Because legal guarantees are important, but if we don't know that there's been a breach of law somewhere, then we can't detect it, and we can't even defend ourselves against it. The other is a perfectly clear issue which concerns all opposition representatives rightly, namely mass identification. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, also spoke about it, but also my fellow Member, Mr Gergő Bárándy, said that at a protest or a major event there could also be the identification of people who might not be involved in any crime. This is true of the sporting event - although this is excluded by the law - but it may be true of any other major event where, theoretically, the police may be allowed to be outside because of public security or other suspicions of terrorism. The third point is the wiretap practice of the secret services. The Secretary of State may be able to explain in his reply why the practice so far has not been adequate, why it is not good to ask the service providers, as has been before, and to store these audio material, SMS and make it available why this should be stored at all costs on Hungarian servers. [[12.30]] So technically, you don't understand exactly that if the solution to the task is to have the audio materials that the services need, then why it doesn't matter how and how. There may be a professional solution to this, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, but in any way this mistrust can be further strengthened by this issue. Secondly, how to guarantee that there is a continuous control in this regard from the point of view of transparency. Let it be a continuous check that these objectives are achieved as, if not taken, according to the intention of the legislator, and how to detect simple data request methods, that it is simply for a large event today, when there are so many ways to threaten terrorism in Hungary, it is easiest to say that there is potentially a terrorist threat or a threat to terrorism, and that at that moment there are many other uses of these data. This is true in the case of wiretapping, and much more, that, if there are 3-4 numbers to be checked, another one is added to it, it is likely to slip through the controls. However, if there is a continuous monitoring, a transparency, then these errors also arise mutatis mutandis, and it is very difficult to make a bigger mistake from the secret services side to use these very important safety data and tools for an inadequate purpose. In conclusion, I would like to suggest to Mr Secretary of State that it is worth thinking a little bit about the items in the debate, since they may be corrected by an amendment. We do not yet see the government's intention precisely, because the debate has just begun. But these points are those on which we can see, no matter which party speaks to them, there is a rendezvous point, and we have come to these conclusions independently of each other. So in any case, I would suggest to Mr Secretary of State that, on the basis of both the Data Protection Ombudsman and our proposals, additional guarantees should be incorporated into the law and that increased transparency would certainly help to make this legislation and this instrument more effective. Honestly, I didn't talk to Gergő Bárándy, and I'd like to be a little more careful about rejection. I could say that if these guarantees can be incorporated, I even think that this proposal could be suitable for supporting the current opposition. But this depends on how we move forward in these areas and on the compromise the government is prepared to make. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-10-20-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The introduction or use of modern technology or new technology always raises exciting questions, especially when it is intended to be used by the state and by protective organisations that guarantee the safety of people. The speeches mentioned several times that today there are a number of systems related to the Internet for which citizens are publishing their own data in a large number and very detailed manner. I would even argue with the opinion that they are aware of the types of software they collect, profile these data. Those who open themselves to a fairly large extent are practically, obviously primarily commercial service providers, having almost accurate, personalised data for advertising purposes, perhaps much more accurate than the state or public bodies. Obviously, if such technology exists, such technology is given, then the question arises, and the State is responsible for the ability of the State to use these technologies for the purpose of guaranteeing the security of citizens, tackling the challenges posed by law enforcement or, where appropriate, the migration crisis. I believe that the bill tabled has changed since the conciliation and has sought to take into account all the points raised in relation to information security. So this bill guarantees that there will be no use, no use for purposes that would limit the freedom of citizens in any way. Indeed, many here have suggested that they find it too wide for those who can use it, but they need to look beyond what these organisations can use it for. A simple identity check at an entry obviously means a much narrower application than, where appropriate, law enforcement. The question arose as to what software, what tools and who would operate it. I think it would be strange if a bill were to deal with where the government would buy the tools, software and hardware needed to implement the law that will be passed. Obviously, this is not the purpose of the law, nor is the bill the instrument for determining future contractors or suppliers. I think that this is definitely not in the law. Obviously, it is extremely important that the tools and software to be acquired are capable of providing all the legal criteria necessary to ensure that citizens really feel safe, and that this law continues to ensure the security of their personal data, and that these instruments can also ensure confidentiality in a truly appropriate way. The speeches felt, as is usually the case with every bill, a good amount of political concern, a suggestion. I find it a little charming that while we are concerned about losing or losing identity, the speech of the lead speakers of MSZP and LMP was not exactly the same in content, but literally in stages. They used identical sentences, identical concepts, identical compositions. So it wasn't exactly the same, it was literally, and it wasn't to a small extent. This is obviously where the loss of identity has already started, but this is not a comment related to the bill itself, and I apologize for that. I trust that the amendments to the bill will help to improve and adopt the bill, and then the contributions that have been directed at it, and I thank Mr Mesterházy and also the representatives of the governing parties, and the further stage of the debate will help us to adopt a good law. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. a general debate on the amendment of laws and, in this context, of certain additional laws until closure. The government's submission is T/6625. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is about the necessary amendments to the law for the swift and effective conduct of infringement procedures and for the establishment of uniform case-law. In 2012, the new infringement law came into force, which created a system of infringement proceedings based on the principles of graduality, effective and rapid procedure. The current amendment is justified by the practical experience that has arisen since then, in particular by resolving, clarifying and establishing a uniform and consistent practice of law enforcement. [[12.40]] In addition, the bill introduces new legal institutions and new facts to improve the effectiveness of procedures and proposes to amend the text of certain existing facts. Dear Parliament, As a new legal institution, the bill allows the court and the police to seek and request information and data from a public or municipal body and authority to clarify the facts of the case in the proceedings concerning an offence which may be committed against an unknown person. In view of the principle of gradual application in the area of infringement law since 2012 and the need to ensure consistency with criminal law, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the current juvenile infringement penalties and measures by suspending the enforcement of the detention of infringements, which may be identified as an alternative to the infringement procedure, on a probationary basis. This is because detention against juvenile offenders, as the strictest punishment, can only take place in the final case and in the light of the requirements of expediency and proportionality. Thus, with the requirement of gradualness in mind, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of punishing the material gravity of the act and the personal circumstances of the perpetrator. The bill proposes to supplement the main rule of the right to compensation in order to eliminate the abuse of the right to compensation by not providing compensation in cases where the reason for the termination of the proceedings in the case concerned is that the act is a criminal offence and that the offence in the main proceedings can be counted against the penalty imposed in the course of criminal proceedings. At the same time, it is necessary to amend the criminal law rules by including in criminal proceedings penalties carried out under the infringement procedure. To this end, the bill also proposes to amend the Criminal Code Act. Dear Parliament, The bill proposes the introduction of the following new offences. Due to the increased risk to society of the possession of new psychoactive substances, the bill would punish the possession of a small amount of new psychoactive substance, i.e. a quantity not exceeding 10 grams, as an infringement. As a new offence, it would impose a penalty for disturbing the operation of a public service plant to a level of criminality. In addition, several existing offences are changed. For example, in the case of the case of the obligation to participate in kindergarten education and the breach of the obligation to teach, the bill proposes two amendments: on the one hand, it clarifies the facts by having only one place in a year of education and teaching, and on the other hand, in child protection, the guardian is excluded from the subject of this turn of the offence. The bill clarifies the wording of the conduct of the offence in respect of the infringement of the term "unauthorized public sales'. The proposals for an accelerated amendment to the bill are as follows. To facilitate practical implementation, it regulates remedies in a uniform order. In order to establish transparent regulation, it clarifies and organises rules for working in the public interest with a view to promoting uniform case-law. An effective and rapid procedure is also supported by a provision that provides the forestry authority, the nature conservation authority and the tax authority with direct access to the data necessary for the performance of their tasks. In addition, the bill contains proposals for amendments to comply with European Union law. The provisions aimed at strengthening and effectively exercising the rights of defence of the person subject to the procedure, as well as provisions to ensure the representation of the interests of juveniles in custody, should be highlighted. In addition to the amendment of the Violation Act and the Criminal Code, the bill also includes an amendment to the Law on Invalidity. Accordingly, in the event of the adoption of the amendment, it would be possible to transfer enforcement procedures under the law to a foreign authority, as would be the case for the receipt of fines imposed abroad. This amendment is primarily intended for the accountability of foreign citizens who have committed an offence in Hungary, but does not jeopardise and fully comply with the mandatory requirements of the European Union. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill that has been tabled and to support it, to accept it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-20-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Agh, the lead speaker of Fidesz.
u2015-10-20-57	Dear Parliament, In order to ensure uniform application of the law, the 2012 II on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements became necessary. Act XXXVI of 2007 on Legal Assistance in Violations amendment of the law. The bill submitted by the Government does not contain any conceptual amendments compared to previous legislation, but the experience gained by the law enforcement bodies since the entry into force of the new code and the fulfilment of EU legal obligations justify the current amendment. The right of infringement includes, on the one hand, acts which are less dangerous to society and, on the other, behaviour which violates the order of the public administration. The new code has broken with previous legislation on several points, for example, the concept of non-compliance has changed, substantive rules have changed and changes could still be classified. The amendment of the law aims to correct these problems, to correct shortcomings and to comply with the harmonisation of EU legislation. The bill contains a new legal institution for the suspension of the enforcement of the detention of offences in respect of minors, which further broadens the scope for the courts to exercise their rights in the case of minors. The bill is Btk. establish a framework for guaranteeing fundamental rights in accordance with its regulatory principles and with the rules of procedure appearing in Community standards. With the introduction of a new legal case, the Btk determines the scope of infringements committed by disrupting the operation of a public service plant. In parallel with the introduction of the appropriate category of criminal penalties, it is appropriate to introduce a new case of non-compliance. In order to establish transparent regulation, the proposal clarifies and organises provisions on public service work with a view to facilitating uniform case-law. Rules on the right of representation will be amended in order to achieve harmonisation resulting from the EU acquis and the possibility of waiver of the right of representation will also be ensured. As a new legal institution, the request and presentation of recognition are introduced, which have been included in the proposal with appropriate guarantees, as in the criminal proceedings system. The possibility of direct access to registers will be governed in the future by the act of infringement, given that the various authorities have direct access to the criminal record required by law during their authorisation procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, We therefore respectfully ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-20-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be delivered by Mrs Márta Demeter, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-20-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Let me begin by saying a few words about the history of the proposal before us. The Violation Act was adopted by the Parliament in December 2011. In Parliament's debate on the bill, the MSZP expressed a sharp criticism, and we explained that the new law on infringements is twisting the logic of the infringement law. As regards sanctions, it introduces a rigour typical of criminal law, while not only maintaining a simpler procedure with fewer guarantees, but also substantially extending the scope of the determining authorities. Thus, in essence, the government abuses the potential of infringement law and allows the authorities of the State to act with the hardest means, in their best interest, against even the smallest infringements, without the guarantees of criminal proceedings. [[12.50]] The MSZP also objected to the lack of professional development of the law. I would like to mention a few things from the criticisms in principle that we formulated before the adoption of the law. In our view, it was timely to renew the infringement law in 2011. It is true that the bill tabled by the Government included both forward-looking and conceptually new solutions, but, nevertheless, it was not eligible in the form that it had already been put before the House. The whole of the bill has been affected by the fundamentally flawed fidesz approach that social problems can simply be solved by increasing sanctions and using force. We have seen many examples of this since then, haven't we? The amount of fines that can be imposed on offenders has increased dramatically. Even in the case of minor infringements, it is possible to impose a fine of up to HUF 150,000 or an on-the-spot fine of HUF 70,000. In the case of infringements of a mild weight recognised by the author, the imposition of such penalties is a disproportionate burden for families who are increasingly difficult to live. The excessive freedom of authorities to decide on sanctions and the increased fines increase the risk of corruption and the suspicion has been raised, which has since proved that the government will consider the new infringement law to be a means of collecting money. In particular, we pointed out in the 2011 debate that the exclusion of minors is completely unacceptable, because it is not compatible with the obligation to teach and the approach to child protection so far. We believe that this is due to school drop-out, stigmatization, which makes the so-called undesirable criminal career even more likely, and the final stop of this could be a life sentence suspended by the law. So these criticisms were already formulated. These criticisms are largely confirmed by the three and a half years that have passed since the entry into force of the law. Before the law came into force, in the spring of 2012 the government had this law rewritten with Parliament, and almost all law enforcement salad laws contained an infringement law amendment. Speaking of the proposal before us, according to the rapporteur's justification, the submission of the proposal was made necessary by the transfer of the experience of the last period in the application of the law through the Violent Law, as State Secretary Károly Kontra pointed out. Accordingly, the proposal mainly contains legal technical provisions improving the coherence of the Violation Act. However, I would like to emphasise once again that these provisions have been amended several times, and they always do so in a wide range. A few comments to the bill before us: we see, and the whole House can see, that the government itself considers the Code of Violations to be improved. In the majority of the proposal, there are provisions improving the coherence of the Violation Act, which I also highlighted earlier, and there is also a welcome element, such as the new provisions on the right of representation. New offences, disrupting the operation of a public service operation, violations of a new psychoactive substance, as Mr Secretary of State has said, can also be considered a proportionate legislative response to these low-weight, but undoubtedly dangerous, increased phenomena to society. Similarly, the extension of firearms offences can also be considered proportionate. I would like to highlight three more specific points. One of them is that the detention of minors will be suspended. The probation period can range from one month to six months. A suspended detention shall be carried out if an offence against a minor is punishable by an offence which is subject to detention during a probation period. I have to say that this step is certainly positive compared to what has been done so far, but we continue to maintain our criticisms of principle. We maintain these in practice, too, because it is a fact that we must act against juvenile offenders, but it is also a fact that to date, it has not been resolved and raises many questions about, for example, how education has been solved for these children. And here again, I would like to highlight the risk of developing this so-called criminal career and stigmatization, and what aggravating circumstance that could be. So I have to say that the change is, of course, a positive change, but we are still saying that we have substantial reservations about this. The other thing I would like to highlight is an important new provision that, in the case of infringements which may be subject to detention, state and local government bodies or authorities may be contacted in order to communicate the information necessary to detect an infringement. In addition, public bodies, farmers and civil society organisations may be contacted in the case of priority traffic offences. It is therefore interesting to point out that while in other criminal offences, it does not allow this request, so in the case of traffic offences this will be highlighted separately, and there is a specific possibility. So I would like to sum up our opinion and what has been said so far. The bill we have just tabled shows that it amends, in a number of ways, the law on infringements in force, the fact that there are forward-looking amendments, however, it is also a fact that they do not remedy the fundamental and conceptual errors of the Code of Violations, which we have already highlighted in 2012 and in the 2012 amendments. So we continue to believe that we need to replace the current, fundamentally wrong law, by clarifying the relationship between the law of infringement, criminal law and the right of infringement and the re-regulation of the system. Therefore, the MSZP will not support the migration of the existing code. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-20-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-20-61	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is T/6625. No. 2 of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. and, in this context, its bill amending certain additional laws. The purpose of the amendment is to incorporate the experience of the law enforcement bodies into the Code of Violations and to fulfil EU legal obligations. Violations are criminal acts which violate or threaten the generally accepted rules of social co-existence, but do not have the risks and dangers necessary to order a criminal offence. Violation and violation rights, violations, generally do not achieve moral disapproval of society, and lower and measurable material damage to such acts. Therefore, the legislator does not impose any criminal consequences on it. The two large categories of offences: criminal offences are facts which correspond to the part of a minor criminal case which is generally unrelated to the public administration; infringements against the public administration are behaviours which are not of a criminal nature and have no criminal connection. The right of infringement includes, on the one hand, acts which are less dangerous to society and, on the other, behaviour which violates the order of the public administration. This area of law is between two jurisdictions, the concept and the procedural system are based on both. There are different opinions in the legal system as to how close the infringement law should be to criminal law and whether a uniform codification of administrative criminal power is necessary. [[13.00]] The most important common value in the life of a society is the order that provides the safety of everyday life, which is the basic condition of prosperity. In the absence of order and order, it is impossible to build, grow and develop a country, a community. I note only in parentheses: in the absence of order, the brave standing of foreign policy will also be impossible. It is in the national interest to have order in Hungary, a order that provides justice, creates sufficiently strict laws, and guarantees protection for everyone, and also serves prevention. The amendment to the Law is set out in Annex II to the 2012 Act. It also highlights the practical reasons behind the legislation and, when we are looking for them, we should point out that making solutions to everyday problems effective is one of the most important aspects. Such a daily problem is the situation where compliance with order itself is violated, and on which the relevant legislation is irregular. This is why the 2012 II. The law that settled this. We are now complying with fine-tuning, we are doing this on the basis of experience, and we are also respecting EU legal obligations. We are trying to satisfy society's demand for order. Order, law, compliance with the rules is a community, the country, the functioning of our institutions, ensuring the normal flow of life, i.e. development. In any case, the enforcement of the legislator's intention means that its instrument, the adaptation of the law to everyday practice, must be ensured that the principles, the maintenance of order, the principle of compliance with the law, and the protection of the members of society are guaranteed. This policy objective can be achieved by the legislator if we clearly see the causes of order and security and find appropriate means to eliminate them, such as those that are operational in practice. This is the aspect that puts legislative work in a broader context and can be traced back to all of our laws whose area of matter is linked to our entire Fundamental Law. In this broader context, it is the moral state of society that can be associated with the state of families, the quality of education and public education. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the infringement law was to introduce an efficient, fast and cost-effective system, reducing administrative burdens. The sanctioning system has been tightened and expanded, the duplication of procedures has ceased, and the original wide-ranging infringement authority system has been simplified. We have removed fundamental legal anomalies and adapted the law to European directives. The current amendments will be made in the hands of practical experience, which further strengthens the change of views that has proved appropriate since the introduction, with the aim of protecting law-abiding people. Practical experience has already demonstrated that we really need a fine tuning. KDNP intends to work to build a solidarity society, and it is important to individuals and small communities, families. We are working on the construction of a society that has strong moral and moral integrity, one on which the deterrent force of the law also works, where appropriate, in relation to infringements. We believe that man makes his decisions on the basis of his moral being, culture, and perspective, after consideration, of his own free will. These occur according to intellectual order, which depends inter alia on education, the rules to be observed, the willingness to accept them, the narrower and wider community. On the other hand, KDNP's fundamental belief is that every human being is worthy of human creation, that every human being has the right to live safely, to increase his values freely, to work for his family. The amendment of the Violation Act is also in line with all these Christian Democratic principles. You can ensure public order in an even more efficient way, as people expect. The subjective sense of security of the inhabitants of a settlement is largely determined by events in large numbers, often of low weight. Furthermore, in addition to the tightening up that voters rightly expect, it is important to have order in the area of infringement proceedings, so that we have a law with a functioning and preventive function. Dear House, As a result of the amendment of the law, the safety of people living in settlements can continue to increase on the basis of practical experience. People want to live in the most peaceful environment and live their daily lives. They want safe transport, public spaces, and they don't have to deal with the slightest disturbance. It is therefore an important principle that the law should serve prevention as effectively as possible. This implies clear rules, simple and quick procedures, effective implementation. The amendments are intended to meet and strengthen these aspects. We have also tightened the sanction system in some areas with the objectives already listed, and I stress that this is an option, because it is not punishment, but prevention. We are concerned with the enforcement of these principles with further amendments, making it clear to the public that the rules are meant to be respected. I am convinced that we are taking another step towards strengthening compliance in Hungary. A new system of infringement procedures is being established which provides for an efficient and rapid procedure for each infringement authority, and a cost-effective procedure in which the perpetrator no longer has an interest in the unjustified withdrawal of procedural acts. Harmonisation of laws requires amendments made by the directives of the European Parliament, the European Council. I am convinced that the amendment to the new law on infringements will achieve the objectives for which it was born and which the amendments that have now been tabled will make more effective and bring it into line with EU law. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the amendment of the law, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-20-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-20-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In itself, the correction of the law on infringements adopted in 2012 is not from the devil. Indeed, there are a number of points - I will address them - that are forward-looking, steps in the right direction. Of course, there are some that are questionable; of course I will also explain them. I feel that basically the steps taken in the positive direction dominate, and I must also say this to the Secretary of State, but as a leader, before I go to the specific rules, I must bring the old problem here that it is not enough to create good laws, implementation is at least as important or, in many cases, much more important. Violation laws, the facts of the offence, are, in fact, the most important areas of people's lives, and in many cases, the most annoying facts are included. I can agree with my fellow Member, Mr Firtl, on this point, but in many cases, unfortunately, law enforcement in this area is not sufficiently effective, and there should be a great deal of effort to ensure that the perpetrators are truly accountable and found. In many cases, this is also a problem for criminal offences. In the National Assembly, we have repeatedly said that even in the classification of a theft limit, the authorities strive to bring the value of the stolen property closer to the amount of the infringement, even if it is quite clear that it belongs to the category of crime, so that it is above HUF 50,000. [[13.10]] I have given several examples, too, that in cases where someone bought a bicycle, mobile phone, it could be classified, an object that was well above the limit, and could prove with an account that they had recently bought it, even in most cases - and I have seen several such decisions - the police have taken the value of these things to the neighborhood of 49 thousand forints, since there are no strict rules for the police in infringement proceedings, or the statistics of these crimes will be impaired. This is also a bad practice, because it starts a doubt in citizens that the authorities are not taking their problem seriously enough. After all, saying that an amount is not properly determined or that the damage suffered by it is not properly determined, this is also part of the circle that the authority does not deal with the harm it has suffered. Otherwise, not in depth here, of course, on the issue of implementation, but if the police could change this efficiency, we could put the statistical approach in the background, and in many cases, instead of paperwork, the police could focus on real law enforcement, we might be able to move forward in this area, so in many cases implementation is the most important. Turning to the proposal before us, I will be in line, and I will also say our positive, negative, and also our proposals that raise the questions. It's gonna be the second one right now. In Section 5 you can find a life-smelling and positive provision, which applies to the duration of the ban on driving. The proposal states that if a person surrenders or has lost his driving licence, that period should be included, so that if his driving licence is withdrawn, from when or from the date on which he is unable to use it, it is perfectly logical that it should be included in the period. I guess we don't have to do that anymore. Article 3 In the case of minors, on the one hand, it is good that the proposal envisages a suspension for a probation period of 1-6 months in the case of detention of infringements, but it must also be taken into account that the exclusion provisions, i.e. when this detention cannot be suspended, have become too mild in my opinion. Because if for the first time a minor commits a misdemeanor that could be sentenced and sentenced to detention, I agree, give him an opportunity to think. Juveniles can easily be influenced, and can easily get into bad company. In many cases, if they are in conflict with the law in the first instance and have to go before the authorities, they may in some cases have a deterrent effect in the future. In some cases. But in other cases, who has already started a criminal lifestyle, there is no reason to apply the suspension. Here, I consider the three months - which, as a rule, sets the time limit for repeating crimes, which must pass between two offences committed - to be too short a time, since the Secretary of State can imagine that if, say, a young person commits three and a half months of offences, he will be committed beyond three months, then he will not fall into this category, and I think that this is a short enough time to be able to get away with a continuous suspended sentence. Unfortunately, it can also be seen, and that is why Jobbik has supported, in some cases, the delivery of criminality for 12 years, not in these cases, of course, but we can see that there are groups of perpetrators or even families where crimes can be committed by children under the age of 14, and this is particularly true for those under the age of 18, let us say, between the ages of 14 and 18. Article 5 I would like to ask Mr State Secretary - here we understand that the concept of a public event is included in the Violation Act, with a slightly different use of words than in the Btk. I would like to ask you if there is awareness that in one case there is an open category, and in the other there is a category that can be visited. I would not quote the whole sentence now, but Mr Secretary of State will understand the question whether this is just a nuanced difference or if there was some awareness in this when you brought this proposal to Parliament. Then the 27th. § a minor but very important amendment, which concerns that an interpreter should not only be due to those who do not know the Hungarian language, but also to speech retarded, deaf and hearing-damaged Hungarian citizens, and who do not necessarily need it because of foreign language or the lack of knowledge of the Hungarian language, and this is borne by the budget, the state, this is an important addition in my opinion, and it was justified to say so here too. Then the 28th. I would like to make some criticism and we will also make a clarification proposal. The deadlines will be set here in the case of corrections and additions. Here, in the case of the authority, 30 days will be fixed to supplement and correct its decision and 3 months to request it. I think that the correction of the request, supplemental, so when someone asks the authority to acknowledge that they have made a mistake, he will see this, but he cannot amend this decision, because 30 days or 3 months have passed, this is not justified in my opinion, and we want it to be defined over a longer period of time, or, say, until the statute of limitations. This could mean that extra bureaucratic circles could be spared the authority and citizens if the authority could admit that we made a mistake, complement this decision, correct this decision, but the 3 months have passed, they can't do that, we will force more bodies to process it, or in fact the problem could be solved with that authority, but the legislation will rule that out. It would be justified to change that. Then comes the provision that the revision will be possible even if there is an infringement in the course of transfer to prison; this is also a good provision. Also, the court may hold a hearing in the context of the retrial if the perpetrator so requests; it is not possible to argue with that; it gives the court the opportunity to decide whether they wish to go into more detail and to hold this trial. If the infringement procedure is terminated because the act is a felony and began to download, to serve the punishment of the perpetrator, then it is logical, and this is 36. If this can be counted against the penalty, it is not entitled to compensation. This one, too, I think, is saying an epiphany. And the 37th. I can also welcome Section 2 which states that the authority will repay the fine already paid if the repeal takes place. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: I do, however, feel an uncertainty, a little uncertainty in the justification, who is entitled to the fine? It's a problem. You say and make it perfectly clear in the Code of Violations that the fine, on-the-spot fine, the penalty for the central sub-scheme of public finances, so it flows into the big joint, and we can learn from the justification that the Finance Act does not mention that it should belong to the municipalities, the municipal law is not entirely clear in this respect, although it contains the clause on the fine granted. I conclude from this that, in some cases, the municipalities could receive these fines. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether there has been a consultation with the municipalities, so it is expected that there will be a loss of revenue in the municipalities if we accept these rules, or if you do not know that, and so, although I would say that this is just a clarification provision, it is clear to me from the explanatory statement, from your explanatory statement, that it is not certain that this will also be clear to the municipalities. [[13.20]] However, it is important to clarify whether there will be disappointed municipalities, which, acting as appropriate, would expect these amounts, but will not receive them. In order to disrupt the operation of a public service plant, there is also the introduction of an infringement situation. This in itself will be linked to disturbance. This is not necessarily wrong in itself, and intentional careless guilt is also introduced as a fact, but anyone who demonstrates due diligence will not be the perpetrator of the violation. The test of pudding is eating. The public - interest plants may be worth trying to protect them in this circle as well. Violation of the rules on the manufacture, distribution and repair of certain weapons will also be sanctioned. This seems to be a good principle in practice. We will see how much this will actually get into the public authorities' minds in the course of its implementation, but here we will also give the opportunity to see the practice. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: With regard to the inclusion of new psychoactive substances - here the value of less than 10 grams will be an infringement - the maximum agreement can be reached on its own. I would also like to say here, Mr Secretary of State, that in many cases - and this has been confirmed by my fellow Member of the Abbot - the problem is law enforcement. Mostly in the countryside, but also for expectations, everyone knows perfectly who they are, say, dealing with drugs or other psychoactive substances, but the police are not able to act effectively. Here's our most naive attitude: the police aren't doing their job properly. In many cases, it arises that they are involved in some way; or even because, let's say, they employ certain individuals as an informant, and they believe that a small violation of the law can be tolerated by these people as they provide information to the police. I would draw the line here very carefully, because in many cases these people do more harm than they can positively show off to the police with, say, snitching or other activities. Let us not even consider that, in some cases, the police do not dare to act effectively in these matters. So I would ask Mr Secretary of State that we also pay due attention to implementation, because it is good that there will be an infringement, and it is good that we have the category of crime, but if we do not implement it properly, then we have done nothing. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group did not wish to put forward a rapporteur. So we have come to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to announce to the Honourable Parliament that Ms Ágnes Vadai has withdrawn her intention to speak. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2015-10-20-65	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, seh geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt, bezüglich des Gesetzesänderung des Gesetzes Nr. 2, Jahr 2012 über die Regelverstösse und die Verfahren zur Erfassung von Ordnungswidrigkeiten und Regelverstössen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the 2012 II. T/6625, amending Act T/6625. About the bill No. 1. The language that he hears and uses from birth, which he thinks about and gives his opinion, is part and shaper of every person's personality. The first words of each person's life are spoken in their mother tongue. However, it is not only for these seemingly sentimental reasons that it is important to use the language, but also because some of the nationalities living in Hungary do not speak any other language, so it is often possible for them to have everyday contacts, whether in private or in administrative matters, only in a minority language, from the point of view of the Hungarian authorities. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. T/6625, amending Act T/6625. The two amendments to bill No 36 which directly affect the nationalities living in Hungary are listed in the Act, as well as in the Act No 82/K. It concerns the provisions of Article 4 of the Treaty and is of a technical nature. Namely, the 36th. § (1) states that the language of the infringement proceedings is Hungarian. Because of the lack of knowledge of the Hungarian language, no one can be disadvantaged. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, you can use both orally and in writing the mother tongue of everyone, based on an international treaty published by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, or, if you do not know the Hungarian language, the other language which you are known to use. Here it is very important and I would like to point out that, on the basis of an international treaty proclaimed by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, in which case the nationality language may be used by a nationality citizen even if the person concerned is otherwise familiar with the Hungarian language. So as a nationality, you have a free election right. The 82/K. Paragraph 1 states that the costs incurred in the course of the mediation procedure are not an infringement cost, it shall be borne by the person subject to the procedure unless otherwise provided for by a different agreement or by this law. The victim shall bear the costs incurred in his or her own interests, unless the victim and the person subject to the proceedings agree otherwise. However, paragraph 2 of this section states that the State bears the costs incurred in connection with the fact that the person subject to the procedure or the victim is hearing impaired, speech retarded, blind, does not know the Hungarian language, or used his or her regional or minority language during the procedure. This paragraph has already been quoted by Dr. Gábor Staudt, but he politely left me the last clause of this - that he used his regional or minority language during the procedure. Thank you. The current amendment of the law replaces the text of the regional or minority language of the circle with the text of the ethnic language of the circle, or the text of the minority or regional language of the time. With these amendments, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities rather than previous regional or minority definitions. Using the concept of a new language of nationality according to law for the sake of uniform use of terms, which we fully agree with on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The importance of the language of nationality, the use of the mother tongue, is also shown by the fact that the Council of Europe established a European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages in Strasbourg on 5 November 1992, which recognises that, in addition to the official language of the State in question, the use of the mother tongue of nationalities in that country should not only be tolerated but should be facilitated and encouraged, both in private life and public life, orally and in writing. Hungary ratified the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages on 26 April 1995 and entered into force on 1 March 1998, extending it as a recognised language to German, Croatian, Romanian, Serbian, Slovenian and Slovak. [[13.30]] Paragraph 1 states that the language of the infringement procedure is Hungarian. Because of the lack of knowledge of the Hungarian language, no one can be disadvantaged. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, you can use both orally and in writing the mother tongue of everyone, based on an international treaty published by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, or, if you do not know the Hungarian language, the other language which you are known to use. Here it is very important and I would like to point out that, on the basis of an international treaty proclaimed by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, in which case the nationality language may be used by a nationality citizen even if the person concerned is otherwise familiar with the Hungarian language. So as a nationality, you have a free election right. The 82/K. Paragraph 1 states that the costs incurred in the course of the mediation procedure are not an infringement cost, it shall be borne by the person subject to the procedure unless otherwise provided for by a different agreement or by this law. The victim shall bear the costs incurred in his or her own interests, unless the victim and the person subject to the proceedings agree otherwise. However, paragraph 2 of this section states that the State bears the costs incurred in connection with the fact that the person subject to the procedure or the victim is hearing impaired, speech retarded, blind, does not know the Hungarian language, or used his or her regional or minority language during the procedure. This paragraph has already been quoted by Dr. Gábor Staudt, but he politely left me the last clause of this - that he used his regional or minority language during the procedure. Thank you. The current amendment of the law replaces the text of the regional or minority language of the circle with the text of the ethnic language of the circle, or the text of the minority or regional language of the time. With these amendments, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities rather than previous regional or minority definitions. Using the concept of a new language of nationality according to law for the sake of uniform use of terms, which we fully agree with on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The importance of the language of nationality, the use of the mother tongue, is also shown by the fact that the Council of Europe established a European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages in Strasbourg on 5 November 1992, which recognises that, in addition to the official language of the State in question, the use of the mother tongue of nationalities in that country should not only be tolerated but should be facilitated and encouraged, both in private life and public life, orally and in writing. Hungary ratified the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages on 26 April 1995 and entered into force on 1 March 1998, extending it as a recognised language to German, Croatian, Romanian, Serbian, Slovenian and Slovak. (13.30) In accordance with this, the teaching of nationality languages is carried out in national minority education institutions, and part of this is the provision of tools to non-nationals living in the area of ethnic language users, so that they can learn the language of national minorities if they wish. In addition, one of the key points in the use of the language of nationalities is to ensure the use of nationality in administrative procedures and in the administration of justice. With this in mind, Hungary has agreed to join the language charter that the courts will not consider it an obstacle to the normal course of the justice system if a member of a Hungarian national minority, either in criminal proceedings or in civil proceedings, or in administrative cases or in proceedings, will appeal to the authorities or to the court to use his mother tongue during the proceedings. However, it should not only be understood that the party to the proceedings is allowed to speak in a language of nationality, but that they provide translation and interpretation services and, where appropriate, allow the issue or submission of documents in the language of nationality. The possible use of translations and interpreters should not entail additional costs for the nationality party, the costs of which are borne by the State. With this legislation, the Hungarian State ensures compliance with the requirements laid down in the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, which we welcome from the nationalities living in Hungary. Personally, I would be the happiest, but I suppose I can say on behalf of all ethnic residents living in Hungary that we would be happiest if we did not have to use nationality languages at all in criminal proceedings, infringement proceedings, judicial and public authorities, because neither by fault nor by nationality would we be involved in these procedures. But we are human, so obviously this type of case and procedure will affect us, including nationalities, and will affect us occasionally. Moreover, those involved in these matters are in a sharp, difficult situation, so it is particularly important that their interests and rights are not hindered by language barriers. The topicality of the issue of rights and application of the mother tongue as a minority language is also confirmed by the fact that, just five days ago, on the last Thursday of the week, we had the opportunity to meet here in Parliament and hold a meeting with the members of the Committee on the Mother tongue of the Council of Europe. At the meeting, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, we took a broad look at the situation of the application of the contents of the language charter in Hungary, on which the following statements can be made in summary and in broad terms. On the one hand, the majority of Hungarian legislation complies with the legal requirements and requirements of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. On the other hand, there are still significant problems and difficulties in the application of the law in official procedures, in the practical enforcement of nationality rights, in several areas. Let me refer you back to the non-specific case, though we are not many of us, some of you were involved, when a few months ago I told you in Parliament about the birth certificate for more than ten minutes and explained what four-year Calvary I had to go through to get my child's birth certificate, even though it is legally entitled to do so. In English and clearly: a significant proportion of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary still exist legally on paper, but in practice they are not or can only be partially exercised and enforced. Thirdly, despite all these legal and procedural problems, we were pleased to inform the mother tongue commission of the Council of Europe that Hungarian politics, the Hungarian Parliament, have taken very significant positive steps over the past three years in order to recognise the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, in practice, with tangible evidence of, inter alia, the presence of the 2015-16 Central Budget Act or, in the Hungarian Parliament, the presence of national minority advocates. In view of this and on the basis of this, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary II of 2012 on infringements, infringement procedures and the system of registration of infringements. T/6625, amending Act T/6625. It agrees with and supports its adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2015-10-20-66	I thank the speaker, Mr Ritter, for his speech. Dear Parliament, As no one has indicated in writing their intention to speak, I would like to ask my fellow Members whether they would like to speak in the context of our item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members and Imre Ritter for their contributions to the debate. It was evident from all the comments that overall they saw, at least this is how I put it in my mind, that the adoption of the Violent Law also contributed to the fact that people in Hungary live more safely than they did five years ago. As regards the individual representatives' contributions, Mr Péter Ágh supported the proposal on behalf of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your support. I also thank Mrs Márta Demeter for her contribution, who started by recalling the 2011 parliamentary debate and, in connection with that bill, said her criticisms at that time and which she has maintained now, but I am pleased that she has not only formulated the criticism, but also expressed the positive virtues of the proposal that has just been tabled. I ask you to support this proposal. On behalf of the KDNP, Mr Mátyás Firtl said that this proposal also contributes to improving public security and that it can also achieve the goal of strengthening Hungary's compliance with the law with the adoption of this proposal. I think that's how he put it. Thank you very much for your support. On behalf of Mr Staudt Gábor, I would like to say that he said that the authorities do not manage the value of the crime in place. I refuse. I don't think I know that there is such consideration, and it is set to 49 900 forints, so that it is not a crime, but a violation, so that it does not spoil the statistics. I refuse to make that remark. As regards the question raised about the concept of a public event, this regulation has been the case since 2012, and this is not a new wording, which you will find in the current proposal. [[13.40]] That's 39. As regards its question concerning §8, namely, whether there has been consultation with the local government associations, the municipalities, I would like to say that there has been consultation. The law on the municipalities of Hungary sets out exactly what revenue the municipalities can obtain in Hungarian: the fine imposed in the procedures under the new law no longer goes to the municipalities, which I would like to answer your question. The question was whether the municipalities were disappointed: I trust that there are no disappointed municipalities in Hungary in this respect, and that there are no other disappointed municipalities in Hungary, honourable Member. As far as your drug-related wording is concerned, namely that the police do not act effectively enough, they do not dare to act or do not want to act, although they know who the perpetrators are, I would like to say the following. In my reply to Mr János Volner's comment on corruption before today's agenda, I drew the Member's attention to the 300th penalty code. §2 of the Act, the obligation of the official laid down in it, which also applies to the Member of Parliament. So if you have any specific knowledge of such a crime, then report it, Congressman. I believe that it is in the interests of you and of the Hungarian Parliament, too, that no one, but especially officials, or bodies whose role is law enforcement, should not commit, should not assist or cooperate. So if you are aware of this, you must fulfil your obligations as representatives, because otherwise, if you do not know about this, then I must reject this accusation, because I think that the Hungarian law enforcement agencies are acting in their best interests and are pursuing the crime they have learned. Thank you for Imre Ritter's voice as a minority advocate. Thank you for your support, thank you for what you have said about your agreement with the proposal and your support. I hope that your contribution will also show that this bill also represents a significant step forward in the context of what you have set out. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much once again for the comments that have been made, and I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law amending certain law enforcement laws for the purpose of fulfilling EU obligations and for other purposes until closure. The Government's submission is T/6634. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to make the activities of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies more effective and to bring them into line with recent changes in EU legislation and to create the legal conditions for the law enforcement authorities in Hungary to have access to the data stored in the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol)'s wanted system. The amendments are in line with EU legislation and contribute significantly to the effective and effective activities of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies, as well as to the maintenance of Hungary's legal order and public security. Most of the amendments to the bill clarify the text of the law concerned in order to ensure more effective and effective international cooperation between domestic law enforcement bodies with counterparts from EU Member States carrying out similar tasks. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill complements the APB. The current legislation does not allow the authority to carry out specific procedural acts during the wanted procedure in cases where the APB is not ordered in the context of an ongoing prosecution or infringement procedure. This deficiency significantly hampers the effective and effective monitoring of missing persons wanted activities. The necessary procedural acts or types of measures are set out in the bill on the basis of the administrative procedure, the infringement procedure and a similar institution in criminal proceedings. In doing so, it shall provide the authority with the opportunity to carry out the hearing of witnesses, the on-the-spot inspection, the seizure of material evidence and the search for experts. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The further important objective of this amendment is to review and extend the criminal category of organised crime. In the light of recent amendments to the Criminal Code, these amendments include, inter alia, theft, fraud, embezzlement, economic fraud, forced labour in connection with trafficking in human beings, fence, persistence, promotion of prostitution, child pornography, and, even if committed on its own, certain crimes against the system of border controls established at the state border. The amendment also includes minor amendments to the Asylum Act in order to allow the asylum authority to communicate electronically with the courts in the case of asylum seekers without having access to paper-based procedures. The amendment envisages imposing training, qualification and further training requirements for members of the armed security guard. As a result, the qualification of the members of the armed security guard, which is organised in the National Training Note, will be equivalent to the official examination currently required as a condition of application of the law. Dear Parliament, Therefore, following the entry into force of the amendment of the law, the establishment of an armed security guard will no longer be an essential condition for the completion of an official examination, as this will be triggered by the acquisition of appropriate professional qualifications. The amendment includes amendments to the law on fire protection, technical rescue and fire department. The aim is to redefine the concept of fire-fighting products. As a result of the amendment, construction products would not fall within the definition of fire-fighting products. The amendment also clarifies the provisions in force concerning the preparation of fire protection regulations and those who are subject to fire protection training. In the context of this amendment, the Law on Road Transport will also be amended. This is necessary in order to enable the police, operating technical means to facilitate the identification of the registration numbers, the traffic count, the detection of the crossing of the closing line and the monitoring of the use of the safety-belt to carry out their activities in an orderly manner, agreed with national road operators. The bill before you facilitates the effective and effective functioning of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies and contributes to the maintenance of Hungary's legal order and public security. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support, negotiate and adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-20-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The bill before us amends individual law enforcement laws in order to comply with our EU obligations. The proposal submitted by the Minister of the Interior contains amendments to 16 laws. One of the aims of the amendment is to amend the legislation necessary for the application of the Interpol FIND system in Hungary, so that the international database of lost and stolen passports is directly accessible to the Hungarian police during border control. [[13.50]] Given that access to the Eurocard system can be achieved, it is necessary to amend the law on cooperation and exchange of information within the European Union's law enforcement information system and the International Criminal Police Organisation. With effect from 1 February 2015, the Siren Manual will be amended, and in this context centrally new codes and required measures have been introduced under the second generation Schengen information system together with the relevant code table amendment. It is therefore also necessary to amend the law on travel abroad and the road transport register. The amendment to the Law on the APB and on the search and identification of persons and things includes a number of additional rules in addition to technical clarifications. This amendment limits the right of the data subject to information, the exercise of which would in some cases be in the interest of national security or law enforcement. The supplement to the APB therefore sets out the possible grounds for refusing to provide information to the person concerned, while also laying down legal guarantees excluding the possibility of arbitrary application of the law. There is currently no possibility of effective enforcement of procedural acts in the wanted procedures for the search for missing persons. On the basis of the amendment of the law, the authorities may carry out the necessary procedural actions in all circling procedures. In the light of the recent amendment of the Criminal Code, the proposal clarifies the scope of the legal acts that constitute a criminal offence related to organised crime. The primary objective of the amendment to the Law on Armed Security Guard, Nature Conservation and Field Guard Service is to ensure that the examination currently required for armed security guards as a condition of employment can be replaced by the professional qualifications specified for armed security guards in the National Training Note. Following the entry into force of the amendment of the law, the establishment of an armed security guard will no longer be an essential condition for the examination currently in force, as this will also be triggered by the acquisition of an appropriate OKJ qualification. The amendment also declares, in the same way as in the law on the police, the warranty of the person carrying out the inspection of clothing as required by the proceedings of the same sex as the person concerned. It has also become necessary to supplement the Asylum Act accordingly, given that it is necessary to ensure that requests for judicial review submitted in the course of a cross-border procedure and the corresponding documents can only be forwarded electronically by the asylum authority to the determining courts, thereby accelerating the assessment of applications and simplifying the procedure. The proposal amends the law on fire protection, technical rescue and fire brigades, which aims to redefine the turnover of fire-fighting products in order to ensure that construction products do not fall within the definition of fire-fighting products. The amendment clarifies the provisions in force concerning the preparation of fire protection regulations and the scope of persons or service subject to fire protection qualifications. By installing 365 fixed-planted complex traffic control points, the National Police Headquarters would like to ensure that road traffic control and traffic control tasks are carried out more effectively. The text of the Road Transport Act should be amended accordingly for technical improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, It can be seen that Hungarian law enforcement bodies cooperate closely with the EU partner institutions in the areas listed and continuously develop their technology and cooperation systems in compliance with their EU obligations. This bill contains the necessary amendments to these law enforcement laws in order to comply with EU requirements. I urge you to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]]
u2015-10-20-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The bill before us also shows that we can talk about a perfectly clear standard salad law, and otherwise this package of proposals contains a number of unlinked amendments. There is only one thing linking them, that each contains a modification of law enforcement laws within the remit of BM. The Secretary of State has highlighted certain positives, such as criminal cooperation, cooperation with Interpol, the SIS system; these are all very positive things. Basically, as it is clear from the title of the law, the amendments required by the law to fulfil the obligations of the European Union would be completely fine, but the amendments to the EU and for other purposes are already a big question, and here we can see that things have been thrown together in this bill that we cannot see any connection in the field. I would like to highlight a few specific points about the law. The proposal provides the legal basis for the construction and operation of complex traffic control points, which will also be able to verify compliance with the provisions on registration numbers, traffic counting, crossing the closing line and the use of the safety-belt. According to the proposal, the builder will be the police and the road operator will operate on the basis of an agreement with the police. As I mentioned, the proposal ensures the domestic application of the Interpol database. The bill also amends a few provisions in the Fire Control Act, such as the construction product will no longer be considered as a fire-fighting product at all in the future. The proposal sets out in a more circumstantial way how companies should ensure that their fire regulations are enforced, as compared to the existing legislation, how many persons with fire protection qualifications should be employed. According to the author, the rules relieve the burden on businesses. The Fire Control Act allows separate legislation to lay down rules for the use of fire protection in residential and recreational units. The proposal states that tests to demonstrate compliance with fire protection requirements may only be carried out with an accredited organisation. The installation of fire alarm and fire extinguishing equipment will be subject to authorisation, and the proposal also makes it clear that the professional disaster protection body is not exercising management and control powers over the fire-fighting organisations of the Hungarian Defence Agency, which are part of the fire-fighting facilities. Also, the law contains amendments to the Law on Armed Security. The current rules of this will require the performance of armed security guard duties in order to take a special examination. In the future, as many have pointed out, there will be a OKJ armed security guard's qualification to replace the current exam. The proposal provides for the introduction of a system of training for armed security guards and for the screening of clothing to be carried out only by persons of the same sex. [[14.00]] Here, with regard to the OKJ qualification, the question arises whether it is not someone's business interest to do so, how will this be eliminated, since unfortunately we have seen some sad examples over the past five years, which have been almost six years. So I think there are still questions about the implementation of this. In addition, the bill even amends the APB Act, in this context the info law allows data subjects to be informed of the handling of their records under the main rule. However, it is proposed that information on the transfer of data may be refused if it has been indicated by the recipient of the data or if the information is in violation of law enforcement or national security interests. The absence of information shall be indicated. Also, the APB contains a missing persons wanted provision, but essentially no substantive procedural action can be conducted properly on the basis of them. The proposal replaces this serious deficiency by calling for the relevant provisions of the Act on Administrative Procedure. The proposal provides for the possibility of polygraphing a person who has been interviewed as a witness if he agrees to do so in writing. To sum up, the provisions ensuring cooperation with Interpol and ensuring the application of the Schengen system are explicitly welcome. The question is whose business the training of armed security guards and the system of further training to be introduced will be, as I have already mentioned and asked how this will be implemented. For the undertakings concerned, the amendments to the Fire Control Act contained in this proposal may have a significant impact. The requirement to carry out inspections with accredited organisations and the obligation to install fire alarms and fire alarms seems to be a first logical regulation, but the impact on the economic life of changes to the fire regulations, the employment of fire protection professionals and construction products is low and raises questions on the basis of the text. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Furthermore, there is a question as to the extent to which the new provision of the APB on refusal of information is acceptable for the right to self-determination of information. The fact that missing persons are actually wanted to work is certainly to be welcomed. However, it is questionable whether, as in criminal proceedings, the possibility of polygraphing witnesses is justified. So, overall, the MSZP welcomes the legislative provisions on Interpol and the application of the Schengen information system that help them, but of course we reject the fact that once again a so-called salad law containing a lot of things has been submitted to Parliament. In the law on basically criminal cooperation, several elements of the Fire Protection Act, but even the amendment of the law on the basis of the training of armed security guards and the compulsory training of armed security guards, were crammed into it. In the case of these latter amendments, it is not clear who will benefit from these amendments. So it is clear that so far and no longer can we support the practice of submitting salad laws. The fact that the proposal contains welcome elements is also a fact that there are still a lot of questions. So in this current form, we cannot support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-20-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, on behalf of the Parliament as a whole, welcome to the István Dobó High School in Eger and the students and educators of Sándor Kisfaludy High School in Sümeg. I'm glad you're here. We will continue our work with a speech from the lead speaker. Mr Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker for the KDNP Group, is next. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-75	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted by the Government proposes amendments to certain law enforcement laws necessary and for other purposes in order to comply with EU obligations. Some of the amendments are technical in nature and serve to comply with EU regulatory procedures. A number of people have already said before me that, for example, the SIRENE Manual was amended with effect from 1 February 2015 and in this context in the second generation Schengen information system - SIS II. - centrally new codes, the required measures have been introduced in conjunction with the relevant code table amendment, and it is therefore necessary to provide for the application of Article XII of 1998 on travel abroad. Act 1 and Act LXXXIV of 1999 on the Road Transport Register amendment of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Imre Vas has been going through the points that I do not want to explain in detail here, but one of them specifically deals with the implementation of the Interpol FIND system in Hungary, and I would like to share some thoughts about this system with my fellow Members. This is an online application whereby Member States' criminal and border police personnel or on-call personnel can directly access the files of three key Interpol wanted modules, personnel wanted, lost, stolen travel documents, SLTD and stolen vehicles. Currently, only the selected NEBEK personnel have access to Interpol BOOKs at home. In order to facilitate the effectiveness of domestic and international law enforcement and to better detect crimes and to meet the European Union's expectations, authorised personnel should have direct access to the Interpol FIND system wanted file. Interpol, recognising the changing needs of Member States, can make it possible to extend the end-points of defined Interpol circling registers by providing a special online application. The Interpol FIND system will be accessed by entities with access rights through Robocsar, and access rights will be granted to those bodies and persons who have access to the Hungarian wanted system or the border control registration system. Ladies and gentlemen, The APB has already been mentioned, the Criminal Code has already been mentioned, so I will not discuss this in detail. They also mentioned the armed security guard, which I really think is important, that we properly regulate the law on armed security guards and field patrols, because it has a decisive influence on the existence of professional qualifications. In the same way, the 2007 Asylum Act has been properly supplemented, as this has become very necessary today. Fire control must indeed be addressed, but details of this need to be further developed, but it is also necessary to adapt the relevant provisions in an appropriate way. Road traffic control, of course, has been mentioned. At the end of my comment, I would like to briefly mention, as a member of the Police Committee, that it is very important that the body created to perform the law enforcement tasks should be entitled, and once again, to have direct access to the automated system from Interpol's register, and to do so the legal authority should be given. It is therefore justified to put it into law. [[In the notary seat Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced by István Ikotity.]] In addition to the emergence of certain forms of cross-border organised crime, drugs, human trafficking, the promotion of illegal migration and the strengthening of cybercrime, barbaric terrorism, represented by the Islamic State, poses a public security challenge, both Europe and Hungary and the world, which requires a united, coordinated effort from all of us, the European law enforcement agencies. Given that the members of these organised criminal circles and the sympathizers of the Islamic State are characterised by a high degree of mobility, it is imperative that they are identified in a timely manner and that passenger traffic in the Schengen area and Europe be monitored more consistently and that the national legislative background is strengthened and made more transparent. [[14.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of my comment, I would just like to confirm that access to the Interpol FIND system must be ensured in an appropriate manner, and that appropriate regulation, as in the law of the police, should be laid down in the relevant paragraph. The law on the police is 91.K. As a result of its designation in §2 of the Code, the police are entitled to compare the documents presented by the third-country national crossing the border during border checks with the data contained in that register. In view of the fact that the Police Act also lays down the requirements for compliance with the European Union's obligation set out in the Council Common Position of 24 January 2005 on the exchange of certain data with Interpol, the Union standard in question should also be reflected in the legislative harmonisation clause of the Act. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendments, to which we would expect the support of the opposition representative before me, are suitable to protect our country and the European Union from illegal economic immigration and related criminals. In view of what has been said, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I am proposing the adoption of the bill, and I would like to support it and ask my fellow Member for support in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-20-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next lead speaker is Congressman Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of Jobbik. Before you begin your main speech, on behalf of the Parliament, may I also welcome Mr István Ikotity, notary, on the occasion of performing his duties as notary for the first time. We wish him good work and good nervous system. Now it's Congressman Staudt's turn. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-77	Thank you, Mr. President. We have another legislative package ahead of us, many of which are also eligible. What my fellow Member Firtl said in his last words that access to the Interpol database is an important thing in order to protect Hungary, I agree with that, so it is an eligible point. This access is particularly important in today's world, when, unfortunately, borders have become more interoperable than they should, and the Schengen borders have become more interoperable than they should be, indeed, access has legitimacy. There's no problem with that. However, I would like to highlight from the proposal some points, as I did in the previous amendment of the law, in which some questions were raised, whether the question mark was to make a future government decree, or the provisions that will be included in it, which we do not see now, or also some problematic points in practical implementation. I would like to start by changing the provisions on fire control in order. This is also a passage - and I think here in the case of existing buildings, in some cases, the preparation of mandatory fire protection regulations for commercial accommodation and, if I remember correctly, above a certain number of jobs, was defined, which may seem to be a forward-looking proposal. If we only put our ideas in Parliament, then we can say in any case what kind of damage a fire code can do, so how good it is to have one. However, I am not sure that the definition of this number of employees of five has been drawn in the right place, because in many cases these regulations are rather formal, and I have also seen and experienced - personal experience, because it is also mandatory for condominiums - how important money is often requested for a few pages of documents by those who make it. So we do not want this to be an additional administrative burden, although it does not increase the level of security for these various host accommodations or for the various employers, but we are imposing a new burden on them. I consider the five-person definition to be thoughtful here, and it is not certain that, when five people are applied, such a detailed regulation is sufficiently effective in itself, and, of course, it is not the objectives set, but the achievement of what is questionable to me. However, it is eligible to continue to take command of the fire brigades of the military out of the hands of disaster control. So it's not a bad thing in itself that what's in the defense should be in the defense, and there should be control and command. Another question - I always tell you - is the volunteer fire department. This is not coming to the defence, of course, but I would expect further support for voluntary fire brigades, and since the whole system has already come up here, and I know that the government has taken some steps in this direction, but if we look at the Austrian or German example - and here the Austrian example in particular - then there is a much greater percentage of people involved in voluntary firefighting activities, and otherwise in large cities, cities of up to 50-60 thousand people or up to that size, there is only voluntary fire fighting. This is not a 100 percent issue, but I will take this opportunity to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that it is still possible to widen this circle in the future. In the case of armed security guards, the ability to pass the test in the case of an appropriate qualification is an area where everything will be decided in the government decree or in the ministerial decree. By the way, I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, that, until we see the Ministerial Regulation, we do not know that this really means an facilitation, that it will indeed mean a more practical training course, or that training requirements will be laid down, and that companies will be able to do so, or that these requirements will be imposed on firms that may be able to realise additional revenue from this, but the practical benefits will be limited. Unfortunately, I can imagine both. So, to say the least, from giving the Minister a blank warrant, I'm not going to calm down on my own. Here you can find an addition to the screening of clothing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, in the case of field guards, this will be interestingly feasible. I understand the aim and intention, but I have not met many female field guards, but unfortunately, among tree thieves, for example, the number of ladies has also increased recently, according to local experience. So here, where appropriate - and not only in the case of tree thieves, but also in the case of other checks of field guards - it may arise that if, say, a woman is the perpetrator, and there is no lady field guard among field guards, then how will the screening take place here. This may also be a good - looking rule, but there will be difficulties in implementing it. I would like to point out one more thing: this is Article 37. § 3, amendments on disaster management. Here we can see that they are creating the possibility or the proposal would create the possibility for a professional disaster management body to employ workers. When you read it, it's easy to overlook it, but there's a fear - and we've heard it from the chimney sweeping trade unions in particular - that chimney sweeps might be recruited into disaster management. We don't know if that's gonna happen, but the profession has a fear, and that's what this amendment looks like. [[14.20]] I would ask the Secretary of State - and I would expect an honest answer - that this is the preparation of this, i.e. the integration of chimney sweep services into disaster management, or you have thought of something else when you create the possibility of employing workers for disaster protection. So what is the background to this, what is the regulation, or, more precisely, let us reassure or distress the chimney sweeping trade unions, who have, by the way, lodged several complaints on this issue, and their concerns about their future have also been raised in the press. These are my questions to the Secretary of State. I trust that we will be able to answer these questions, and, by the way, if I have the word and the two proposals, the previous and this proposal are related, then I would ask Mr Secretary of State to give me substantive answers that mean "a" or "b" from our point of view, and we should be able to consider it, because I feel that this has not always been possible in the previous proposal. We are pleased that we should, of course, press charges if we experience a problem. Obviously, this can be said here too in many cases, but it is precisely that the right to complain has been taken away in cases where the victim is not the complainant, so let's say, in the case of Members of Parliament, this is immediately a living law. So, in vain, as an official, if the police do not act properly, it is very difficult, and even impossible, to complain that, let us say, at least someone is reviewing the decision of the police, so it is very difficult, Mr Secretary of State. It is also difficult, and you can see that if there is a suspicion on something, even in the case of drugs, that, say, everyone in a local community knows who the distributors are, the only thing that can be brought to the attention of the police is that it is very easy to reject these complaints, and then it is difficult to get them. So, based on these experiences, we would expect a positive or negative response from the Secretary of State on these issues, too. At best, we're not gonna like it, believe me, it's better than not getting the right answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches and representatives' contributions. I don't want to inspire anyone, I just want to make it a fact. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. In this case, as no further speeches have been made, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions during the general debate. Thank you, Mr Vas Imre, who spoke on behalf of the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance in the debate and addressed the virtues, merits and importance of the proposal, and thank you for your support for this proposal. Thank you, too, for the thoughts of Congresswoman Márta Demeter, in particular for the thoughts she has made by listing the virtues of the proposal. We pay particular attention to these, but we also pay attention to the proposals that included criticism. He also asked me a question about armed security guards. In this regard, I would like to say that the amendment of legislation, so that this proposal, which is before us now, is in the interest of armed security guards, is in order to enable them to learn the changes resulting from the amendment both in theory and in practice, so this legislative intention is absolutely in the interest of armed security guards. Please consider whether you can support yourself or the MSZP fraction. Mr Firtl expressed his support for the proposal from the KDNP fraction, which I thank you very much for. I also thank Mr Staudt Gábor for his contribution from the Jobbik faction, who also mentioned the importance of supporting the voluntary fire department in his contribution. I would like to say that we, too, consider it very important and thank you here in this House for the work of voluntary firefighters in the current debate. We ourselves know the experiences and practices of Austria and Germany. There is a different system than we do, but I would like to say in any case that the government appreciates and supports the work of voluntary fire brigades, as this also contributes to making people feel safer. As regards your feedback on the previous debate, I would like to say that it has been said several times in Parliament over the five and a half years since the Jobbik faction has been in Parliament, a request or a notification that there is knowledge of different crimes. Every time I offered my fellow Members that I would bring them together with the competent police officer or with the heads of the National Defence Service and give them the necessary information. It is in our common interest that offenders, lawbreakers, criminals are caught by the competent authorities. I'm sorry you didn't take that opportunity. We will continue to offer you this, and if you are aware of this, please do so. As regards your question on chimney sweeping, honourable Member, I would like to say that what you have read in the proposal is formulated in this proposal, so I would ask you to evaluate this proposal accordingly so that you can support it or not. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would like to thank the Members once again for their support, their attitude and their contribution to the general debate. I hope that the adoption of this law will also contribute to making Hungary, the Hungarian people, safer. I therefore call for your vote to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-20-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The Government's submission is T/6630. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, whom I welcome on the occasion of his first referral. I wish him a good nervous system, all the best for his work. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-81	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I thank you very much for your good wishes, and I wish Members and members of the government a lot of the same for their work. Honourable Members, The bill before you is the 20th of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank. amends law in two points, which, according to the government, can make a significant contribution to optimising the operation of the bank. Under the provisions of the Hungarian Development Bank Act, the exposure of the Hungarian Development Bank to a client or group of clients that are not credit institutions should not exceed 45% of the own funds of the specialized credit institution. This is a perfectly understandable and important condition that guarantees the prudent operation of the MFB. The aim of the provision is that if a company is in practice intertwined with another company, it should treat them as essentially a group of customers when lending the Hungarian Development Bank, as they constitute a combined risk to the bank. The current legislative proposal is the European Union's 57513. It further clarifies and rationalises the legislation on the Hungarian Development Bank in the light of its regulation. According to the amendment, the group of clients that constitute a single risk factor solely in view of their relationship with Magyar Development Bank Zrt. would not qualify as a group of customers in the future. In practice, this means that if the Hungarian Development Bank with the role of trustee is the owner of, for example, an energy business, and at the same time the owner of, say, a hotel, then the financial company should not have to treat these companies as a group of customers, since in fact there is no concentration at all. These entities produce a completely separate and independent operation, both in terms of their task and in terms of their management and their management. [[14.30]] If there is a positive or negative change in the management and business policy of one of the interests of the Hungarian Development Bank, it will in no way affect the other interest of the Hungarian Development Bank, there is no risk community in these companies, so this provision needs to be amended. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Now allow me to talk about another aspect of the amendment of the Hungarian Development Bank Act. As you know, the Government has decided that the Hungarian Development Bank has been given an important role as an implementing organisation in managing the reimbursable resources of the EU programming cycle 2014-2020. The technical proposal relates to the fulfilment of this task, since, using the experience of the previous cycle, Hungary has been able to set up a mechanism for allocating the resources to be recovered from Széchenyi 2020 in a favourable manner, so that the risk of the allocated resources can be taken from the EU programme account. This is an important step forward, as the European Union's aim is to provide to companies in less economically developed areas with more difficult market resources, where business risk is already higher than in other regions of the country. Since the losses resulting from the business risk of EU aid mediated by the Hungarian Development Bank reduce the EU envelope and not the effectiveness of the MFB, it is appropriate to assign a zero-percent risk weight on the part of the Development Bank to this type of financing in the Act. In the light of what has been said, I ask the Honourable Parliament to ensure its support for the adoption of the bill-modifying motion. Mr President, Honourable Parliament, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Member Tamás László. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/6630. The aim of the bill is XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. Amendment of Law No 1. MFB Zrt. a credit institution wholly owned by the Hungarian State, its legal status, its tasks and scope of activity are set out in Section XX of 2001; It is determined by law and by the statutes and by the strategy approved by the Government. Its core task is to provide development loans that are favourable to domestic businesses, to support the state's long-term economic development objectives, to involve money market resources, and to channel EU funds and support. MFB Zrt. plays an active role in the development of the Hungarian economy. In 2014, the amount of new loans amounted to HUF 173 billion. The volume of bad and dubious loans decreased by 7 percent. The bank's capital adequacy ratio was 23 per cent as at 30 June 2015, which is outstanding in the Hungarian banking system. In order to maintain this capital adequacy ratio, it is necessary and justified to amend the MFB Act. If it is financed from EU funds, MFB Zrt. has an exposure of around HUF 750 billion. the bank's capital adequacy ratio would fall below 13 per cent. Therefore, the amendment allows MFB Zrt. For its specific status and related tasks, assign a zero-percent risk weight to exposures financed from Union funds. The proposal also states that MFB Zrt. for the purposes of Article 4 (1) (39) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. In the course of its operation, the group of clients that would constitute a single risk factor solely in view of their relationship with MFB Zrt. does not constitute a group of clients. The purpose of the legal harmonisation of the Union Regulation is to ensure that the sum of the combined exposure value of a group of clients vis-à-vis members of a non-credit institution should not exceed MFB Zrt. 45% of its own funds. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill, in view of the above, that MFB Zrt. its lending and grant intermediary activities can continue to operate smoothly and optimally, thereby supporting the state's long-term economic development objectives and the involvement of its financial market resources. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-20-84	Thank you very much. The next keynote speaker is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr János Volner, who is not currently in the room. From the LMP Group, I see that there is no one present. Accordingly, as there is a notary of the KDNP and also of the LMP, I will ask if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Attila Mesterházy asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Mr Secretary of State has analysed this bill for a long time, but before the debate starts - and perhaps the other Members will have some time to come into the Chamber and to have a debate on content - let me draw your attention to one thing, Mr Secretary. I have not seen such a law amendment, where the general justification is as follows: the purpose of the bill is to amend the Xy Act on the Hungarian Development Bank Company, and the detailed justification is to raise 6 lines of the text itself. I don't know if you have people who have done this before, but if they have, they have given it to them because it is the humiliation of Parliament, so it is a frivolous thing. The content debate will certainly take place here in the next period, but please respect this House by adding at least some general justification and detailed justification that seems to be making an effort to explain why they want to make such an amendment. This is unacceptable, in this form, as a justification, otherwise the housekeeping should have thrown back this proposal, because it is the humiliation of Members and the House. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-20-86	Thank you very much. I also apologise to the Honourable Parliament for making a mistake, because I have left out the lead speaker of the MSZP, Mr László Szakács. I'll follow you this way, I'm sorry; we'll settle this in-house. Mr. Congressman, it's up to you as a keynote speaker.
u2015-10-20-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope that there will never be any more trouble, but in order to get to the draft law, this is a sequel series that comes before us in connection with the Hungarian Development Bank. I do not want to continue last night's debate, but it should be noted here that if the television broadcasts Parliament's meetings, we could say that it is a telecomic, because within the MFB and the MFB, Minister János Lázár has his own overpower and he has put it on the MFB - how should I put it? - in fact, the scope of action, which also sweeps the boundaries of irrationality, either to the Minister or to the Hungarian Development Bank, which is now slowly forming and expanding in the context of the fourth bill, we must say in this respect that we do not think this is good at all. But let's see exactly what we're talking about. I'm trying to remember a little bit. First, the last utility company, which was independent of this company, the First National Utility Service Company, was swallowed with the Hungarian Development Bank, and then KAF Zrt. was swallowed with the Hungarian Development Bank, and then we discussed an amendment on the basis of which, if the Hungarian Development Bank needs any resources, it can take credit for it, and if any company, company, or portfolio would otherwise be sought by the Prime Minister's Office or the Hungarian State through the Prime Minister's Office, the Hungarian Development Bank will be the instrument of this. [[14.40]] That would not be a problem; the problem is that, in such a way that we do not have to bring these proposals before this House, but simply with the decree of Minister János Lázár, he points out that, according to the bill, he is asking us to take over certain companies, according to our position. I think, by the way, that the scope that has already gone beyond irrationality, which is certainly beyond democracy, and which also provides for reasonable management and control, is being extended even further in the package of proposals. Dear Secretary of State, If a municipality wants to borrow in Hungary today, they will look at how creditworthy the companies owned by the municipality are, how much credit they have, how much income they have and how much they will treat as one unit; because the municipality is in this position, they know the tax power parities, they know how to obtain credit, and they know the conditions under which they would lend it. I believe that if this has sometimes been a problem, and if it has often caused a lot of trouble, we must also acknowledge that they are likely to have done the right thing when solvency has been properly adjusted either in a municipality or in any other related enterprise. The Hungarian Development Bank will now be removed from this circle. We take it out of this circle, and we say that the Hungarian Development Bank and its related companies, so what the Hungarian Development Bank is listed as the owner of, are no longer included in the creditworthiness. But he doesn't count on the risk. It does not count on the risk that, let's say, there is a stake in the Hungarian Development Bank. After the Development Bank deals with everything, I can imagine that it will not be successful in everything, because I remember when the Hungarian Development Bank transferred the Hungarian gas business from MVM to the Hungarian Development Bank. That's when we asked if the Hungarian Development Bank was going to sell sour candy or maybe cheese noodles. I think that there should be a kind of profile cleanup in any way, we should see the portfolio that the Hungarian Development Bank would like to manage in the coming period, and we should not give so much leeway to a single minister. Let us not forget that here it could be said that from the gas sale through the noodles to the sale of the sour candy, you can do anything without the MFB neck, you can point out to any company that you buy, that he can create an economic company, that he can borrow, that he can burden the economic company, but that will still not be included in the solvency - because you are now removing it from its scope - that the Hungarian Development Bank can tolerate. I am sure that you will strive to make sure that the Hungarian Development Bank and its portfolio and its parts will want to pay off the commitments, the loans that we may take on. I am sure, and I am sure that this will cost the Hungarian taxpayers a great deal of money. It will cost you a lot of money, and you cannot even see it: Parliament's supervisory role has been abolished in this, which I do not understand, because they have so many of them that you can bring in and vote for an amendment to this House at any time in a week. So, in fact, parliamentary control has ceased, and in addition, there was an accounting limit for another piece, which is a solvency limit, and in order not to add it up, if one company in the portfolio is malfunctioning, it does not have to be counted against the others if there is a need for credit power. I think it is wrong to also remove accounting controls and risk analysis controls. If we think that we will also do so with regard to European Union funds - if we treat European Union funds as if they could be achieved in the easiest, smoothest procedures and little risk-enabled procedures - then, Mr Secretary of State, I think we have the wrong idea. I think that the European Union, although sometimes rightly and sometimes unfairly expects the terribly complicated accounting system and enforcement system that we are part of, but if we want to be part of a club, then the rules of this club must, of course, be respected. I also believe that the use of these funds, or even the buffering or anything else, is the most problematic, riskiest financing system in Hungary at the moment, and unfortunately, there is no legislation - as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, and indeed, the justification does not really mention it - if any project firm or the Development Bank itself has a debt to repay. What happens in that case, in addition to the fact that you are now lifting the last limit? In this regard, the empire of John Lazarus is complete, he can claim any amount of money, he can point to any company, he can buy it, it doesn't matter whether it is the energy sector or any other sector, he can buy it, and otherwise these debts cannot be added together. Mr. Secretary. You promised us that there would be transparency, you promised us that we would see a reasonably detailed and transparent operation here, where we will all admit that we were wrong when we thought that this was not the case. Mr. Secretary. My reputation is that transparency is certainly not increased. If we take everything that is taken out of the general rules and place it under special rules such as this - and now it is fourth and fourth, the Hungarian Development Bank is fully subject to separate procedures and fully subject to special rules - then in that case, I believe that transparency will be reduced in all cases. This will backfire, and we will therefore not support this proposal. It cannot be exempted from all requirements, I think, even in the interests of the state, especially a company as big as the Hungarian Development Bank, and especially if we intend to play a role for the Hungarian Development Bank as we hear it in the sustainability of the reduction of the costs, whether in processing and collecting data or in energy supply in Hungary. In this portfolio of companies, of which we see only the outlines at all, I still believe that it would be in your interest, too, but in the interest of Parliament, the interests of the Hungarians, in any case, would be in the interest of you to report, to bring proposals here, to discuss them, and to vote on the proposals discussed later. Let us not act as the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, which, after its performance of the last five years yesterday, reported annually on five consecutive agendas, in breach of all previous legislation. By the way, if someone didn't know him, whether from TV viewers or from those sitting on the gallery, this was the fund that spent the money that many people had saved for their pensions, some HUF 3 000 billion; it was not necessary to report it for five years. I think, Mr State Secretary, that we are certainly wrong to think that one violation of the law will legitimize the other, even if it is done by the author himself in a very poorly formulated, very unprofessional justification. They're putting too much weight on their shoulders. I think that monitoring would also help you in this matter, and I think that it is still the Prime Minister who has appointed the target functions in this country, but sometimes it is not certain - to give someone such an overpower, and in one person. The Hungarian Socialist Party will not be a partner to this, and I would also ask you to reconsider the withdrawal of this proposal in the interests of transparency and verification. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-20-88	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr János Volner. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In general, Jobbik has always been a fan of transparency with regard to the Hungarian economy, because in transparency and control we see the guarantee that corruption transactions and abuses related to the government can be curbed. As early as 2010, the government started the process of narrowing down the possibility of transparency. [[14.50]] In my speech before the agenda, I spoke about the fact that they filled up all the functions that would have been required to be accounted for: the President of the National Court of Justice, the Chief Prosecutor, was also a fidesz delegate in the leadership of the Curia, and they held the leading positions of the police, not least because of this, while international corruption researchers are talking about the direct damage to Hungary by corruption of at least HUF 400 billion, while the so-called bodies for accountability cannot find any trace of this. This bill, which lies before us, is not only going in the wrong direction because it reduces transparency, reduces auditability, but also undermines parliamentary rights. The possibility of parliamentary control in the economic field is typically provided by the Parliament's Economic Committee, of which I myself am a member. At a time when the government will ensure that commercial banks and market participants are deprived of their participation in preferential lending - and this proposal also talks about the fact that funds financed by EU money will be available only through the MFB - it will do nothing more than restrict competition in the market and will focus more power in the hands of the government and the Prime Minister, since the way in which the money is distributed and the criteria for selection can be determined by the government. In this case, we can see an eloquent example of this, because it will be the MFB itself that hides the data behind bank secrets, and they are practically pointing at someone to fund him, not to fund him, another market player. I consider this to be a very damaging thing on my part, and if my fellow Members look at the practices of low-corruption countries, they are going in the exact opposite direction as the Orbán government is doing now. I consider it very important that there should be public participation in the Hungarian banking sector, but public participation should work in a verifiable manner, so that the recipients of loans from Community sources and grants from Community sources can also be checked, it is important that Parliament's right to control in this case should be implemented. This is in the interests of Hungarian taxpayers. I also consider it important that, in addition to the fact that the government does not consider these data to be confidential and that it cannot decide to hide behind bank secrets who receive such funds, it is also necessary to ensure that commercial and banking players are included. Not because we want to represent the interests of capital, but because we see that the side of risk analysis in the State and in the state-owned banks is not equipped to decide on the financing of different economic sectors with sufficient data and industry experience. So, in general, I say that there is a place for market competition in this area, and I think it is important that transparency improves, and that this proposal, since it takes a position contrary to both aspects, is, of course, not supported by Jobbik. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask who would like to comment on the agenda; it may be two minutes or as a normal speech. [[No signal.]] I note that no one is applying for a speech, and since no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. Secretary Csepreghy says yes. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to go through the speeches one by one, thanking Mr Tamás László for his supportive words, Mr Mesterházy's constructive contribution, although I think that proves nothing but sensitivity to the subject. However, I would particularly like to respond to what Mr László Szakács said; on the one hand, that we are not talking about the fact that, in the case of companies owned by the MFB, the Hungarian Development Bank should not examine and classify risks, we are just talking about the fact that, in the case of two companies with a completely different profile, this risk community does not need to be collapsed in the case of the two companies, not that these risk controls do not have to comply with the Hungarian Development Bank or do not have to comply with all the companies owned by the Hungarian Development Bank. [[Dr. László Kács: I know!]] However, the additional sentences were not linked to the specific proposal, so allow me not to respond to them. However, I would certainly like to respond to what Mr Volner said, on the one hand, to the various expectations raised in relation to transparency. I think that many of the other proposals that have already been discussed before Parliament and that will come before Parliament will be about this. For example, the new Public Procurement Act, which sets out lower criteria for participation in public investment. Much of these public investments are made from EU funds. All of them, according to the government's view, can support transparency, the participation of more players, thereby reducing the price of public investment. However, it is a misunderstanding from Jobbik's representative that the Hungarian Development Bank is given the exclusive opportunity to participate in the allocation of the European Union's reimbursable resources. The Hungarian Development Bank performs the central coordination of this task at government level, but, as stated in the news, the Hungarian Development Bank will select financial institutions in a public procurement, who essentially create the 400 points in Hungary where we make these reimbursable funds available to the entire economic sector. All EU and domestic rules applicable to the allocation of other EU funds are also valid and binding. Thus, how, on the basis of what parameters, subsidised firms, supported organisations, supported municipalities are selected, the same publicity rule applies as for other EU rules. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2015-10-20-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we begin to discuss the next item, I would like to announce that President János Áder has sent a transcript of the appointment of State Secretarys to the Parliament. I call on President Attila Móring to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2015-10-20-93	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister proposed Csaba Dömötör, János Nagy and Dr. Bencé Tuzson as State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with effect from 21 October 2015, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Law 215 On the basis of Article 2 (2) of the Prime Minister's proposal, Dr. Marcell Bíró was appointed State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with effect from 21 October 2015. Budapest, 19 October 2015 Sincerely: János Áder
u2015-10-20-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain legal acts until closure. The Government's submission is T/6635. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-95	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, the Parliament decided on the establishment of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office as the Ministry. In order for the newly formed Ministry to be able to integrate effectively into the central administration system, further legislation needs to be amended in order to achieve the effectiveness of general political coordination. [[15.00]] The legislative proposal currently under general discussion contains amendments to the establishment of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, on the one hand with regard to the Act on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys, and on the other hand with regard to the Act on Public Service Officers. The amendment of the Act on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys is justified for reasons of public administration organisation as follows. The Prime Minister may appoint a Prime Minister Commissioner to carry out his duties in accordance with the normative instructions of the Prime Minister. Some of the tasks to be performed by Prime Minister Commissioners relate to the coordination of government activities, and some of them relate to general political coordination, so the bill allows the secretariat assisting the Prime Minister in carrying out his activities to operate in a ministry led by the Prime Minister, whose tasks and powers are closely linked to the activities of the Prime Minister's Commissioner. The bill provides that the Prime Minister's mission abroad will be carried out by the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff. The bill allows an appropriation to cover the cost of the Prime Minister's public offerings and donations, which is currently the budget chapter of the Prime Minister's Office, to be set up in the future in the budget chapter of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, The law on public service officials will be amended in the following areas. The bill allows the proportion of persons employed in the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with contracts of employment during the year to exceed 10 per cent of the annual average statistical staff without specific authorisation by the Minister for Administrative Quality Policy and Staff Policy. In view of the nature of the tasks performed in the Ministry led by the Minister for General Policy Coordination, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, the bill allows the establishment of prime minister's chief advisors and prime minister's advisors, by qualified as political advisors and political advisors in the performance of tasks directly related to the Prime Minister's activities and in the performance of tasks related to the preparation of government decisions. With regard to these political advisors or political advisors, the employer's rights shall be exercised by the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff. The bill makes it clear, in particular, that the designation of prime minister's chief advisors, which may be used by prime ministers' agents, is not in any context with the post as set out above in the Public Service Officers Act, and has no legal effect. Dear Parliament, As has already been explained on several occasions, the Government has the right to freedom of organisation. In order for this right to be effective and enforceable, it is essential to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2015-10-20-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the last few weeks, the Parliament has had a serious debate on the freedom of the government to organise, concerning this issue, about the relationship between the government and the Parliament. Instead of a profound constitutional treatise, we can say that, even after the adoption of our Fundamental Law, Parliament still has a significant authority in the establishment of a government structure or, if you will, in its prior approval. At the same time, it should also be noted that Parliament has so far given the executive power a free hand in the establishment of its highest level organisations, such as the ministries. XX of 2014 on the list of ministries in Hungary Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. As regards the newly formed Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, it is appropriate to allow, in line with the tasks and powers of the Minister who manages the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, all decisions of a staff policy or administrative and organisational nature which are possible for the Prime Minister's Office to be taken in the context of the legislative proposal on the amendment, which has now been adopted and published. As it turned out from last week's hearing of the Commission's candidates for ministers for justice, the newly formed ministry does not fit into the traditional structure of the Ministry of Specialistry. The Minister considers it his primary task to bring people's opinions closer to government. This kind of approach must shape the whole of government. I believe that this special task requires an organisation other than the average, which ensures efficiency and modernity. In view of the expected low level of staff of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office and the specificities of the tasks performed, it is also appropriate to remove the 10 per cent restriction in public administration, as we have heard here, for those employed with employment contracts, but, if necessary, to employ more than the indicated number of professionals in the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. In view of the nature of the tasks carried out in the ministry led by the Minister for General Policy Coordination, the bill allows for the establishment of a prime minister's chief advisor and prime minister's advisory position, with the possibility that, in the case of performing tasks directly related to the Prime Minister's activities and performing tasks directly related to the preparation of the government's decisions, these posts may be qualified as political advisors and political advisors. This provision is particularly important since the Ministry is responsible for political coordination, so it is well established that political advisors and political advisors can contribute to this. As Minister said at his hearing, if I understand his words correctly, there must be general rules in almost all areas of public administration; in the public sector, predictability and career model are key words that can make civil service careers attractive. However, in the immediate environment of the Prime Minister, this kind of policy-freeness cannot be expected, so the adoption of rules which are somewhat different from the general rule is not only justified, but can also be a condition of modern governance. I ask your support for this. Thank you for listening.
u2015-10-20-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2015-10-20-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Normally, such an amendment should actually go through this House without debate, because how the government structure is developing is always the responsibility and right of the government at all times to decide what structure it considers the country to be the most useful and effective in managing. The fact that opposition representatives are still involved in this debate, so that we are involved and commenting on it, may be better understood if we put a little bit more into the historical perspectives as to why a new ministry is needed in Hungary. In this historical fidelity we need to go a little further, perhaps we need to put this in a slightly broader context, because months ago or perhaps even after the elections, a succession battle was launched for Viktor Orbán's place. In this there were two main characters, they say, in the blue corner was one of the gentlemen, János Lázár, in the red and Antal Rogán, and they began to screw each other all the time that the Prime Minister would later, when there was a question of succession in 18... - then one of the two people started to screw each other. [[Márius Révész: 2026!]] win this thing. I understand that it is difficult for my fellow Member Márius Révész to bear the truth, but he will have to endure it. This was the story that these two young men, the two young Turks, fought and fought. Viktor Orbán ended this debate because, in particular, he said, as they say, the tube and the partisans came to the cornfield. So he said that kids, calm down, I'm going to run in 2018 as a candidate for Prime Minister, and from then on, this fight didn't make any sense anymore. But another dimension of the fight remains, namely, who will be the pet, who will be the first among the equals. [[15.10]] So these two gentlemen kept fighting, fighting each other inside the Fidesen, and it became a picture of what we are talking about here today in the form of a bill. There is only one discreet charm that all of this had to be taken in the name of János Lázár, for this bill shows that Antal Rogán, at least for a while, won this battle, because he was given a ministry velvet chair and even a whole ministry was packed under his back. Meanwhile, he has powers that John Lázár does not otherwise have, since John Lázár has to keep a limit on the number of employees and pay limits resulting from various laws, while Antal Rogán does not have to take this into account. Therefore, it can be said that this political struggle, this political struggle, once again, may be temporary, but it was won by Antal Rogán. From the outside, it looks like there is a political secretary of state for the purse, Antal Rogán in the rank of minister, and he has an administrative secretary of state in the person of János Lázár, also in the rank of minister. The only interesting thing is that the Prime Minister did not think that there was a need for a medical wallet in Hungary, there is no need for an environmental wallet in Hungary, there is no need for a Ministry of Finance in Hungary, but there is a need for a propaganda museum, because without it the work cannot be done for sure. So in Hungarian, if there is no medical wallet, if there is no environmental wallet, then at least have a wallet for Antal Rogán, and he will be given a suitable staphirung. The question is simply in our reading, what we do not understand is why the price of such a political struggle, which is about the power relations within Fidesen, the political debates within Fidesen, must be paid to taxpayers. Why can't this internal struggle be played out in such a way that it doesn't cost the Hungarian taxpayers any more money? Why do we need to transform an entire government structure in order to settle this debate in the fight of the young Turks. After all, there is no limit in number for Antal Rogán, as I have just mentioned, on what kind of employment contracts he should employ, and there is not actually a pay ceiling, as he can give any amount of salary in the form of employment contracts to colleagues working there, now the various senior advisors, such as consultants, put aside a little. I would like to add once again that in the meantime Lazarus has it, and he notes this present proposal. By the way, there was an example earlier that the Prime Minister had a chief of staff. This was the case for each government. In fact, there were many models, two models worked. One was during the Horn administration, when the Prime Minister's Office was controlled by the Prime Minister himself, and had a political and administrative secretary of state. In addition, he had, of course, a chief of staff, who, on the other hand, served as secretary of state and directed the department beneath him accordingly. They were the staff who dealt with the Prime Minister's affairs, affairs, political coordination within the public administration. Then there was another model later, in the period of the first Fidesz government, where a minister led the Prime Minister's Office, and there was a similar administrative secretary of state and political secretary of state. He was also the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, who is now an ambassador in the name of Andor Nagy, who also served as Secretary of State. In English, there have been two models in recent years. Both cost much less than what the Prime Minister and Fidesz have decided now, since they did not go with such an apparatus, they did not come with such resources. It is also true that he did not have the prestige of a ministerial velvet chair, which was certainly important in this debate, as we can see. The Secretary of State mentioned efficiency. I would be more careful with that word in this context, because although a lot of things can come out of this, but not to increase efficiency, that is for sure. This debate has not stopped, but has been quiet. What you can see and see is that the two gentlemen did not love each other more, and there is no better example than the fact that János Lázár was not here at the ministerial inauguration of Antal Rogán. I know you were abroad, but to be honest, as party president, I had one of those things where I suddenly had to go abroad so I didn't have to attend an event. So I understand that this debate and tension remain between the two gentlemen, which, in turn, will be a factor in terms of effectiveness, that is quite certain. So I think that, rather than quieting down, rather than simplifying the operation of the government, I think that a political struggle and debate will be permanent, which will certainly form a wasp's nest in the Prime Minister's office. We could say that this is the problem of Viktor Orbán, because, once again, the taxpayers are financing it, because it is the Hungarian government and not the Presidency of Fidesz, therefore this country, too, can have disadvantages for the nation. So, from an administrative point of view, it is certainly either a problem with the government's governance if it is two politicians who are so conflicting or in dispute with each other who perform such a serious task in the government. Knowing János Lázár, he must have had trouble taking the frog he had to swallow, and I am quite certain that he will look for the opportunity to return it to the one who pushed him down in this battle. That is why the opposition, at least we ourselves, is giving an opinion on this, because we see it as a mere symptom of the problem that we now see as a bill. There was simply no other way of resolving the personal conflict that had developed within Fidesen, and a kind of not-so-good solution to that, and an expensive solution for taxpayers, which the Prime Minister and the two gentlemen concerned had come up with. We fear that this will be the result of further problems, not the solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-20-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would ask all Members to use only the terms appropriate to the dignity of this House. I now give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This otherwise legitimate presidential request will be extremely difficult to comply with in the debate of such impertinent legislative proposals, but I promise to make a firm attempt on it. I'd pick up where Attila Mesterházy left off. No matter how they box, no matter how they fight, no matter how they build or build their own stage, the truth of the movie The Highlander will prevail: there can only be one. It doesn't matter how they wrestle each other. By the way, I wouldn't bet on Antal Rogán in this fight on the basis of my own political snout. But that's my private opinion. In the end, there will be only one. How they're gonna kill him, make him impossible, destroy each other, and what damage it's gonna do to Fidesz, that's gotta be their problem. I'm not even sure we can argue about who won this battle of theirs or who lost it. I am not sure, by the way, that John Lázár was so bad at this lineup, although he is forced to swallow the fact that a very spectacular and expensive stage has now been erected for his greatest rival. We could have a formal debate or talk about how he's opening up numbers and basically making pay ceilings and pay frames completely, to the extremes, to the end, because that's what it's all about. Whether we call him a consultant, a chief advisor or just how we label him, the story really is that Antal Rogán can appoint his loyal arms bearers from now on without any limitation or almost payment limits. Just before the debate began, we saw that the appointments of State Secretary had already taken place. But there is nothing else - and I would like to point out this in the context of this proposal - that this is a kind of initial period of political cannibalism. Because the political and economic moonyard of Fidesz has grown unconscious, there are a lot of mouths to feed. It is a well-known fact that the more a person eats himself, the more his stomach expands, the wider his stomach, the more food he must take. This becomes a self-exciting process. One of the embarrassing stages of this self-promoting process is that Antal Rogán will be a self-ministerial minister and that he can carry out or have to carry out this activity without the number of employees and the ceiling. The price should be paid to taxpayers, taxpayers who do not earn in most of a year do not pocket as much net salary as a Rogán consultant or senior advisor will, if appropriate, take home at the end of the month. I am thinking here primarily, but not exclusively of those workers in East Hungary, or, by the way, of civil servants who do their work in small settlements, with secondary education, for HUF 80-90 thousand net worth. [[15.20]] I would like to know - and we will examine this - what will be in the job description of the consultants, senior advisors, and some of the various tagged siserahad participants. So in reality, what will these people actually do, what do they do, what do they spend eight hours a day? What kind of work can be given to so many people? You're gonna get a job like that? You're gonna be full-time coffee makers and coffee makers? Talking guys, maybe? Or are they the couriers of Antal Rogán's errand, perhaps the suppliers of his staff's property? What can we give these people for hundreds of thousands of forints per month or millions of forints per month? You can tell me that. Will everyone organise the Prime Minister's activities, domestic and foreign travel? Or what will they do? Mr. Secretary, I know this is an unpleasant situation for you, because you have to protect the indefensible, but that's the role you have now. In your opinion, and I would like a firm answer to that question, what jobs can be imagined for such a number of salaries by promising a economy-saving government and economy in 2010. At that time, not only did they advertise job stops and draw the line in the faceless severance pay, there was the 98 percent special tax, which now changed to 75 percent, and the severance payments above HUF 2 million were considered impertinent, the procurement of cars, office supplies and furniture, and the IT procurements were stopped. Then this stop was lifted after the 2010 municipal elections, and tens of billions of forints a year will be used for this purpose. We are now at the point of having 51 State Secretarys, 101 Deputy State Secretary and 51 Ministerial Commissioners, if I count them correctly. The story is nothing more than an enlarged stomach, an increasing desire for food, and an increasing number of hungry mouths. This system, the economic lunar yard, the innermost, the wider, increasing number of political lunar yards must be fed from something, and now the system begins to eat itself. Now they're gonna take each other's bites, because the options for either the dirt dog or the tramp dog or the casino dog are limited. You can be a minister in Hungary today who has an unclear role, an affair with an offshore horse and a casino owner who has a close friendship with a man who has had to cut off a complete domestic business that has made thousands and tens of thousands of people unemployed [[Márius Révész: Hundreds of thousands!]] , who are not closely related to the gambling industry or to the slot machine activity, but to the catering business associated with it. It's easy to yell, Congressman Révész, who hasn't been condemned. I know a lot of people, and I feel sorry for them in the first place, who didn't live on the slot machine, but had employees in an entrepreneur, a business, or even dozens of them. They were decapitated just to give a friend this virtually state monopoly. There we should connect the various cash registers online to the Vajna casino, check the traffic from minute to minute, not only through the surveillance cameras, because from there an amazing amount of money could flow into the state register, and then perhaps a degree more justified or more understandable would be what they did. He has become a minister and can appoint consultants and senior advisors without a limit and without a wage ceiling who do not clarify how his daily life is financed. A recent article on a news portal revealed that his official net salary would not cover his expenses. If you look at the common cost of the property bought in again in unclear circumstances, the different cost of living, you can't even answer how the maid, her secretary, the various non-political employees pay her wages, how much she pays them at all, and she can barely afford to pay them on paper. How can Antal Rogán afford this? He didn't answer either, nor can he tell us how his wealth was made. It is assumed that, in his case, there is no proportion of net income taxed and the increase in movable, immovable and other property. These fundamental questions should have been examined with greater caution by the Prime Minister when he carved a minister from Antal Rogán. And the fact that we're discussing this bill the day after we take the oath is particularly cynical. If I were you, it would be very difficult or impossible for me to look into the eyes of civil servants who, for a fraction of these sums, are forced to slave not only eight hours a day, but often ten or twelve hours a day. If you consider these arguments more carefully, you can either withdraw this bill or impose some kind of limitation on the number of employees and wages on Antal Rogán's unbridled appetite. For it is true that the right to set up a free organization belongs to the government at all times, but the right to spend free money does not belong to any government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-102	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but we do not have a candidate for this. However, there is a normal speaker in the person of László Szakács. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I understand, Mr State Secretary, that you are not in an easy situation, and I also understand that you will not respond to any questions - you have not responded to the previous one - that do not belong closely to the proposal. However, I am asking you to take part in this debate in a formal manner. It's not something that people do, by the way. I believe that if you are now disrupting this bond flight, and a serious and important political issue can be discussed in this House, we could make a big step forward. That is why I said that this pretend democracy must be played somewhere, of course, but it would also include the fact that the Secretary of State not only tells us what he wants to react to and what he doesn't want to react to, but we also try to set aside, talk to each other and try to negotiate with each other. The problem is that what my fellow Member Apáti said to say as a summary, where the courtship comes from, we do not know now, but we will soon know. That's what this Ministry is gonna be about. I first wondered what would be in the statute for this. Will it be in your statute that I have to spend a lot of time with the Prime Minister, or do I have to organize some of the Prime Minister's things? We see that there are parallel powers, but the conditions are not equal. As my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, in this catfight, the course is now quite hard on one side, because one of them was given a free hand. However, here I must refer you back to the previous agenda - and for that I apologise - for two sentences. Therefore, János Lázár's margin within the framework of the Hungarian Development Bank in connection with funds and all the means to build an empire, in my opinion, is no less than the number limit that Mr.Antal Rogán, now Minister, has received in this ministry. I would also ask Mr Secretary of State that we should not always be confined to the presentation because the proposals are related to each other. I was able to prove earlier that it was about four or five proposals, which serve the same purpose, the same direction vector, and the same purpose function. I think that, of course, it is possible to argue, in the case of this law, about the limits, the salary, the consultants, the chief advisors and other posts, but I still think that if we are politicians and we are serious politicians, then we must also look at the background of each decision and the political environment surrounding it. I agree perfectly with my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, who has told me what this political environment is. I also think that Viktor Orbán is balancing on the shoulders of these two people, and then we will see where this will be decided, but it will cost the Hungarian taxpayers very much. It's not the first time. Once again, I have to refer back to the first MFB submission, where Miklós Seszták had Miklós bring in the fact that he thanked him very much, did not ask for the resources of the Hungarian Development Bank, did not ask for its instrumental system, and he would like to be able to use this system in a much broader norm world in the future. We believe that these fights are quite spectacularly embodied here in Parliament, in the form of laws. We asked you then, as we are now, to wash your family laundry at home. It does not have to cost the Hungarians money, therefore there is no need to sit through parliamentary sessions, therefore there is no need to argue about it, and therefore there is no need to create pretense laws and pretend ministries. Secretary of State, you are absolutely right that you have the full right to establish a governance structure. However, our position must be that there is that government propaganda is represented at a higher level in a government than in education, health or social affairs. [[15.30]] These ministries are not, and you do not handle these matters at ministerial level, or even the Secretary of State for Health, you will do so with lasso, because you know it, but loyalty is very important, and you wouldn't plant anyone there. In the education department, what's going on in the KLIK, is this department gonna solve it? What kind of problems you have when you feed your children will be solved by the Propagandaministery? Yeah, they're gonna try to plant it in human heads with billboard campaigns, so please, we're doing great. Just as soon as we turn off the TV, as soon as these posters are taken off, everyone will face reality. And, Secretary of State, believe me, I certainly believe that education, health and the social sphere deserve much more than giving Antal Rogán a stokit now, because János Lázár already has one. That is what this proposal is all about, and then you can see how the catfight goes on, how this fight will go on, which will certainly go on, because these two people will not give up. I would like to draw attention to one more thing. We asked him how much this was gonna cost. Your secretary of state visited the Committee on Budgets, and I do not know exactly whether he is associated with the State Secretary, L. Simon László. There we saw that the Committee on Budgets had a series of names for this ministry, which we call propagandaistry in summary: expenditure zero and support demand zero. Mr Secretary, we know that this is in balance, and that is the right thing to do. But let's not be naive. We all know it won't stay that way. There are two things to mention here. One is that, if you still do not know how much this will cost and what organisation it will work with, I would like to ask you how planned you have succeeded in bringing this draft legislation and this change in the governance structure to us. They don't know how much it's gonna cost, but they can't even appreciate it. In fact, I have to tell you that the partner of Secretary of State L. Simon László went much further than that, because he said that he does not know and does not want to tell the Committee on Budgets how much it costs. Mr. Secretary, this is very wrong. If a member of the government responsible for Parliament can only say that I do not know, we are not happy either, but that can be accepted. But if a member of the government responsible for Parliament says to one of Parliament's most important committees that I do not want to mark the amount, then we must ask for it at the committee meeting, as we do here, in plenary. This is so wrong! It is not good practice, just as it is not good practice, if the norm is also a justification, as in the previous legislation, and it is not good practice if the Secretary of State does not want to report something. I believe that this is not allowed in parliamentary democracies. I think that, based on your judgment and your internal struggles, that kind of perception of reality has gone wrong somewhere, so now it's very difficult to tell the wrong from the right from the right, then let me give you, as a standard, what the Prime Minister has always been saying lately, common sense. Minister of State, where is common sense when there is no minister responsible for education, there is no minister responsible for health, there is no minister responsible for social affairs. There are no ministers responsible for these things in a family-friendly government, but the Minister of Propaganda is what we need! [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] The Hungarians are in great need of this Parliament, there is a great need for legislation, even if you will always be able to say this, even on the basis of the law, but even on the basis of your healthy sense of law, you have, of course, a very, very wide right to develop the governance structure. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, said a little politely that he would treat me here by using the word. That's what I think. What is important about a government and which is not, in the organisation of society, in the organisation of society's life, is expressed precisely by the government structure, Mr. Secretary of State. The very important social issues, which are true, are soft services, because they cost the state money, and they cannot be taken away with a lot of money, not like, let's say, improvements, they are not important to you. Health is not important to you, education is not important to you, and the social issue is not important to you. On the other hand, it is much more important for you to show off your own power, to pass over your own power, and actually to make decisions that are already completely irrational, which will now be coordinated by Rogán Antal at the head of this ministry. I think that you owe me a lot of questions in this regard, and, in conclusion, I can ask the same thing that I asked you to do even with the MFB, on the one hand, the Secretary of State, to participate in the debate, to tell you what you think about what we said, not in the closing words, to be able to react to it, and on the other hand to solve your problems in-house, not to cost taxpayers money. And do not think that it is worth fighting with John Lazarus, because then he will become a minister of that other man, and then he will become another ministry of this country. Don't make this false or maybe just a false appearance. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-20-104	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, The Secretary of State is not in an easy position, and as I look at it, the Fidesz colleagues have left you quite alone in this debate. I thought they would defend the Prime Minister's proposal as a lion, and at least they would participate in the debate. [[Gyula Vantara: This is not a debate, because there are no arguments. Dr. Vas Imre: We didn't hear any arguments.]] But it's okay. So they're feeling that there's not a whole lot going on about this thing. [[Dr. Vas Imre: You have no arguments. Gyula Vantara: It's demagogy.]] From Demagogy, I think there's more to learn from Fidesz, that's for sure. Which is my question, and while László Szakács was speaking, I also thought that zero is equal to zero, otherwise, if it cost that much, then it would be okay, then there would be no problem. And I don't know, peach seed sales or chicken paprika cooking would cover the costs, that would be fine. But there probably won't be a zero-zero share of expenditure and revenue or support for this ministry, so I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, which is why I asked Mr. President if he knew how much it would cost. Or what is the estimate of how much this ministry will cost from personal wages to other operating expenses? Have you prepared any ideas, some sort of theoretical framework, that there is a limit to this? Let's just say Antal Rogán was told that you, listen, can spend a lot of money, but there's a top ceiling that shouldn't be exceeded. In English, does the new minister have any limitations that, normally, every other minister has to determine how many statuses he has, how much budget he has? Can you answer and answer that? Because the secretary of state probably didn't want to answer that drunkenly from the peach seed. So if you could give us some guidance in the end, that would be helpful. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-20-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. Mr. Secretary of State Csepreghy will take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-107	Thank you very much, Mr President, to Members, regardless of the word and party standing, I see the only unanimous opinion that they do not dispute the government's decision-making powers regarding government restructuring. However, there is a discreet charm when MSZP representatives talk about an effective state. After all, this country was led for several years when Hungarian voters were promised a reduction in the number of political elites. The present representatives of governments who have worked in the largest governmental structure of all time speak of a cheap and efficient state. I would like to remind you that the second Orbán government in 2010 has significantly reduced the number of Members of Parliament [[Attila Mesterházy: But not the number of State Secretarys.]] As the number of representatives of the local government decreased from 386 to 199, the number of representatives of the local government decreased by thousands. So if there is a government that has done something to reduce the political elite in Hungary, it is the current government. I would like to draw your attention to this or remind you. But even if you don't remember that, the voters will. [[15.40]] An interesting attempt on the part of the opposition, in which a major coalition of Jobbik in MSZP is beginning to emerge in the writing of a political soap opera [[István Apáti's intervention.]] which is all about trying to present a question through two politicians whose sole view is the effective government operation from the government's point of view. You know, it's no coincidence how you played in the elections in 2014. I believe that, for the third time, the Fidesz-KDNP party family has been given a mandate to conduct governance under the leadership of Viktor Orbán today, because we are dealing not only with political issues but also with the affairs of the people. I trust that people will see this in the everyday implementation of these policies. [[Dr. László Kács: I think you should deal with health.]] , and as a result of this, more of the votes of the. 14 will support Fidesz in 18 of the MSZP, even Jobbik. I ask Members to leave the right to operate the most efficient governmental structure in Hungary, even with this restructuring, which, I believe, gives the governments that have existed since the regime change the smallest governance structure compared to all other parliamentary parties. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Attila Mesterházy and Dr. László Cook applaud.]]
u2015-10-20-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. István Ikotity, notary of the Parliament, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of 'Guards for autonomy'. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-109	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, The Székely National Council intends to light the natural and historically established borders of Szeklerland on 24 October 2015. According to the slogan of the event, Szeklerland cannot be divided or melted, it can only be imagined as an autonomous autonomous administrative unit with additional powers between its natural and historically established regional borders in the future, which should also be a separate development region. The principles adopted in the European Union should also apply to Romania according to which the regions should be recognised rather than designated. The May Other is in agreement with the aims of the event, so a large number of LMP teams participate in Gyergyószentmiklós, joining the initiative. We could not do otherwise, as the LMP is committed to the freedom of self-determination of communities, so we also strongly support the struggle for autonomy of minority people and local communities. We consider it a matter of paramount importance for all Hungary to support the acquisition of territorial autonomy in Szeklerland. It is of the utmost importance that the struggle of autonomy be a grassroots organization, which involves Transylvanian Hungarians widely, but also provides an opportunity for non-Hungarian speakers to understand: autonomy is a democratic, peaceful and rule of law will and development in diverse Romania. In the struggle of the Hungarians of Transylvania, we must help them from home and from the universal Hungarian cultural life of the world to feel in Transylvania that they have help, and thus the open will for the rights of their own freedom is sustainable. In accordance with the power of the LMP, it will help at home and in European fora to ensure that people living in Szeklerland acquire their right of liberty. It is in our common interest to develop sympathy with other peoples within a peaceful and diverse Romania, since it is in everyone's common interest to find the creative thinking about the challenges facing the economic and labour situation that affect the eastern half of the EU. Economic emigration is a common concern of the Central and Eastern European region. The only way for countries in need of economic semi-periphery to exercise their population-preservation power is if they are on their feet as stable as possible. This requires cooperation and reinforcement of local farmers, the SME sector. The communities of the region cannot afford not to devote their energies to creating positive value. One of the important elements of the way here is to create a division of labour between the majority and minorities, which respects each other's cultural traditions, can learn from each other, can work together, can undertake, can teach to ensure the well-being of their children in a safe and peaceful Carpathian Basin. The May Other of Politics hopes that the boundaries of the, the light of the Szeklerland! The initiative achieves its goal and shines its light all the way to Bucharest and Brussels so that decision-makers can understand the principle that a country can only succeed if every minority is free to experience its own identity. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-20-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr President Novák, Mr Jobbik, spoke with the title of our anti-communist demands, unfortunately, which are still current. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-20-111	Dear Parliament, The past 25 years, especially the Fidesz-KDNP governments, are ashamed that there is still no history of state security, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, and there is no government intention to do so. Moreover, this year, on the occasion of the Memorial Day of the victims of communism, the pro-government representatives did not support our parliamentary debate on Parliamentary Day, which was initiated by Jobbik, which is the failure of the regime change, which is still current anti-communist demands. I think that the payment of Communist luxury pensions is the most outrageous. The withdrawal of a few thousand forints' pension allowances for the communist medals is also a semi-solution, while the grant of the prosecutor, György Mátsik, asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, has not been reduced by one forint. For example, in the case of Béla Biszku or Rezső Ruhány, the person whose pension was reduced is still receiving hundreds of thousands of luxurious pensions per month, and this year they increased their allowance again. In the previous system, a comprehensive amendment to the pension law already submitted by Jobbik in July 2010 would require a revision of Jobbik's overall pension law, in which Jobbik would transpose the existing Polish legislation into the Hungarian legal system. On numerous occasions, however, this was voted down by the Parliament with the cooperation of the MSZP and Fidesz, even putting the proposal on the agenda, to the greatest pleasure of Béla Biszku. It is no wonder, then, that, since the so-called regime change, he avoided the spotlight for decades, in his own statement, because he feared that attention would be drawn to him, he was so encouraged in all these votes that he finally participated in the public inauguration of the statue of János Kádár in the system of national cooperation. Because it seems that with these communist authoritarian regimes, mass-murdering criminals are the current government's idea of national cooperation. Jobbik's proposal to amend the pension law would affect thousands of people, it would mean billions of forints a year if not only with one or two symbolic Biszku Béla and not only with its pension bonus, but also with its real, hundreds of thousands of forints of basic pensions, and, indeed, from the blood judges, blood prosecutors to the members of the Central Committee of the MSZMP, even to the members of the MSZP Parliamentary Assembly. Because we think a serious proposal should look like this. It is very painful for us that neither so-called lustration, the banning of communist leaders from public life, nor accountability itself could have been created, since we can see how the proceedings against Béla Biszku are being pulled. And we have seen that, in the case of György Mátsik requesting a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, our complaint was rejected, which my fellow Member György Szilágyi made, a reason that I think the prosecution of the 1950s and 1960s could have envied. And then they try to take the wind out of our sails with little pretend action for this half-solution, try to believe that the cause of communist luxury pensions has been solved, even though only in the case of medals such as the Red Star Medal of Honor, the partisan in armed combat, and we could still list the half a dozen awards under which widow's or subject's rights are still paid. [[15.50]] After all, this little beauty patch, together with Mary Wittner, was indeed accepted by the Parliament, but Tibor Navracsics, the responsible, competent minister, did not implement the law on time. Several times, he didn't answer me with a resignation or at least an apology, but with an amendment of the law. The law was amended to correct lawlessness, by pushing the deadline, he responded to multiple appeals, and by the time the law was very difficult to implement, he finally found that after the communist medal, say after the Red Star medal, he was entitled to a few thousand forints of pensions. Is that to be pleased, ladies and gentlemen? That's out of the question. Jobbik will accomplish its anti-Communist programming points by going to the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-20-112	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 15:51 p.m.]]
