u2015-04-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Welcome. The 22nd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, I would remind the Honourable Parliament that just 15 years ago, in 2000, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the proposal to commemorate the Holocaust in our country on 16 April, which was commemorated in our schools and many events and is commemorated today. And in 2004, we handed over the Holocaust Memorial Museum and Documentation Center, and every year when he met, the National Assembly also remembered these facts, just to make it clear that the destruction never began with the railway platforms, brutality and violence, but always with the words and sentences written. Holocaust Memorial Day is about never happening again. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Ms. Ágnes Vadai is an independent Member of Parliament under the 76th Parliamentary Act. Under §2 of the Rules of Procedure, he informed the Speaker that the Metropolitan Court was 26BPKF6719/2. By order No.3 he upheld the decision of the Central District Court of Pest, acting in the first instance, under which he was prosecuted for the offence of defamation. The congresswoman is of the opinion that this is a violation of her immunity. The Speaker of the House is the announcement under Rule 77 of the Parliamentary Act. § (1) has been issued to the Committee for examination and, pursuant to the provision cited, on this day of the sitting, it shall inform the Parliament thereof. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, then from noon to 2:30, then we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from about 1:30 to 3:30, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, István Ikotity, Member of the European Parliament, LMP:. The most serious problems of Hungarian health care. The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, today the May Other of the Politics faction came in black, with this black dress we would like to express [[Members of the LMP stand up.]] our solidarity with health workers who have demonstrated this way over the weekend against unsustainable working conditions and the current state of health. [[The LMP congressmen are sitting down.]] We are also doing this because we agree with them that we need immediate and real action to resolve the situation of Hungarian health and healthcare workers. Almost everyone outside the government can see and feel this in Hungary. What does the government do in this increasingly unsustainable situation? They're gonna announce that they're legalizing the gratuity money. This is yet another proof that the government's ideas have nothing to do with reality. It is no coincidence that, without exception, all relevant professional organisations have made it clear that the government's plans in this regard are unacceptable and that their introduction should also be condemned on a moral basis. It's hard to tell what the government can hope for from legalizing gratuity money. Obviously, they looked at the 8.3 billion forints, which, according to the HCSO estimates, is the lower limit of what the population is spending each year to get a little better and faster care despite the current state of health care. However, the legalisation of gratuity money will not solve the problems of Hungarian health care and healthcare workers, but will strengthen them. If this proposal is implemented, it will speed up the migration of health workers, as workers have said in many places that such a system is offensive and humiliating to them, and the legalisation of gratuity money will further increase the unfair differences in the pay of individual health workers that are still in place. The government should find a solution somewhere else. We need health care from which neither the working environment nor wages, but not even government ideas, uncertainty or unpredictableity are driving doctors, nurses and all other health professionals abroad, and this cannot happen without increasing the amount of expenditure on health care. You can't replace it with gratitude money, you can't replace it with a wage increase, and now the government says to health workers, "Don't expect a decent wage increase, no more than gratuity money, if you want to make a living at home." Without a wage increase, the Hungarian health system continues on the slope; if the government continues to do so, we will soon see what is at the bottom of the slope. It seems that a quick solution cannot be expected by health workers. We have already seen how long it takes to settle hospital debt. They've been talking about it for over six months, with daily malfunctions in hospitals. The distribution of the residue at the end of last year has brought temporary relief, but it has not been a solution, and all its positive effects have now disappeared. However, according to the latest news, the government would like to postpone the solution by paying back an amount that is not sufficient for anything, which is not a lasting solution. It is quite clear that these are mere pretend measures; the sole purpose of the government is to postpone the complete collapse of the system by a few months or days if it is very necessary, but it cannot - or does not want - solve the problem, while a well-functioning health care would benefit the whole country. And if they were not thinking about negotiating with suppliers, they would not put Hungarian businesses in a difficult position, to whom hospitals already owe over 60 days. In parentheses, this is often a multi-annual debt. The LMP expects the government not to cover up the problems, but to face them, and finally to start repairing the Hungarian health care system. The years of bleeding out of health care, the degradation of infrastructure and the exploitation of underpaid workers cannot continue. The mass emigration of the workers must be stopped, because the emigration of skilled workers is already putting safe care in jeopardy. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if the government wants to respond. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár. Then next time, you'll signal in some way, and then I know you want to react. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the issue of health care, I think, you always talk a lot at all times, and you're gonna talk a lot. Obviously, you said so yourself, there are always new questions in health care, but we can also ask a few of the previous 4 to 4.5 years where the government has taken action. Obviously, the debts of hospitals in 2010 were not zero forints, but I do not think that there has been a year in the last decades when healthcare had such a framework at its disposal. [[11.10]] There is a budget of some HUF 60 billion to settle the debt of public bodies such as hospitals. We are trying to use this budget, a financial framework, more precisely: we will use it to ensure that the debt of hospitals is settled to a greater extent than anyone in the previous period. I would not merely call this a fire-fighting or a pretend solution, honourable Member, because this is a huge debt of HUF 60 billion. The overall debt of hospitals was about the same when the budget was adopted, of course you did not vote for this 60 billion forint for the health sector, so the debt at the time of acceptance was just as much as this amount. So it can greatly help the situation in hospitals and, of course, we would like to pass this amount on to hospitals in such a way that they then take measures for sustainable management. You are well aware that the county health consulting forums and councils were established months ago, in which the local hospital directors, the head of the local administration, OEP experts or the experts of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which was delegated to them, discussed how the capacities should be organised in the county. This now has a survival, as it goes on in two directions, these discussions have largely taken place, on the one hand, an economic and, on the other hand, an administrative management line. But it is not just about organizing issues for the government, but we also said that money should be raised. That is why we voted in favour of your protest and budgetary opposition to this 60 billion HUF framework. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What else was in that budget?]] which will reach hospitals this year; just as last year, in August, the HUF 10-15 billion that was already spent by the government to pay off the burning debts at that time. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] However, it is also important that we continue to take the steps that we have taken with regard to health wage increases, since there is consensus among all that much more wages should be paid to doctors and nurses in health care. A total of 95 thousand people have increased their salaries in the last four years; we have spent HUF 76 billion on this. This is also a sum that you would find relatively little in the budget of the previous cycles, which is difficult to find, because it was this government that tried to involve a new source in health with the chips tax, the introduction of the public health product fee. We always have to spend more and more money on health care, and we know that, and we see it well. At the same time, it was necessary to provide for this from other sources, not from sectors, not from others, but from a fee introduced for an additional and otherwise acceptable purpose in relation to the quasi-penalty or increase in the price of unhealthy foods, the government was able to cover the wage increase that could lead to an average wage increase of 27 per cent. [[Dr. András Schiffer: A little about emigration!]] Of course, there's plenty more to raise on these wages. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: There is!]] But the government has started a policy of wage increases here in the field of health care. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: At least that was true!]] If you can't stand it, fellow Members, without yelling [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: No, we can't.]] Although we have listened to you peacefully if you ask me about emigration, honourable Member, I can answer you that, too. Indeed, this migration is also a very big problem in health care. This is why it was important for you to look at the trends of the past, that in the case of doctors around 2012-13, the number of doctors who would ask for permission to continue their activities abroad decreased in 13 and 14 respectively. The number of these permits has decreased by 250 people, which were requested and issued to the health authority a year. So it remains a problem for doctors to leave, but at the same time it is much lower [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What?]] or is noticeably smaller than it was in 2010. There is much that helps, and this is not the case by itself, honourable Member, but because we have launched the residency scholarship programme for residents, because they can earn more than 100 or 200 thousand forints net and maybe stay home better. This was a solution for 2500 residents. 2,500 residents! You should be happy about that, you shouldn't just be whining about it, you should be happy that doctors are staying home. But you seem to be happy to leave. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they'll be moaning when they stay home. He helped 2,500 residents, young doctors stay home, and that, I think, is our success. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-20-4	Dear Parliament, Congressman György Lukács, from Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Does the victim receive compensation? It's an address. The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Karcag is basically a quiet, quiet town in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County with its population of 20,000. From this tranquility and from this state, the city was shaken by a decade-old series of financial frauds known as a Karcag broker scandal and connected to a locally respected lady. What we know about the case is that she's faking a brokerage business and she's raising deposits offering high returns. First of all, he gained their trust because he was a respected person. He took over smaller or larger amounts, from whom he could receive up to HUF 10-100 million, but only a few million from the vast majority of the victims, which these people had all the savings. At the moment, it is known that the damage reaches nearly HUF 10 billion, the number of victims is estimated to be 700-800. According to the current opinion, nearly 90 percent of the people who invested here, who were tricked, are citizens, are people who have invested their last investment, inherited money, or the amount of money they have collected to buy a house, and they have been traded there, pretending to be currency transactions, by Marks Broker. The police acted exemplary and quickly joined the 700-800 victims together. But there were organs that weren't so exemplary. For example, he did not act as an exemplary example for those who would have had to keep track of the fact that such an amount would be included in an account, thus making a financial transaction, financial transactions, monitoring the banks in the city and the surrounding financial institutions about where the deposits were going, why there is a lack of deposits in urban banks, someone is collecting deposits in the city. There should also have been evidence that there are serious currency movements in the market, i.e. currency movements worth HUF 10 billion. A supervisor, if it was working properly, should have revealed this, should have noticed, and should have shut down those responsible prematurely. This thus points to the first task and the first mistake that awaits a solution, the failure of the supervisory system. This also raises the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank operating the supervisory system and the Minister of National Economy, Ministry of National Economy, associated with the Hungarian National Bank. But the question of who else could be responsible is rightly raised. The city has two Fidesz ministers of 25 years, so to speak, the territory of his reign. Mihály Varga, Minister of Karcagi and Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas have been doing their job there for the past 20-25 years. They decided everything, they checked everything, they had everything under control. How could a decade of financial fraud have not been noticed by the leaders of Karcag? Thus, the second task should be to clarify to the city leaders in Karcag, the mayor, the chairman of the county general meeting in Karcag, but also to the two ministers of Fidesz: whether they are in any connection with this collection of deposits, to disclose whether they or their close relatives obliged to make declarations of assets have placed and handled deposits in this undertaking. This is necessary to calm the state of the public at present and to make a statement and finally declare which side they are on. But what Jobbik has done and what has been done about this case: Jobbik representatives have been constantly working to reassure people after the explosion and to submit a bill - which was also submitted on Friday - which provides for compensation, which coincides with the fund for the Quaestor victims. But in addition, Jobbik will prepare a package of laws in which the responsibility of the supervisory authorities and public officials can be established, because they are primarily responsible for the scandal that has arisen in addition to the imposter. That is how the questions remained, Mr. Secretary of State. What does the government do to compensate the Karcags and the Karcags? Are they even entitled to compensation? When does the Secretary of State think he's going to uncover, examine the shortcomings of the financial supervision system, and when will the employees of the public administration who committed the mistake here be held accountable? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[11.20]]
u2015-04-20-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds and responds. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, another special case has been brought before the public on Wednesday. According to the news, a tour operator, a company based in Budapest, but also established in Karcagon, has collected deposits from private individuals in small and larger amounts. According to the information, he has been doing this for many years. As soon as this became known to the Central Bank, he immediately initiated an investigation and notified the police of the fact that he had neither an application nor an approved licence for a financial service provider's activity with the MNB. The police started the investigation, and the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Police Department ordered the investigation on suspicion of embezzlement; while the Department of Authorisation of the Ministry of National Economy also conducted an investigation, which resulted in the withdrawal of the activities of the travel organisation to this particular economic company. Indeed, it is a special case, since they have carried out activities for which they have not had any authorisation, and the activity they have carried out did not mean any issue of securities, they simply took over money from people on the basis of a contract and promised high returns, and still today, they cheated people with a 20% annual return. It is indeed a very interesting political background, as Congressman Luke highlighted. I would like to say here that the two ministers of Karcag City, Mihály Varga and Sándor Fazekas, had no investment in the company in question; they had no knowledge of the unauthorized financial activities of that company. The political relationship of this company, this person, is very interesting, since it has a clear political relationship with two parliamentary parties. For example, the Hungarian Socialist Party [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] regularly held his meetings at Karcagon, the restaurant of the company in question. Twelve meetings were held at the restaurant to which the said person accepted this crime, possibly a crime. But if you'll allow me, Congressman Luke, I'll come to you, too, because you probably know the answers to the lawyer's questions. You know the answer because Karcagon is registered to your family's law firm at the same address as Kun-Mediátor Kft. its premises. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] You're a member of the law firm. They did their work in a building. There's no way that you didn't know or you didn't know what was really going on in the building next door. I'm just asking whether your indemnification activity is to reassure your conscience; for I'm just asking you that you may have been able to advise your clients on the deposit collection activities of that person. (Noise in Jobbik's ranks. ) Dear Mr Luke, First, you clear yourself of any involvement in a series of crimes that you committed in that building. I can't believe you, as a lawyer, didn't know what happened in the next office by giving legal advice. [[György Szilágyi: If you know anything, press charges. Go to the police.]] Honourable Congressman, I think that, knowing Hungarian legislation, there has been a clear financial abuse on this issue. I suggest you hand over your legal skills to the people you met in that building and protect them from the damage you did there at Karcag, Táncsics körút 15. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-04-20-8	Dear Parliament, Mr László Lukács asked to speak on a personal basis. According to the house rules, you can call me right now.
u2015-04-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On account of my personal concerns, I would like to respond to the otherwise grievances that will hopefully not be protected by Secretary of State Tállai under his immunity. What you've said is completely unfounded, and a political scam you're doing in this case. This property, Táncsics körút 15. is a large tenement house, in which we can say there are several offices, including the office of the municipality, which is rented by this company. And by the way, it was a baby dress shop, and there were other stores before. On the other side of the property there are four lawyers' offices, which were established in 1989 by the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Bar Association. So he didn't really have any connection. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: It has as much to do with him as Mihály Varga! János Lázár: It is better to be careful with the claws!]] For my part, I refuse to have any assignment with the company. Such information about the company, what you said, is without any basis. [[Noise.]] Mr. Secretary of State of Tallas, you can excuse yourself now. Of course, you will be judged for your statements, not only by the voters, but also by the Hungarian Republic, the court of Hungary, for which you will be responsible, because there is simply one address for these offices. The remaining four colleagues who are at the law firm are equally responsible for this. So you're saying that those people, those honest citizens of Karcag, are responsible for this. I think what you're saying is a despicable slander! [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] For my part, I refuse, and as loudly as you try to smear this problem, this is the brokerage scandal of Fidesz, this fidesz decade-old financial scam! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Is this part of personal involvement?]]
u2015-04-20-10	Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner came forward on a case-by-case basis. If it's about personal involvement, you can tell me if you don't, I'm gonna take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-11	Mr. President. I would like to point out that the Secretary of State made a statement that one of our fellow Members was virtually accused of committing a crime, since plural was the second person to make the statement that my fellow Member had taken steps with someone referring to a different crime. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Is it okay to suspect Varga and Potters?]] Therefore, I would like to propose, in order of business, Mr President, that you order the sitting of the House Committee, when we will examine the words of the Secretary of State, and we will ask what facts he will state. I'm convinced that Mr. Secretary of State was abducted by anger, and he didn't mean it either. It was a thoughtless statement, but we would like to give you the opportunity to wash. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-12	I understand the announcement. I'm gonna make a decision by the house rules, and I'm gonna tell you that by the end of the day. We'll get back to work. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that with greater composure, because it's only 12:30 - what happens at 2:30? [[Noise, interruptions.]] Member Gergely Bárándy, MSZP:. On European Values has applied for a pre-meeting address. Congressman Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As Mr President said, we know well that the Holocaust, the soa, began with only exclusional words, continued with Jewish laws, and finally reached the planned, operational, racial genocide, in which hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots and millions of our European citizens lost their lives in the death camps. In addition to bowing with the utmost respect to the victims and survivors, in addition to preserving their memory, let us stop the first steps of the road to such phenomena by the force of joint protest and resistance. In 2011 László Fat said that we should warn ourselves. With ordinary segregation, verbal violence, we can also take the path that sometimes is not easy to recognize is leading in the wrong direction, from which it is difficult to turn back and which has led in the past to Auschwitz. Exclusion and disenfranchisation are not only a threat to the individual, but also a threat to society, strangle, make democracy impossible, tear the nation apart. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.30]] Dear Parliament, It's not enough for us to remember and remember. Anyone who does this has done nothing more than a noble gesture. Well, you can and you must. We, the members of the Parliament, have a high responsibility in making sure that it doesn't happen again. Each faction and every Member must decide whether to pursue or oppose our common European values. And, yes, you have to decide whether those who wish to join the anti-Semites really need to look for a different party, and not only at the level of words, but at the level of actions that can be proven. Because the faction that tolerates in its ranks a cudar frat who mocks the victims of the Holocaust, the victims of the Arrow Terror, spitting in the shoes on the shore of the Danube, and considers all this to be so arranged that it obliges the affected to bring a flower to the top of the spit, until then it is untrue and hypocritical to distance itself from the anti-Semites. It refers to unreliable and hypocritical European values. The most important of our common European values is the Charter of Human Rights, one of the first to mention the prohibition of racial and religious discrimination, respect for human dignity, freedom and protection of minorities. And as the wise saying goes, an accomplice who is mute. Cinkos, who just keeps his head down and sneaks. Cinkos who won't say it out loud that he won't take it. Zincos, who does not force open confessions on all political decision-makers, how he feels about our shared human and European values at the time. In 2013, István Jakab, president of the meeting, said the following two sentences: "Europe will be an increasingly colourful continent, both ethnically and culturally. European citizens learn to accept and respect each other. This provides a good basis for our common European values, the universal system of European rights, and the values of love and acceptance. Mr. Vice President is right. Hungary's accession to the European Union was based on a conscious choice of value and responsibility. That these universal human rights, that we all respect our common European values, must be declared from time to time. It is not enough to say that with our accession we have once made faith in these things, and it is alive today. When one party's representative throws the flag of the European Union out of the window, and the two-thirds governing party, instead of punishing it, doesn't even bring it back there, and, to confirm, even banishes the European Union flag from the facade of the House of Representatives, making this action effective, we certainly have work to do. I note that today there is a parliamentary party that has never believed in European values. CHAPTER XX Analyzing the history of the century, we need to see that when they did not realize that political forces that became more serious began to think and function differently, the process ended in tragedy. We need a common foundation that we all respect. And yes, as I said, we must declare it. We have therefore presented a political statement on European values. We ask all Members to put faith together in what they say today and in the future, again and again, so that what happened in the death camps cannot be repeated ever, ever, ever. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to react. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, On 16 April, we jointly remembered the victims of the Holocaust in Hungary. On this Memorial Day several political forces and political parties attended the commemorations, several members of the Parliament and members of the government participated in these. Some of the Members of the Parliament were indeed missing from there. I think it is appropriate to remember the Memorial Day of 16 April here, in the walls of the Parliament. However, Mr President, he made comments that would slightly disrupt the unity of this commemoration. To be honest, I thought it was time for the Hungarian Socialist Party to distance itself from the religious desecration of Tibor Szanyi, the MEP of the MSZP. As you may remember - and I'm sure you will remember, because even a statement was published by the MSZP in this case - Tibor Szanyi posted a nude photo on his Facebook page, thereby committing religious abuse. At that time, the MSZP officially reacted that it did not want to deal with the matter until the Tapolca election. Well, the election in Tapolca is over. When the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party spoke in Parliament for the protection of European values, some of us thought to state the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party on the action of their MEP. Because it really is as Gergely Bárándy said, things started with words, and words are as dangerous as actions. In this case, too, the words show that a Member of the MSZP does not respect the religion of others. And this is unacceptable. So I had to say all of this together because in the previous speech of the Socialist Party, in addition to the memorial day of the victims of the Holocaust in Hungary, he gave two more slaps to two other parliamentary parties. It would not be necessary to respond if the MSZP did not tolerate religious abusers in its own ranks. That's why I'm asking you, please. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Will you sign or not sign?]] I ask you to do something about Tibor Szanyi in the spirit of the European values you have summoned. Because what you're doing is unacceptable. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Aren't you ashamed?]] He's sending Goy bikers to Brussels, calling for a demonstration against Angela Merkel, demanding the Szekler flag removed from Parliament, and that's the last thing he did, this religious abuser has really been the bottom of it all, so to speak. I think that if you respect European values, Tibor Szanyi has no place in public life. I cannot judge whether it has a place in the European Parliament; rather, it should be judged by the Members of the European Parliament, but I do not think that this Member has a place in Hungarian public life. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It wasn't about Tibor Szanyi before the agenda. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame on you!]] Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the Council, KDNP: in the case of DRB-bank, applied for a pre-meeting address. Mr. Congressman, please.
u2015-04-20-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In recent months, broker scandals have damaged thousands of clients. In the case of Buda-Cash, almost HUF 100 billion was lost, including the funds of individuals, municipalities, NGOs, churches and businesses belonging to the Regional Banking Group in South Transdanubia. In addition to local authorities, the source of regional and municipal associations has also been a victim of this brokerage scandal in many places. In the Buda-Cash case, which broke out two months ago, a total of 84 municipalities were stuck, 67 of the municipalities concerned were in a hopeless situation, as all the local government's funds and all the resources were managed by the DRB banking group. This caused them immediate liquidity problems by March. Dear House, The government didn't stand by and watch the situation. Although the responsibility of the State did not exist for the municipalities concerned in the Buda-Cash case, the Government has shown solidarity with the victims. In order to help the settlements in distress, the government, by decision of 4 March, provided 67 municipalities with an emergency aid of HUF 250 million to enable them to pay the aids, salaries and public employment wages in February by deadline. Thanks to this emergency aid, the affected settlements could breathe for a short time. In view of the crisis situation, the government set up a working group to assess the financial situation of the municipalities, after which the working group made a proposal to the government, and on this basis a proposal was made by the government last week. Further measures have been taken, since, in addition to the Parliament's Committee on Budgets, a subcommittee has been established to investigate the circumstances of the brokerage scandal. In addition, active legislative work has been launched in respect of fair and equitable compensation. [[11.40]] Dear Secretary of State, My constituency, South Somogy, is also deeply involved in the DRB case, as half of the settlements are trapped in their savings. Of these municipalities, 24 municipalities received emergency aid in March. Mayors of the affected settlements are confident that their municipal resources and savings trapped at the DRB bank will soon be returned, as without help, the operation of the settlements would be in danger. It is comforting to know that within days, according to the government's decision on Wednesday last week, the money granted by the government to these municipalities may be in the accounts of the municipalities. It is a good thing that the compensation process has started quickly. This has already been done for people, individuals, farmers, civil society organisations and churches, and in the case of municipalities it can happen within days. Dear Secretary of State, In my constituency, in the southern Somogy region based in Barcs, a lot of voters, farmers and NGOs contacted me with their thanks for the rapid compensation. In addition, many mayors have asked and indicated that I should convey to the government their thanks for the government's rapid and effective response to their tragedy. In this disadvantaged area, the government has helped tens of thousands of families and the municipalities representing them quickly, efficiently and correctly. The damage to small regional partnerships and many running European Union applications remains to be recovered. I ask the honourable Government to continue to assist in the final resolution of these matters, as this will solve the development and functioning of the settlements and the region. Thank you once again for your support to the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, and I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to convey our thanks to the Government and to ask you to find a solution to the remaining problems. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-20-18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás speaks.
u2015-04-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the collapse of the Buda-Cash Broker house affected not only private individuals and not only financial investors, but also local governments that led their account in the former savings cooperatives, which were owned by the Buda-Cash Broker House. When the authorisation for activity was withdrawn, these accounts also became unavailable, so the management of municipalities was indeed uncertain for a few days. This situation was felt, felt by the government, and as a first step, the Treasury transferred the aids and the funding that started after the 25th of February, so at least these funds didn't get stuck with the account managers. It was very important that everyone received the payments in time, so the Treasury directly transferred the wages, and the municipalities in which the net funding would not have been sufficient to pay the current wages and aid were actually paid an advance of HUF 244.7 million in order to meet their obligations. It was very important that the Treasury paid directly on the one hand and, on the other hand, it had to be watched that the wages were not paid to the account holders on their retail account at the DRB, but were secured by post, so we sent the payment to everyone via the post office. Thank you for the post office, who organized the extra load: they provided both open hours and staff with assistance to ensure that there was no slippage. Following the first aid, with regard to the problems of payment of wages, it was obvious that we had to look at how we would proceed and what the local authorities would have to do. Therefore, on the one hand, we asked everyone to choose a new managing financial institution and to open a new current account. By now, the Treasury has been able to make the transfers. On the other hand, we examined how much money and what money was put in the accounts of the DRB banking group. It turned out that the municipal resources related to the operation amounted to HUF 2.1 billion, and according to the April government meeting, 84 municipalities received this HUF 2.1 billion in the form of government decisions, which was or should have been available in their current account. There were municipalities, five municipalities, for whom the advance has already provided the full amount, the others received additional money. They received a total of HUF 1.2 billion in support of the second round decision. Thus, all municipalities and the 84 municipalities, which managed their current accounts at the DRB as the managing bank, can continue to operate, the necessary operating conditions are available. We also assess and assess the additional resources that have been held in there, for example in the accounts of the European Union's proposals or in the accounts held by various associations or companies. The investigation of this is ongoing. Indeed, we had to act quickly, and I believe that we have been able to push the municipalities through this difficult situation by effective and meaningful measures. It should be noted that as of 3 July this year, the Deposit Insurance Fund will not only provide or provide compensation for individuals, but also for local government accounts up to EUR 500 000, so it is not expected that if such an unfortunate event occurs again, the State will be able to do well for these accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Richárd Hörcsik applied for a pre-meeting speech, Mr Fidesz:.Kecskere cabbage? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember the Tavares report adopted by the European Parliament, which, I believe, was one of the most cynical, outrageous political products of the previous government cycle, which came from the European Union. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not quite so!]] What we had only guessed at the date of the report was confirmed later: the above-mentioned Member of the European Parliament prepared a report on Hungary - quoted in a quotation sign - by asking only left-wing representatives, the former prominents of socialist governance, which lasted from 2002 to 2010. We saw that there was no shortage of candidates when the report was drawn up, as many people said all the unsubstantiated slander and criticism in the pen. And we saw how they tried to make Hungary impossible just to gain their own daily political benefits. But the Hungarian people were not interested in this, because 2014 came, in which three elections took place in Hungary. We all know the scale well, and we all know it before Europe. We can safely say that the European campaign of the Hungarian left was a failure, and all policies that require help from foreign mercenaries, if you will, and are unable to listen to the Hungarian people, are doomed to failure. I believe that everyone in Hungary knows and sees this - but not in Brussels. The events of recent weeks clearly show that, despite good political relations on the surface, the Union continues to work actively against the Hungarian government. This started with the Commission attacking the Hungarian government's policy on reducing the costs. It seems that they simply cannot accept that a government of a nation state should side with its elected citizens against international capital. And it can also be seen that we have also seen how the Hungarian left received this with excruciating gloat. [[11.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, We thought that Hungary's run would end. However, this was not the case, as it was recently announced that Altus would carry out an analysis and evaluation of the planning documents of the 2014-2020 development policy cycle, and that the mandate would also cover the partnership agreement and operational programmes forming the backbone of development policy. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We know that this company is clearly part of Ferenc Gyurcsány's interest. It is therefore clear that the European Commission has entrusted Ference Gyurcsány to comment on the period of the current government; the president of a opposition party who was the former Hungarian Prime Minister, who, according to his own declaration, lied not only in the eyes of the entire Hungarian nation, but also in the eyes of his allies in Europe; the prominent person of the left who had previously fought to withdraw all European Union money from Hungary, because they may thus expel the civilian government elected in democratic competition. I believe that, after this, the government cannot expect the slightest sign of correctness from Gyurcsány, but I think that neither does Hungary. My colleague Lajos Kósa is right, this case is exactly as if Gábor Demszky was entrusted or entrusted with the control of Metro 4's investment. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Nobody asked for that! Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it cannot be legitimate and that the investigative document that is made out of political motivation for order cannot be valid. I think that it is the job of every responsible Hungarian politician to inform the European Commission that their decision is unacceptable. From the fact that Hungarian development policy is subject to a fair, factual examination, I think that we do not go ahead and do not have to hold it. But what is unacceptable to us is the opinion of Ferenc Gyurcsány as a dictatorship of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, We respectfully ask the European Commission, the European Union, not to leave cabbage to the goat. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-23	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to reassure my fellow Members and the Parliament that the Hungarian Government is also facing all investigations in relation to the development policy of the European Union, and that anyone can examine anything in Hungary at any time. We do not see any obstacle to the fact that the European Union, in relation to the accounting of the period 2007-13, is also subjecting the country to much more and more detailed scrutiny than it currently is, given the fact that we also believe that there is plenty to look at between 2007-10 and we can even provide a good example of how in 2012, 2013 and 2014 we managed to save the country from losing a very significant part of the HUF 8200 billion available. I would like to tell you that, before 2010, payments from this European Union development policy were essentially barely made. In many cases, those payments did not stand the test of publicity and transparency. As far as the facts are concerned, they are indeed exciting, my honourable fellow Member. [[Zoltán Grimlock: the ceiling won't break!]] The news has come to Hungary that the European Commission has commissioned Ference Gyurcsány and his company to supervise Hungary. A man whose history books, if not more, will surely be remembered when he said that we lied at night, lied during the day; we lied in the morning, noon, evening, perhaps the literal quote says so. It is entrusted to a man who himself claims to have lied in the morning, noon and evening. This is not frivolous, fellow Members, because the European Union's Regional Directorate-General has reportedly given a mandate of EUR 5 million to Altus Zrt., which, according to Hungarian records, has four employees, and these four will have to give an objective opinion on the Hungarian development policy system. It is still unclear that this is some kind of juda money, given the inexorable merit of Ferenc Gyurcsány in the international labour movement. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and perhaps the former Prime Minister is preparing his retirement, which requires this EUR 5 million, or we must take this phenomenon seriously, and we must prepare that at some point, with a briefcase, the Prime Minister's dear wife, Mrs Klára Dobrev, expert in development policy, will be involved in the State Secretary for Development and there will start investigations and audits on behalf of the European Union. [[Sándor Burány:...Visztő Orbán's companies!]] Firstly, I think the European Union has not considered the decision. We will inform the European Commission that you must have missed the fact that Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány is still an active public figure and is involved in party politics. I think that... [[Dr. András Schiffer: And whose responsibility is that?]] My apologies, my fellow Member, if you would listen to me, I would be honored. I think that the European Commission, from a public figure involved in active party politics, from former Prime Minister, who, at times, seems to pollute Hungarian public life in an insulted state, so as not to mention any other state, at times. [[Dr. András Schiffer's name.]] Now, how can the European Commission expect such a public figure to give an objective opinion on the economic and social situation of Hungary or on the state of play of development policy. It is unclear why this is reported to be worth EUR 5 million. But I assure you, besides Hungary, the control of Bulgaria was entrusted to Altus Zrt. for mysterious reasons. There's probably something about this that we don't know about, or at least by my age I can't have these historical experiences and knowledge that connects Altus Zrt. with Bulgaria. In any case, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this company, Altus Zrt., still has two fantastic employees, a Péter Heil, who was the deputy president of the National Development Agency, a trusted colleague of Prime Minister Gyurcsány, and a former colleague of Valér Jobbágy, who also did his work at the National Development Agency and the National Development Office, as well as at the former Prime Minister's Office. I wouldn't be surprised if these people were active or I wasn't surprised by the news that ideas about Hungary should be given about what needs to be investigated, what cases should be brought up. Interestingly, the proposals need to be identified, since the European Commission is under scrutiny for some mysterious reason, and I would not be surprised if Mr Péter Heil and Mr Valér Jobbágy gave the idea to the regional committee, which is why they are supposed to receive EUR 5 million to report on Hungary and perhaps also to encourage the European Commission to press charges. In my view, it is in the interest of the European Union and the Commission not to damage its credibility and authority in Hungary. If the European Commission wants to be taken seriously, we will ask that this decision be reviewed. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-24	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the following Members and Members have asked to speak after today's agenda: László Varju, independent; Ildikó Novák, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Ander, Balázs; Vágó Sebestyén, Jobbik; Bangóné Borbély, Ildikó, MSZP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Magyar Zoltán, Jobbik; András Schiffer, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Szél Bernadett, LMP; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; László Varga, MSZP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:56 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr István Tukacs K/4399. Mr Varga, Minister for National Economy, the motion was rejected. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Lavina in the theatre berkek? About the Boycott of the National Theatre Meeting in Pécs. It's for the congressman. Here.
u2015-04-20-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am somewhat disappointed that Parliamentary Member Peter Hoppál will not answer my question in Pécs, but I may be able to get an answer. The National Theatre Meeting of Pécs has been the most important event of the Hungarian theatre profession since 2001, which is held in the wonderful city of Pécs, and is also the number one cultural event of Pécs. This prestigious professional event was also covered by politics, after the professional owners of the theatre survey, the Hungarian Theatre Society and the Hungarian Theatre Society, led by Vidnyánszky Attila, did not accept the candidate of the Guild of Criticals, Judit Csáki, in the composition of the POSZT. Then the Theatre Critics' Guild quit the Hungarian Theatre Society. The Örkény Theatre has also quit the Hungarian Theatre Society, and Örkény's performances are no longer involved in the competition. Like the Örkény Theatre, two other companies, Stereo Akt and Sputnik Shipping Company, did not participate in the competition program of the Pécs meeting. [[12.00]] Both performances are the work of independent theater freelancers, start-up directors, university creators. After discarding Judit Csáki's nomination, the Hungarian Theatre Society and the Hungarian Teatre Society asked Andrea Zsigmond to be the colour critic of the additional jury. But the famous drama critic, Andrea Szigmond, then canceled the request. The avalanche has not stopped, several performances have left the competition program, supported by hundreds of famous people, actors, directors, critics, as they said: with our boycott, we want to draw attention to the opaque and unprofessional decision of the owners of the public poszt. Dear Secretary of State, My questions: on what basis do you decide on personal matters? Who gives the instructions and these instructions are carried out on a professional or political basis? The winners of the state cultural policy in the theatre are the National Theatre led by Attila Vidnyánszky and the Opera House led by Szilveszter Ókovács. Is the Ministry planning on redeploying budget resources? For what reason do you want to destroy a 14-year-old professional festival? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr: Answer this! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-20-26	With all due respect, I'd like everyone to respect the time frame of the house rules. Now, Mr. Secretary of State will answer. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As a Pécsi, I think that Congressman is perfectly aware that the National Theatre Meeting in Pécs is organised not by the State, but by the Ministry, but by the National Theatre Festival in Pécs Public Use Nonprofit Kft. So neither the government, nor our ministry, nor its background institution, is its owner, nor its influence. As you well know, 66.8 percent of the city of Pécs, Pécs county-righted town, is the owner of this organizing company. The Hungarian Theatre Society and the Hungarian Theatre Society own 16.6.0% of the others. From now on, the government has had one task in this matter for years or decades, to provide support for the organisation of the festival. The government has done this in previous years, and the government has done it now. From now on, he won't interfere in any kind of operational business. You know very well, you just withheld from the question that long-established tradition or internal custom, agreement that on certain issues the two minority owners decide: selection of selections, referral of judges, invitation of a guest of honor, and could still be classified. These data have been available for years in public forums. Therefore, in these questions, they decided on the basis of which they did so, and they should be asked. This process has been going on for years, decades. What we have now and how we have developed, there is no government decision, no involvement, because that is not what is happening. Here are the three actors who own this cft., or who make the decisions, who can justify their steps from a professional point of view. In any case, since we consider this meeting to be important, we want it to be as prestigious as possible, we want it to be as big a team as possible, and everyone remembers the quality of this meeting. That is why we have provided and will ensure the support. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "What is a Hungarian worth? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During the past few days, they have been informed of the shocking news of the 15th century. teachers and students of district Neptun Street primary school that KLIK, in agreement with the competent municipality, plans to abolish their school without successor. Unfortunately, the fate of this prestigious institution is not unprecedented, as we have received news from all over the country that it is based solely on economic considerations that they decide to unite and terminate public education institutions, despite the fierce protests of teachers, students and parents. Having understood the difficult financial situation of the municipalities operating the institutions, we must say that in all the above cases it is common that the reorganisations cannot be supported by professional reasons and that the authorities of the managing CLIK cannot refer to any professional argument on the information provided to parents. The Neptune School, mentioned as an example, has a large number of children with special educational needs. For them, it is especially important to have a small class community, a familiar, homely environment. By ending the school, these children lose all of this, along with teachers who, in the parents' view, did outstanding professional work and provided a loving environment. 'Cause let's face it, it's not just for the local government to save money, but KLIK is also saving the wages of redundant teachers. Dear Secretary of State, Please give a clear answer as to the technical reasons for closing Neptun School. And please also answer whether it is true that the termination of Neptune School is really necessary because its building has already been promised to the Chinese school in Budapest. I ask for a clear answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-30	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, We are talking about a procedure in which a decision has not yet been made. This is an institution where maintenance and operation are separated. The district municipality is the owner of the property, the district municipality is the one that operates the school building itself, and KLIK, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre is the one who is the maintainer, so the institution is responsible for and directs the professional work of the school. So these two parts of the school's life are split into two, and the municipality - as far as I know - came to KLIK a request of the kind that the municipality is not saturated at all, since it is 43 per cent charged. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Because we're talking about children with snips!]] He wants to use a school building for something else. You could have 532 people in this school, but there's a lot less than 300 people in this school. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Sni children are counted by multiple times!]] According to current statistics. So this is a school that is far from exploiting the capacity that lies in this building. This is why the municipality intends to use this building for some other purpose. We, on the one hand, also consider it appropriate, and on the other, because the law requires - the 2011 CXC on public education. Law 83. § 4 - We have launched consultations, as well as a targeted representative, in which we listen to their opinions with parents, teachers, student self-government and obviously with the local government, and then any kind of decision can be made, which, in turn, has certain guarantees, because obviously children, especially children with sniping, need to be thought of in the first place. Obviously, their relationship, their studies will be continuous in any case, no matter what happens, no matter what the final decision, and obviously the work of teachers is also needed. But I would like to stress that no decision on this issue was taken on the part of the KLIK, on the part of the government, only because the municipality made this proposal on the property. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: That's not true! György Szilágyi: Tamás László!]]
u2015-04-20-32	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How long will you poison the smelly road chemical deposits in Budapest? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I wanted to ask my question as a relatively topical environmental question, the past of which, the fact that this goes back a long time, does not mean that it should not be dealt with today, and that today's environmental administration would not have its primary task today. In the middle of Budapest, at the meeting of Kispest, Ferencváros and Pesterzsébet, 2 thousand tons of hazardous waste poisons the soil, water, air, seriously endangering the wildlife of the Danube and, above all, the population of the area. Hundreds of broken, freaked barrels, a lot of poison, fire, explosion and poisoning on 11 acres. According to press reports, the previously installed cleaning system is down, the pumps are gone, the hazardous materials are released into the environment unchecked. This is not happening in an African banana republic, but in Central Europe, Hungary, the capital of Hungary, for at least a decade continuously and continuously in the centre of the capital, while the competent authorities knew about this matter. Suddenly, it would be difficult to calculate how many EU and domestic environmental legislation, the sections of the Btk. concerning environmental damage, the EU environmental programme and the environmental principle are violated, and obviously the responsibility of the environmental administration arises here. I would ask the Secretary of State what the government is doing at the moment to eliminate the emergency that poses a serious environmental and health risk without delay. Will the competent minister or anyone in the government take responsibility for not dealing with this case, which has been known for the past five years, and have not eliminated the dangers of this? [[12.10]] Is there sufficient resources in the environmental remediation fund or other separate accounts to deal with this case? I was wondering if anyone in the government feels responsible for the fact that a lot of the money collected from various environmental charges is not spent on the purpose for which they are paid and there is no environmental damage control. That's what I'm waiting for the Secretary of State to answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-34	Thank you. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the basis of the principles laid down in the Act on the Protection of the Environment, the Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. and its successor shall be responsible for the development of an environmental emergency or for the environmental damage left behind. The company is currently in liquidation, the court has not closed the proceedings since 2007 and has not yet fulfilled the duties imposed by the Authority's decision on the disposal of hazardous waste. In order to promote the case, the Authority has used all possible legal instruments and has initiated criminal proceedings in addition to the imposition of a fine on the grounds that there is a reasonable suspicion of a breach of the waste management system. Honourable Congressman, In answer to your question, no, the government does not take responsibility for the missed measures, because there was no such thing. However, in government power, we will examine how the prolonged winding-up procedure could be completed and closed as soon as possible and how the problem can be addressed in order to eliminate environmental damage, taking into account the polluter-pays principle. In addition, the possibility of using EU funds for 2014-2020 will be assessed. I would like to inform the Member that, under the national environmental remediation programme, the government has spent nearly HUF 20 billion a year since 2010 on public liability remediation tasks. As far as the budget allows, we would like to continue this work. In the planning of the 2016 budget, we will submit to the government the re-uploading of this framework. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Emergency situation! You have to act, not examine.]]
u2015-04-20-36	Dear Parliament, Mr Vinnai Győző, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the typical problems of domestic education, including higher education, is that it focuses on theoretical knowledge. We often hear, as a criticism of the preparedness of young professionals, that when they get into a job with a fresh degree in their pockets where practical skills are essential, perhaps the management of practitioners is essential, they face fundamental difficulties, and all those who have spent a long time gaining practical experience can rightly look young graduates in the eye by not knowing the practical activities they should be managing. The young learners received the opportunity of dual training with keen interest: they see that it is worth getting involved, learning about the life of a work organisation, knowledge and experience of the opportunities offered by the chosen profession, what knowledge they should look for, whether tailor-made or otherwise; they can earn income, perhaps find their future workplace in this way. Not least, it also pays to the host institution because it will be easier for you to find the staff you want to work with later. This explains the growing interest of companies in the form of training, and this form fits well with the government's measures to improve the employment of young people. Dear Secretary of State, Nevertheless, there may be doubts and questions in young people. Such a question may be whether participation in dual training is not at the expense of the theoretical knowledge that can be acquired. Does the partner company of higher education, the technical technology used there, and the practical training there provide them with competitive knowledge? Will they stand a chance if an enterprise that can choose from better professionals will announce a job application? Mr. Secretary. What can you tell us to reassure them? What guarantees a high level of competitive knowledge in dual training? Where are you? Did government measures improve the employment of young people bring results? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-38	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has the floor.
u2015-04-20-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Dual training has been a great success, and I think everyone has seen that in higher education too, many have applied for this special, practice-oriented form of training. 21 higher education institutions launched such training - which was decided by the Dual Training Council in January - for a total of 76 initial education courses. There are very different kinds, including technical, economic, agricultural and other training. It is important to introduce this training because, according to young people and young people themselves, it is one of the greatest difficulties in finding a job for young people that there is no experience in their CVs, there is no mention of it, which is why employers do not hire them. Therefore, it is important that they acquire this practical training during their studies, acquire such practical knowledge, carry out project activities, or otherwise have work experience, thereby improving their chances of finding a job. In this connection, the Member asked in his last sentence how the data series on youth unemployment had been developed in recent years. We can say that from the 15-24-year-olds, the employment rate has shown an increase of 29 thousand over the past four years, and youth unemployment has fallen from the previous 30 percent to 19 percent. This is a very significant reduction, especially if we compare it with 19 percent of the Hungarian youth unemployment in Europe on average is 21 percent. There are emerging countries, such as Greece with 51 per cent youth unemployment, Spain with 50 per cent youth unemployment, Croatia with 46 per cent youth unemployment and Italy with 42 per cent youth unemployment. We had several programmes: the first job guarantee scheme, support for summer student employment, the programme to help young people become entrepreneurs, the internship programme for skilled young people or the job protection action plan; the latter alone helped 150,000 young people under the age of 25 to keep or find their jobs. But we can also mention the Youth Guarantee Programme, which we hope will help 180 thousand young people in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-40	Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Will there be electric power to Bosnyák Square? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Bosnyák Square is the capital of XIV. Its district, Zugló, is one of the most important transport hubs, as here the road of King Lajos Nagy meets Thököly Road, and one of the directions of the traffic coming in from the M3 is this space. The M4 metro line, originally known as the South Buda-Rákospalota metro line, could have built the link between the Keleti railway station and Bosnyák tér, but its implementation was postponed years ago. Minister for Development Miklós Seszták admitted in February 2015 that the extension of the M4 metro line is not expected in the near future. Zugló is one of Budapest's largest districts, as most people live here on the Pest side, with over 120,000 people living in the district. Bosnyák Square is the center of the district, where significant improvements are being made this year. One of the ideas of the district municipality is that a real city centre should be created here with a new local administrative centre, but this requires a good public transport connection. Years ago, the possibility arose that instead of building the second section of the metro, the link between Keleti Railway Station and Bosnyák Square should be resolved by building a high-speed line on Thököly Road. With the extension of the tram line, we could also reach Rákospalota. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the construction of the high-speed line between Keleti Railway Station and Bosnyák tér is one of the plans from an EU source. If so, when is this expected to be accomplished? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-42	Thank you very much. State Secretary Major will answer the question. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The extension of subway 4, as you know, is a 12- to 15-year-old story. By the way, before 2010, I myself and my fellow Members introduced a legislative amendment to take the metro on one side to Zuglo and on the other side to the Flower Market. This was beaten by you at the time, claiming that the investment cost was extremely high. [[12.20]] This has not changed today, and therefore the extension of metro line 4 as a metro line is not expected in the near future. At the same time, travel needs justify - and you are absolutely right about that - the creation of a surface-bound track connection between New Palace and downtown within a few years of much less cost. The project will also play a significant role in ensuring the return and sustainability of the already built subway section 4, as it carries passengers on it. At the end of March, the government decision establishing the possibility of supporting the project included this development as an investment under the urban and suburban transport priorities of the Integrated Transport Operational Programme. The capital will receive approximately HUF 180 billion out of the 330 billion allocated to it, specifically for the development of public transport between 2014 and 2020. The Tököly út-Zugló-Újpalota tram line will also be built from the support. According to the government's decision, of course, the preparation of the licensing and export plans begins first, and then the Metropolitan Municipality that carried out the investment can [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to make a commitment to the timetable for implementation, which will be achieved by 2020 at the latest. Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-44	Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, whether they will restore the terminated classes at the hospital in Körmend and Celldömölk? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2015-04-20-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Three years ago, Fidesz stopped obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in Körmend with a single stroke of pen, as active internal medicine and active surgery were closed in Celldömölk. Government propaganda is trying to distort reality, but people living in the countryside, including the Vas County, are constantly confronted with the worsening health situation. I find it incredibly cynical that, after the measures mentioned above, you are talking about unprecedented improvements in the field of health. While in opposition they raised their voice against the devastating steps of their predecessors in the countryside, in recent years they have taken measures that are integral to the ranks of socialist-liberal governments. Jobbik protested with all possible means against layoffs, in addition to our parliamentary speeches, we organized a demonstration for the hospital in Körmend and Celldömölk, and we also collected signatures in Körmend. The people in the region stood almost unanimously for the institution, five thousand signed the sheets in a very short time, but the government ignored their opinion. The investments announced during last year's campaign with a big chandelier were not made in Körmend as promised. After that, we cannot expect much good, even though the restoration of the terminated classes would be essential both in the hospital in Körmend and in Celldömölk. In order to ensure safe care for patients, the machinery park of rescue stations in the region should also be expanded and modernised as a matter of urgency. We have also heard serious promises in this area, which have not been fulfilled. The rescue station in Celldömölk has been promised ambulance for a long time, but it still has not arrived, but Szentgotthárd's rescue station would also need a new ambulance, even for a long distance from the county seat. Dear Secretary of State, In response to my last oral question on the subject, he was wrong, and I trust it will be different this time. Will the classes eliminated be restored to Körmenden and Celldömölk? Can we expect improvements on county rescue stations? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-46	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd like to start with the last question and go backwards. As regards the issue of rescue stations, two rescue units currently serve at the rescue station in Celldömölk, Kemenesalja. In 2013, the rescue station developed service hours, and after the analysis of the tasks, the start of the 12-hour car was adapted to the needs. The tasks were monitored by the National Rescue Service, so in 2014 a new Volkswagen Crafter ambulance of type B was served at the rescue station. Also last year, a new Mercedes Sprinter type C ambulance car was in service at the rescue station in Körmend, and a new 4×4 Mercedes Sprinter backup truck in Szentgotthárd. The exchange of casecars is planned from the next ambulance distribution, which is still available, but in addition to the renewal of the car park, the dynamics of the rescue station in Szentgotthárd will be started in the framework of an EU project, which means energy modernisation. The point is, this rescue station is being renovated. The investment will reduce operating costs, but more importantly, the purchase of automatic garage gates and street gates will speed up the exit and the arrival to the patient will take a shorter time. As far as the hospital is concerned, the restructuring and integration of the hospital in Körmend and Celldömölk, like other hospitals, took place with careful preparation for quality patient care. Prior to the change of structure, the circle provided active care in the professions of internal medicine, surgery and obstetrics, but it did not have the necessary conditions for the safe continuation of the task, the use of beds was low, and the more complex cases were still directed towards higher care centres in the case of internal medicine. The number of births per year was also very low, significantly below the number of births indicated as necessary by the professional college to maintain inpatient care. Just for the patient safety aspects referred to by the Member [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Changes have been made, gynaecological activity can be continued as a one-day surgical treatment. And I think we'll still have time to get back to Celldömölk. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-48	Dear Parliament, Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Why do they want to close schools? It's an address. Congressman, here you go.
u2015-04-20-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It came out of the sky as a lightning strike that they wanted to close the 15th century. district Neptune Elementary School. Without history, the faculty was informed of this on Friday, April 10th. On 14 April, an extraordinary parent-teacher meeting was held, where the director of the KLIK district and the Fidesz MP Tamás László announced to worried parents that the institution would cease in its current form, and that the institution would be absorbed into another school. The announcement shocked the teachers and parents, just like the students. The Neptun Elementary School is a regional school, the popular school of the district, not an average educational institution, but the second home of teachers and students, they teach English and German at an elevated level, they achieve serious results in competitions, they also obtained the eco-school qualification. Of the 286 students who study here, 65 have special educational needs. In his reply to my fellow Member, he already pointed out that this 286 is much less than the 600 who could be accepted, but he did not say that these 65 students with special educational needs should be counted as 3 under the executive decree of the Public Education Act. That way, the number that Secretary of State mentioned doesn't come out. Where else will these students receive this education? Raoul Wallenberg Secondary School and Vocational School are in a similar situation, and they have also just learned that they will close their institution. 1200 students from the primary institution of health training can find another school for themselves. Dear Secretary of State, Why do we have to announce in mid-April, shortly before the end of the school year, in the middle of the textbook ordering process and a few days before their school recordings, that the school will be terminated? It's really more important to re-enact this building. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Like it's in the best interest of the students? What does the KLIK assist you with? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-04-20-50	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has the floor.
u2015-04-20-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Any kind of restructuring and prior consultation has a legal deadline, and decisions must be taken by the end of May, and any kind of consultation prior to any decision will therefore be launched at the beginning of April. No decision has been taken on either issue, Mr honourable Member, nor on item XV. district or VIII. in district cases, it is a kind of decision prevention and a series of constitutive consultations affecting the opinion of the maintainer, the operator. The law states that parents, students and teachers must be consulted in this case, and that is when the final position is reached. We talked about this earlier, so I can only say briefly that, in the case of the Neptune Street School, the municipality, as operator, has indicated that because of the number of seats... - you were talking about funding, a child with a particular educational needs must be counted as more, but in the same space as a seat that is used. You said 286, I know 289 students who go there and have a capacity of 572 people. [[12.30]] Thus comes the saturation of about 43 per cent, below 50 per cent of this school, which is why this consultation was launched by the municipality itself, and obviously also part of the KLIK. So, so much for one of the buildings. The other is also subject to preliminary consultations. You know that there is a very big development, there is a higher education development in progress, also to the right of the school, and also to the left. Obviously, everyone can see how the surrounding buildings are being renovated there. This is about the development of a higher education institution in the neighbourhood of a secondary institution and the consultation on how this development can be extended and when a higher education institution from the building of a secondary institution will sooner or later become a higher education institution. So it also remains within the education system, but in both cases [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I say, we are talking about preliminary consultations with parents, students, teachers, so that everyone has a continuous relationship, students must take care of the place of teachers in the first place, but in any case also the place of teachers. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-52	Dear Parliament, Member Pál Völner, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: "Predictive, preventive flood protection measures are important. Will the main flood protection line of the Komárom-Almásütő continue to extend the Tatái dam system to Esztergom? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure we all remember the great flood of June 2013, which didn't spare the city of Esztergom. At roofing, the water was about 655 centimeters high, and the island of Primas in the middle of the city had to be emptied, and the power and water supply stopped. It is clear that the city needs a stronger barrier system than the current one, but Esztergom has been left out of the Danube flood protection because of inadequate consultations. This was the case at the time of socialist-liberal governments, and so was the time of the independent mayor, when, unfortunately, the city was having trouble meeting the more fundamental needs of the dam. The current line of defense lies behind the Kis-Duna promenade, in the central part of Esztergom, which may cause direct and significant damage. This is a threat in the event of a flood that is more significant than the new record flood in June 2013. The new city leadership started to develop the city's flood protection concept with renewed force. According to this, they would use a mobile barrier to protect Primas Island from water, where they could thus develop a thriving tourist centre in the middle of the city with hotels and other attractions, which had already begun. A further section to the dam house would build a dungeon, and a floodgate at Kossuth Bridge and a floodgate at the upper end of the island will be planned. The investment could create a secure business environment in the area, helping the development of the city. The Komárom-Esztergom Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which offered HUF 5 million in 2013 to plan the ideas, gave a significant boost to the actual plans. Building the Esztergom defence line requires EU and government support. In case of successful applications, the project can be implemented by 2020. It is good to see that the dam system continues to grow after the big flood in 2013, and not only in case of trouble, we act in haste. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State whether the extension of the Tatian dam system in the Esztergom area continues. Thank you.
u2015-04-20-54	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The flood protection line in Komárom-Almásüzitő is currently under development and the export works are underway. They're expected to be finished by September 30th, and with this flood protection line, this line will be in good technical condition. Within the Tat-Esztergom flood protection line, the development of defences for the Tát dam was completed in 2014. On this line, too, we can say that the technical state of the defences is good. In the case of Esztergom, in the area mentioned by you, the closure of Prímás Island was included in the studies and development concepts prior to the Danube flood in 2013, but, after all, the proper preparation of this has not taken place. Unfortunately, although the water industry applied independently, the city did not participate much in previous proposals for flood protection developments, the necessary municipal decisions were not taken. After 2013, the negotiations continued, we have now reached the point where the government expects the protection of Prímás Island for the 2014-20 planning period in the project proposals, and during the KEHOP competition it will be possible to resolve the breach of Prímás Island either by developing the protection line on the Kis-Duna promenade or by developing a new external trail along the Nagy-Duna. The necessary discussions are under way. The municipality has received the necessary assistance and information to create the opportunities for the appropriate line of defence to take place by transforming its regulatory plan, and can then start work with the help of proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-56	Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: When will the disaster situation in the hazardous waste storage facility of Budapest's Chemicals be brought to an end? It's an address. The congressman has the floor. Here.
u2015-04-20-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is clear from the previous question that it is also known to you that, at the meeting of Kispest, Ferencváros and Pesterzsébet in the middle of Budapest, more than 1300 tonnes of hazardous waste in the field of the former Budapest Chemical Works pollutes the environment and constitutes an environmental disaster. On 15 April, I was present with the mayors of Kispest, Pesterzsébet and Ferencváros, including Mayor Ákos Szabados and Péter Gajda, deputy mayor and municipal representatives of the region, as a Member of the Parliament, at the environmental entrance we had at the factory on Szabadatos út. These are the photos, Mr. Secretary of State. [[He's showing it to me.]] They're made, they're talking for themselves. Amazing conditions prevail, under God's free sky, these barrels rust, rot, and the pollutants in them flow unhindered into the ground. Chemicals were liquidated in 2008. The authorities fined him several times, by the way. A remedial action with EU support started, but this stopped in 2011 due to a lack of resources. It is a strange paradox that these substances should be watered in order to avoid explosions, and this watering itself washes the pollutants into the soil. Dear Secretary of State, Municipal representatives and mayors have adopted a joint statement. Since then, a petition has been signed with hundreds of people, the essence of which is to act immediately, and we are waiting for the government's help to do so. This amount of hazardous waste must be transported immediately to a safe area, so that the substantial remediation can start in the coming months. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Neither the liquidator nor the municipalities have any resources to do so, so we are asking for the government's support. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-58	Thank you very much. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As my response to Congressman Sallai shows, I am not unfamiliar with the environmental damage caused by the 130-year-old activities of Budapest Chemicals, but I do not think you are either. The situation would have been discussed by the Member before 2010, not only on 15 April 2015, so that action could have been taken earlier. I do not want to repeat myself, but I think it is important to say again that on the basis of the principle of the polluter pays, the Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. be responsible for the environmental emergency that has arisen. The competent authority has used all legal means to settle the case. It issued its compulsory decision to transport hazardous waste and to eliminate environmental damage, imposed fines for non-compliance, and filed a criminal report for a thorough suspicion of a breach of the waste management system. As regards the cleaning of groundwater with EU support referred to by the Member, it was found in 2009 that the contractor did not pay his subcontractors, so the project was excluded from EU support on the proposal of the National Development Agency responsible for the use of EU funds and the Ministry of Finance. Once again, I can say that the government is examining the possibilities of closing the prolonged winding-up procedure as soon as possible. [[12.40]] I am thinking of the company's status as a strategically important entity. We will also examine how we can achieve the rapid elimination of environmental damage, including through EU funds. The 2016 budget is in the process of being planned, which [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] will include our proposal to replenish the national environmental remediation programme framework. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2015-04-20-60	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - Why have they not acted against the payroll firms in the last five years? It's an address. Here.
u2015-04-20-61	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Today, more and more people are trying to get a higher education degree quickly and with as little as possible instead of years of persistent learning. Unfortunately, there are also people who want a real degree without more serious efforts, and for example, their thesis is commissioned by a specialised wage-student. To find out if such companies actually exist, we do not need to be a secret agent, and we do not even have to have a friendly relationship with Google, because we can also meet such ads on the most popular social media sites and video-sharing sites. Of course, we can also enquire about the services of many companies, which undertake to complete the thesis, even within two weeks. The writing of the degrees has become a profitable industry, as we can find several advertisements on the Internet; the price ranges from 60 to 300 thousand forints. The problem is, on the one hand, that fraud is against the law. After all, a student who presents a degree in his own capacity that other students have prepared is committing a private document forgery and can be punished by imprisonment for up to a year, and the author of the paper may be held accountable for an accomplice. On the other hand, it is also a serious problem that these people will destroy public life, set a bad example for young people, and lead large companies and offices with false knowledge. In our opinion, it is in the interest of Hungarian society to employ the workforce not on the basis of false, but on the basis of real knowledge. We also consider it important that young people who have spent a lot of time, energy and money on the labour market should not be disadvantaged. We find it unacceptable that the government has not taken any steps in the last five years to combat the elimination of this industry, which is why I ask the Secretary of State: why have they not done anything in the last five years against payroll firms? Why didn't they even make the necessary amendments to the law? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-62	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the Member here draws attention to a phenomenon within the walls of this House which is a realistic phenomenon and which must be addressed. There have been many instances of such practices in the past, but I think it shows a very advanced stage that the Member reports that simply by searching the Internet you can find advertisements made by someone with such completely unfair intentions. Obviously neither advertisements can be published in this regard, nor these papers, thesis, nor can they be prepared, nor should they be taken into account in the submission. Obviously, universities also have the potential, since they have software to eliminate repetitions and copyings. There's the defense of the diploma paper when - that's the point of protecting - everyone has to prove that they made it themselves. So you'll have to answer questions in front of a number of instructors that should, in principle, be found out that the person didn't write his own paper. So in the final phase of use, so to speak, there are also guarantees that would, in principle, provide an opportunity for a thorough defense, a thorough questioning, to clearly reveal that the person did not make that thesis himself, but had it made with someone else. But it is totally unacceptable for people to set up businesses to serve an illegal purpose and thus gain illegal money. Obviously, there is no legal form, there is no way that they can take over the consideration for this, because, I suppose, they usually don't issue invoices. [[Gergely Farkas: If you agree so much, why don't you do something?]] But even if you issue an invoice, obviously there is no such legal activity as writing a thesis instead of someone else, so the cash flow that is happening on this issue can only be illegal. I was going to point out that even on his criminal line, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it is possible to act here as an act of or a party to private document counterfeiting, as well as on the whole line. We will do everything in our power to do this because it is an important question, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-64	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: "Where did Alexander Nagy go? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered by Mr Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, who is competent and competent on the subject. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-20-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Since no official company or government information was provided, the Hungarian public really had to learn from the Internet press that one of the most committed supporters and frontmen of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, Sándor Nagy, had left for London. Project firm, i.e. head of the investor. This step is very unusual and unexpected. Unusual, since we find little or no example of an investment that is declared a key investment of the century back home, your front man disappears and starts an international career in the middle of the project. In addition, it is extremely unexpected, as it was a few weeks earlier that this director expressed his enthusiasm for the Paks expansion, and the Hungarian Order of Merit's officer - civil section - rewarded his work for preparing the construction of the planned new nuclear power plant blocks and for the activities of the Hungarian government for the Russian-Hungarian treaties and implementation agreements. So this is a man who expressed his enthusiasm, was decorated by the government, but in the middle of his work this man, Alexander the Great, stood up and left for London. Now, given that we have not received any official information about this, I have observed that basically there are two kinds of speculations. One of them relates to the fact that Alexander the Great was most likely to flee to London because he was the person who signed the implementation agreements that the European Commission has been tearing apart ever since. The other option, however, is that, apart from Viktor Orbán and his narrower circle of friends and business, not many people in Hungary think that this Paks expansion can take the form you dreamed of in this country. Accordingly, he was running away from being held accountable. Alexander the Great, or because he knows that what he's started is not going to happen. Dear Minister, Let these speculations end: please inform the Hungarian public and the representatives of why Alexander the Great left.
u2015-04-20-66	Minister János Lázár responds.
u2015-04-20-67	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the Member for clarifying the question, because the speaker or fellow Members interested in history could have misunderstood her comment or question about Alexander the Great. [[Defiance.]] So at least now we know which Alexander the Great was talking about when the question was asked. On the other hand, allow me to express my absence before I answer in simple form, because my colleagues hold 42 residential forums talking to people who live in Tolna County and Bács County in the vicinity of the nuclear power plant, and I have never seen the congresswoman, just here in Parliament. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Just here in Parliament?]] It would have been worth talking to the voters, given that they supported the investment in an overwhelming majority. There was a community [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] where 90% of the village's adult population was in the residential forum. Fortunately, this is documented - as we finish the 42 residential forums, I will give it to the congresswoman to learn people's words about how people who live in the immediate vicinity of the nuclear power plant think. Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention. ) As far as the Alexander the Great is concerned, allow me first of all to reject the accusations on your part regarding the preparation or dedication of Alexander the Great. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] Sándor Nagy is one of the most well-known experts and experts of this world, the nuclear power plant industry, who is a well-known expert and expert at European level, who is an intervention by Dr. Bernadett Szél. ) Congresswoman, if you don't mind, I've listened to you, honour me... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Tell the truth.]] Calm down first, I ask you to respect me by listening to my answer; I have also listened to your question. In the alliance of international nuclear power plant operators, a world association - if I may, I will answer to you now - Sándor Nagy received a position as director of the international nuclear power plant operator association, which is one of the world's most important nuclear power plant associations. When he asked me or others, I myself advised him to accept this job, as a priority for Hungary. We will replace it, which will not be easy, because it is one of the best professionals in Hungary, and it will be very useful for the country that it is where it is - even for you, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2015-04-20-68	Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. We are building in such a way as to destroy the values of the past? Or an obituary about unexplored archeological artifacts in Szeged. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, An irreplaceable period of medieval sacral archaeological remains were destroyed during the reconstruction of the Dome Square in Szeged and the Dome. On technical grounds, the construction authority authorised the demolition by negling the archaeologist's proposal. The nearly 2.5 billion-dollar project, owned by the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese, contributed to the destruction of the earliest church remains of the city. The official excavation report shows that remains have emerged that have not yet been identified. They had so much time for archaeologists to take samples of the remains of the walls. By the way, the remains are XII. They may be centuries old or earlier. The Dom Square is one of the most frequent archaeological sites in Szeged, and here, in the former Temple Square, the city's past is established, true, underground. Shortly after the first Orbán government was established, it amended the Law on the Conservation of Heritage. In 2010, the Cultural and Heritage Protection Service carrying out national excavations was terminated, the system was decentralised, the county museums took over the task, and the Hungarian National Museum took over the coordination. In 2013, the law on the protection of the heritage was again touched, and the balance between national heritage, the protection of national cultural heritage, cultural interests and investor interests was completely upset. Thirty short days of archaeological exploration simply make it impossible to do thorough work. The county heritage offices are placed in government offices, so it is actually the same office that decides to act as the department of heritage protection, which also acts as a building authority. It is clear that the system set up by Fidesz is bleeding from a thousand wounds, and Szeged has already suffered clearly invaluable damage. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State, although in agreement with the importance of the Dom Square investment, why the Authority has not declared the area at least temporarily protected. Who did not make the necessary decisions? Who had the oldest archeological element in their way? How much invaluable value must be destroyed to make an effective move? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-20-70	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister's Office will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister, in the form of Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here.
u2015-04-20-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It can also be seen from the fact that he does not even know that since the government formation in 2010, heritage protection has belonged to the Prime Minister's Office and not to the Ministry of Human Resources. [[Intercoms.]] It would not hurt to clarify this issue today, on World Monument Day, honourable Member, because if you had followed the legislation, you would have followed up on the results and events that we could have booked last year, you would have addressed your question not to Minister Zoltán Balog, but to Minister János Lázár. This morning, at the World Monument Day, at the International Conference of ICOMOS, we presented the most prestigious state awards and awards for heritage protection in the presence of a number of foreign participants, and there we included the achievements in the area of heritage protection in front of the most significant representatives of the profession. I have to say, after all these years, things are finally going according to the expectations and needs of the profession. Honourable Congressman, But let's not go past what the biggest cultural scandals have been in the past ten years. Selling the Ballet Institute. Then where were you? They sold it, they didn't pay attention to the aspects of heritage protection. Illegal privatisation of the property of Hadrian's Palace on the island of Shipyard. István Hiller, who presided over it, wanted to prevent it as a former minister, but György Szilvasy crossed it, so you sold this area and had to buy it back later. The sale of the land of Erkel Theatre, the attempt to tear down the theatre, and I could tell you more about the disappearance of the sixty-year-old graveyards. Let's not talk about that. Skandalum, scandal! What, on the other hand, is the situation in Szeged? The truth is that on July 31, 2014, an inheritance permit was issued for the remains of the wall, and it was decided that the remains of the church of the Medieval Church of St Demeter would be highlighted and put back in its original place, and in November, in the case of new findings, protection and documentation were also decided. There is no danger, the investment of Dom Square continues, with a total of 2 billion EU funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-72	Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: after the carpet bombing of the regime change, do you not feel the need for protectionist economic policy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During the suspicious privatisation processes of the derailed regime change, foreign buyers also acquired Hungarian patents, engineering knowledge, domestic and foreign markets in the field of domestic vehicle manufacturing, thus eliminating Hungarian competition and as a result causing huge socio-economic damage to Hungary. This is the well-known past, painfully experienced by millions. However, despite carpet bombing, thanks to Hungarian will to live, engineering innovation, expertise and not exactly spoiled domestic entrepreneurs by governments, there is still the intellectual capital, although scattered, but existing capacity that enables the country to produce state-of-the-art vehicles, trolleys, motor trains and trams. As a result of last week's excellent fact-finding by Magyar Nemzet, the wider public could also learn that flowers were produced on the ruins, since the Bajai Ganz Transelectro Kft., BKV Vehicle Repair Ltd., the Alföldi Kohásti és Gépipari Zrt., the Dunai Airplane Factory in Tököli Zrt. - to mention just a few - despite the counterwind, it still works. They look forward to a government of protectionism, which is truly serious about reindustrialisation, creating quality jobs for Hungarian workers, finally bringing together these competences, developing domestic industry, and not helping the domestic automotive industry bleed out with the support of foreign assembly plants. I ask you, is the government willing to recognize that we are at the last minute? Are you willing to support Hungarian producers? Would you be willing to pick your home and use this to protect your home in the spirit of your philosophy to deliver orders to the home actors? Only on the lines of the BKV there are over six hundred cars, mostly aged. Will the planned 100 billion-dollar business of their renovation increase foreigners, or will domestic companies not only consider the country to be an establishment, finally get a lifeline? I look forward to your honored and meaningful response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-74	Thank you very much. On behalf of Prime Minister Gábor Orbán, on behalf of the Ministry of National Economy, who is competent on the subject, will answer the question. Here.
u2015-04-20-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One of the most important elements of the government's economic policy is to protect the Hungarian economy, protect and further strengthen the significant results achieved in recent years. It is very far from the reality of the picture that the congressman has outlined. On the one hand, foreign-owned manufacturing companies provide thousands of jobs in our country. If the government did not cooperate with these large companies and did not create an economic environment in which these companies could be present in Hungary with advanced technology and their enormous capacity to create jobs, then many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals would lose their livelihood. What the Member proposes is to eliminate the support of foreign-owned vehicle manufacturers, but it is nothing more than a harmful effort that would affect the interests of Hungarian businesses and cause a huge decline in the number of jobs. In 2014, the automotive industry accounted for 27.4 percent of the total domestic manufacturing industry, 726 companies produced HUF 6651 billion with the employment of 132 thousand people. The automotive industry also makes a significant contribution to the positive external trade balance, thus increasing the share of Hungarian suppliers in this sector is a key government intention. Since 2010, we have concluded 66 strategic partnership agreements, a quarter of which are linked to the automotive industry, and the main point of the agreements is the increase in the share of Hungarian suppliers, which these companies undertake and with which the Hungarian SME sector is strengthened. Large domestic vehicle manufacturers have more than 200 domestic supplier partners. What you've been talking about, it's got to be something that doesn't matter. We operate the support and incentive of Hungarian-owned automotive companies regardless. The companies mentioned by you represent a significant value for the Hungarian economy, and the government supports them by all means. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-20-76	I would like to ask the Members and Members of this House with all due respect, as members of the Government, to respect the time frame laid down by the house rules. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Why do taxpayers have to pay the cost of the playground scandal? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.00]]
u2015-04-20-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you that last week, in a relatively narrow statement, your ministry informed you that HUF 1.8 billion will be transferred in order to ensure that the abuses detected by the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, which affect local governments in 145 cases, do so, and that the government assumes these burdens from these municipalities. Obviously, as opposition politicians, I am missing very much that we do not see the traces and results of accountability, of seeking and of reclaiming those responsible, and, above all, because I am still suing the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development at the moment, because I do not get the data to know at all what these municipalities are and what kind of bills they are. The few cases that received press publicity, and we know which municipalities are involved, in most cases these developments have been made in connection with highly overrated or almost fictitious developments, which the European Union's Anti-Fraud Office has objected to. What we see now is that settlements are often wrong. They're bad because they didn't get the playgrounds they could have had, these very high quality motion culture-enhancing leisure tools produced by Swedish, Danish and even Hungarian industries that we promised them from the applications. So we don't have it there, so we have to take the taxpayers' money in place of local governments, while thieves and fraudsters have been richer out of this 1.8 billion forints. I'm sure for my part that I think it's justified that we make up for the children who live there, repair these playgrounds, or do what they didn't do then, and not try to cover the fraudsters' filth from these government sources. The reassuring thing would be to confirm, Minister, that these criminal proceedings are under way, that accountability and accountability will happen, and that this transfer of funds is not just a sham, a cover-up of this terrible filth that has happened. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I look forward to Minister's reply. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-04-20-78	Honourable Congressman, You may expect Minister, but you asked the Prime Minister's Office, but the matter is a matter for the Ministry of the Interior, so Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will answer you, obviously exhaustively. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in 2008, the rural development proposal, which provided financial resources for the development of municipal community spaces, such as playgrounds, was launched. These playgrounds were completed by 2009-2010. By the way, 140 municipalities are involved in this 145 projects. At these playgrounds, it was later found that VAT was not charged, VAT was not paid, or that VAT was returned to the municipalities on a rather rough road. OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, has indeed brought this matter to light, and the procedure has been initiated in this respect, in which the municipalities have to pay back the aid and interest. If these municipalities, which, in many cases, received half of their budget as a subsidy, did not receive State aid for their operation, they would simply go bankrupt. This is why the government has decided that these municipalities will receive operating aid from the reserve of the municipal chapter. Nevertheless, there has, of course, been a report and an investigation is under way to determine why and how this situation could have developed. It is important that the playgrounds have been built, so, contrary to your written and partly oral question, these playgrounds have been built, but there are significant problems with VAT clearance. It's being found out, wrapped up. Otherwise, political accountability took place, as in 2010 the electorate decided that the government had to go then. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-80	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next questioning Member, honourable Parliament, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the students of the Lorántffy Zsuzsanna Secondary School in Dunaújváros, Vocational School and College, as well as the Babits Mihály Practitioner High School and Secondary School in Pécs and the respected colleagues. I'm glad you're here. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. How long will they lie in case M4? It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2015-04-20-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, If a settlement cannot be reached quickly in the modern world, investors do not choose it as a location. A settlement cannot build a motorway on its own, it can only be done by government means. It's not that Mihály Varga's National Economy Secretary's study has uncounted money bags, and anyone who walks by takes one on his shoulder and takes it. All forints must be valued and all forints should be put in the right place, Mr.Orbán said 2014. CHAPTER IV on the 14th of the month in Zalaegerszeg. Then, it seems that there is no place for Hungarian tax forints in Szolnok County, according to Viktor Orbán, of course. Minister and Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy have given different reasons and other explanations for the cessation of the M4 section between Abony and Weapons every day for the last two weeks. I would like to quote from Mr Miklós Seszták's reply to my written question:. The European Commission made it clear in March 2015 that it does not intend to support in any way or to any extent the development needed to create a missing East-West link. The costs of the work started can no longer be covered by EU funds. There is no resources to carry on the implementation of this year's budget. The government therefore decided to stop the investment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The government created a situation where companies could also use contracts against the government in the debate, because in 2013 when they were pushing for János Lázár to evacuate the HUF 800 billion framework of the EU term, they included in the contracts with companies to provide financial support for the work from EU funds and the Transport Operational Programme. For all these reasons, Minister, what investments may still be uncertain in East Hungary. Finally admit who's responsible for the 100 billion-dollar act and how long they're gonna lie about M4! I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-20-82	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-83	Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to confirm to you and the Members of Parliament that, in case M4, the true word that Minister Seszták wrote to you is that the European Commission has withdrawn funds from the project and the budget has not made it available. This is exactly the same as when someone builds a house and runs out of money. At this moment, the most important thing is to account for the mason to whom he has commissioned, and then, after considering whether he has the opportunity to continue, of course, this sequel has no possibility. So we're talking about two paths, actually. The government's direct efforts to connect Szolnok County City to motorway network 1 by 2018, from the direction of M5 or M0; the government will make a final decision on this in May. The second, which, I believe, is equally important for all my colleagues in Szolnok County, is how we can get voters in Szolnok County to an infrastructure that can lead to a significant change in their quality of life or in their economic situation. This is the four-tracking of Route 4 from Szolnok to Gun. The government will also support this investment. So we will continue this investment. However, I hope it will have reduced technical content and streamlined construction prices. There's one thing I'd like to offer you. Firstly, the European Commission has constantly encouraged us for two years to support this investment, and then at the end, with reference to the fact that OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, is also conducting an investigation in this case, namely that the subject of the investigation is the very high price offers per kilometer - a letter is available - and has also withdrawn the possibility of final support from the programme by reference to this. After that, we have no choice but to divide the program into two parts, first to connect Szolnok to the motorway system, and at the same time to start completing the 4 in an eastern direction. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. Nándor Gúr: What about the railway station?]]
u2015-04-20-84	Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. What does the government do to promote renewable energy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-85	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, While more developed countries are keen to develop and increase public renewable energy subsidies, there is still no progress in Hungary in this matter. If we look around Europe, Germany, Italy, Spain have made tens of years of commitments to develop renewables and to support systems for residential use, we can say that the money was poured out, while we last had a residential tender in August 2011, which was closed after two days. [[13.10]] In 2012, a tender was issued for solar collectors producing hot water and solar collectors using hot water, not for solar panels, and never for residential wind power plants in Hungary, even though these are the opportunities that would really bring about a reduction in the costs for the population. Here, not only people in suburban, small-town, village, but also people who live on farms and actively take part in farming. How many people who want to move forward would be a huge help if they could power their farm with solar or wind power purchased from a renewable energy programme with an appropriate support system, or if they didn't have to carry an aggregate to start the pumps! True, this technology is still available at the moment, but in terms of the electricity consumption of an average family house, the total electricity generation is more than ten years in addition to today's prices. This is a great time in the lives of today's people, who often look at their budgets or their lives from month to month or from year to day. Current calculations show that at least 50% of solar and wind power, household solar and wind power could be supported. This would best help families who are in a lucky position to create self - strength for these systems. So I'm asking you if the government is willing to provide a source of resources to protect the state of our environment in this cycle, or rather, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] further taxing, which makes it impossible to strengthen environmentally friendly technologies. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-86	Thank you very much. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó will answer the question. Here.
u2015-04-20-87	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In relation to the increased uptake of renewable energy sources and to encourage them, the government has also set the goal of improving the living conditions of rural populations, in line with the European Union's 2020 appropriations and objectives. The role of renewable energy sources in rural development is included and highlighted in Hungary's renewable energy action plan, and I will also give you a specific number later on. Renewable energy sources play a major role in rural Hungary, alongside climate protection utility, in order to promote economic recovery and development. The 2020 targets included in the strategic documents, support for investment, support for the population in the operational programmes to be implemented in 2014-2020, such as the COHEP, VEKOP, GINOP and TOP resources, are combined, which means HUF 730 billion. And how much this value has been in recent years, I would like to tell you about the amount of the mandatory system of take-over, the CCCTB financing renewable energy sources. In 2011, the Hungarian government provided HUF 25.5 billion in support, HUF 28 billion in 2012 and HUF 36.5 billion in 2013, which means that energy production increased by more than 50 percent from renewable sources. In the last six months alone, we have, in general, launched a solar-related tender of more than HUF 30 billion. [[He replaced Adam Mirkóczki in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]] Based on national building energy strategy surveys, the government has established a home heat program, including the modernisation of the condominiums with energy savings and support for renovation, including solar panels and renewable energy sources. This proposal [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It will be available to all from 30 April 2007. Please accept my answer to the question. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-88	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question, "When can we get to know the hotel account of János Lázár?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Hungarian taxpayers have not known for a year, and according to the laws in force, they would have the right to know who and what you were doing in 2013 [[Defiance.]] luxurious conditions, luxury hotels during an official trip to Switzerland and Italy. Even one of the most emblematic ministers of the system of national cynicism has the argument that you don't have to report it, because when you were caught, you quickly repaid the millions spent, and not only did the public not accept it, Minister, a country was upset by your virtuosity, but also by the court. For more than a month now, there's been a final court ruling that you have to disclose the data about the inexplicably expensive sightseeing tours. You know, in the state of law, the way it works is that when someone gets caught, the compensation for the damage can only be reduced, but it doesn't trigger the punishment you're claiming, it's like if someone steals a bagel from a store, and after they've been caught, they say I'm putting it back quickly, nothing happened. This approach to the rule of law is reflected precisely in the decision of the court, but it is not reflected in your attitude. Although the judgment in question was delivered on 12 March, we still don't know who and what one of the Hungarian government spent it on, then even his State Secretary, now his minister, is now the taxpayer's money throughout Western Europe. I remind you, you have refused to answer my questions about your travels in private before the National Security Committee. From now on, I ask you not to refer to the fact that, for reasons of national security in London, you have not responded to the situation for reasons of national security, because if that had been the case, you could have told the members of the National Security Committee in the closed session, but you were not willing to do so twice. Now is the time to put an end to this pathetic dog comedy, which would be unacceptable in democratic countries. Please stand before the public here and now and report to the court, in what circumstances, with whom and what you have spent the one-year income of an average Hungarian worker during the two trips, Minister.
u2015-04-20-90	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-91	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your interest, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Congresswoman Demeter and Mrs Bernadett Szél are regularly interested in my travels abroad. Firstly, as I have already said to my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, if this was a private journey, I do not wish to involve you or the congresswoman in my private life at this time. [[István Apáti: For now? Intercoms: for now? Defiance.]] So I don't know about this for you... - I'm not planning this stage yet, so I can't answer that question in that sense. I have already said to you, in serious terms, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, I believe that in fair circumstances, and I have also told my fellow Member, the Hungarian Socialist Party, who asked me that I cannot give you the exact coordinates for this journey, and I have rather agreed to pay the amount because those I met were protected persons and protected information for the good of the country. I've met people whose names are being made public, their positions being made public would be significantly compromised by the country's national security interests. I took an oath to work for the national security of this country, and if I break it, I believe I'd go wrong. Congresswoman, if I give you exactly where, when and who I've met, this, I think, is a national security risk for this country. After I have sensed that Hungary has such a special legal system that, despite the fact that I have paid this amount, and something - which the court has not yet written down - I will have to inform the public about it, of course, but I am telling you in advance who I have met, I will not disclose it in connection with the court ruling. Luckily, the judge at the Mansion, I think he had the sense and the sense of justice that he didn't have to do that. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-92	Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, 40 patients per nurse? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, please.
u2015-04-20-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 March this year, the Hungarian Health Professional Association held a general meeting, in which it issued an open letter to the government, the State Secretary for Health, and drew its demands to 12 points. In the open letter, addressed not only to the government and professionals, but also to the Hungarian society, it is described as being increasingly worrying about the situation of nearly 100,000 highly qualified health professionals. One of the important problems of the worrying situation of the workers is the lack of a career model and the low salary of the workers. Safe care cannot be guaranteed in the short term without a career model for health professionals, and nearly 70 percent of health professionals make use of the guaranteed minimum wage, which is only 10 percent higher than the minimum wage. The other issue, which was not deferred, to which the workers drew attention, is a lack of replacement. The replacement is particularly important because the average age of the workers is close to 50 years, and in ten years more than 20,000 workers will be missing from the already lacking profession. The claims raised by the sector are not fantasies, are not irresponsible claims, they are minimum claims, without which, without the introduction of which, there is a high probability that new workers will leave work, their strike will threaten a complex patient care crisis, or the situation threatens to do so. In view of all this, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary how the living and working conditions of health professionals will be improved. [[13.20]] Do they even start the wage negotiations? Will basic salary be raised by health professionals in 2015? Will the community transport and extra-wage benefits of the workers be supported? Have you even read the 12 points that have been placed before you on the table? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-20-94	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your last question about whether we have read these points would not have been raised, honourable Member, if you had been a little more informed about the matter. At this meeting of the Chamber, Minister of State Gábor Zombor took part and took these points personally, which were also presented there. By the way, the chamber is obviously very close to our wallet. I took part in the Felsőházi Hall myself at a celebration meeting, and, as I mentioned earlier, on the occasion when these 12 points were accepted and their other needs were presented, Mr Sombor was there all along and listened to these requests. It is important to move forward either on the issue of wages or on the issue of improving working conditions, or on the third part on the issue of training. I can tell you from the last four years what we've done and how we've made progress. The hundreds of billions of HUF hospital development is primarily about patients, as they are the focus of our health policy, but besides the patients, it obviously also creates better working conditions for nurses and doctors there. This is hundreds of billions of forints, which we have spent on this from EU funds. As far as the training is concerned, as you said, by restarting vocational secondary schools, 2,300 students were able to start their studies, and hospitals were also given the opportunity to conclude study contracts. 898 people from the TÁMOP programme participated in the development of human resources, while 723 people, financed by GYEMSZI, participated in the built-in vocational training. We have made the further trainings free of charge, and this could happen from a budget of HUF 439 million. In 2015, in order to make the nursing career more attractive, we adopted a scholarship in support of career choice in the budget of HUF 2.2 billion. Sectoral wage development, which has been completed over the past three years, has helped 95 thousand health workers, including nurses, with a total value of HUF 76 billion and 27 percent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] average wage increases. These were the starting steps, and we will continue with them in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-20-96	Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "What does the government do to remove asbestos in public buildings? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-97	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. It is obvious to all of us that asbestos is a substance that is seriously harmful to human health. Nowhere in the buildings where he interacts with people, he cannot stay in Hungary. Today, very rightly, its use has been banned, but from the '50s to the '80s it has been used in very large quantities of thousands of tons of architecture. His races are well known, white, blue, and brown asbestos, which is used as various insulating materials. Its physiological effects are common knowledge, but it deserves to be said that they can cause, cause, cause asbestososis and various cancers by the ageing of various asbestos-containing insulations. Hungary has succeeded in reducing asbestos in Hungary's population, but the problem I would like to talk about has unfortunately not been given enough attention. In the public buildings built during the period mentioned above, asbestos is still found in different forms. Although a survey is supposed to be carried out throughout the country, unfortunately the complete discharge is still far away. Most of the time, people who come into contact with an older building have no idea what danger they are in, see the news that has recently been published in the press. There is no information or information available to enable a public servant to decide whether to take the risk of doing so in such a building. So I'm going to ask you if there's accurate data on how many other public buildings contain asbestos and exactly what the timing of asbestos removal is. Exactly how many workers or residents are affected by this problem, where is the asbestos removal program of the public buildings in our country? And is it public to people working in these buildings to do their job in the presence of dangerous substances? Is there a budget for the asbestos removal programme in the EU cycle, from which asbestos removal may be fully implemented for public buildings? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-20-98	State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh responds. Here.
u2015-04-20-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank Mr President, with his question, for drawing attention to the environmental and health problems of asbestos. Asbestos was used for insulation, roof coverings and then in the automotive industry, among other things, because of its very beneficial properties. Unfortunately, the health-damaging effect of asbestos, which causes lung cancer to develop very quickly, was recognised and proven relatively late. In order to assess the extent of the asbestos problem, they began to assess the composition, sources, quantity of asbestos waste and the range of vulnerable in the 1990s on behalf of wallets responsible for environmental protection and health. Between 1999 and 2002, national detection and registration of buildings containing scattered asbestos was conducted under the direction of the Ministry of Environment. From the end of 2002 the National Chief Medical Office took over the task of collecting data. Unfortunately, due to the lack of surveys, we can only estimate the costs of the total asbestos removal of our buildings. The most dangerous asbestos product for human health is so-called scattered asbestos and other asbestos cement products, which, according to current data, would cost more than HUF 300 billion, which exceeds the Hungarian budget. However, our wallet considers it important to address the risks posed by asbestos, which is why we have integrated the asbestos waste disposal programme into our national waste management plan for 2014-20. In addition, asbestos removal will be possible under the operational programmes of the EU funding period 2014-20. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-20-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's 13:26. We'll move on to immediate questions. Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Where are the savings of 27 800 law enforcement, defence and national security workers? It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Ádám Balog to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman if he accepts his identity. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes.]] He'll take it, so it's up to the congressman. Here.
u2015-04-20-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As memorable, Péter Szijjártó could have saved the assets of one of the foreign firms from the fallen Quaestor even at the last minute. What Péter Szijjártó could do, the Honvéd Health Fund did not have the opportunity to do, even though they took immediate action as soon as they learned from the media about Buda-Cash's bankruptcy. However, from their account at the BRB bank, the HUF 1.8 billion of the health fund was transferred. As a result, although the balance of the health fund has been reduced, the money transferred has never been transferred to the other account. Therefore, in a written question, we asked for an explanation of where the money transferred went. György Matolcsy explained that the restrictions imposed by the MNB were already in place at the time of the transfer, so the transfer did not take place. Since the transaction was cancelled, the balance of the health bank's bank account has returned to its former status, says the MNB. Mr Vice-President, the fact is that until now the health fund has not had access to the amount of billions of dollars. This concerns the payment of 28,000 soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers at the health bank, which may result in surgeries and medical interventions, endangering the lives and physical integrity of people. We therefore expect clear and straight answers between Parliament's walls. First of all, on what legal basis was the cancellation of the credit transfer initiated, by whose order? Has the Commissioner informed the health institution about all this? According to your reply, the balance of the health bank's account at BRB Bank has been restored, does it mean that the HUF 1.8 billion in question is fully available in the health bank's account right now? Finally, the most important question is: when can the health institution have access to this amount and start making payments to its members? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-20-102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Vice President Ádám Balog. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-103	Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to outline the legal situation very briefly. In the present case, the health fund has members, they are members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Bank, who manages its account at the BRB bank . The BRB bank's correspondent bank is the Regional Bank of Transdanubia, the so-called DRB bank, which can only make and initiate transfers through it. [[13.30]] The Transdanubian Regional Bank, the top-ranking financial institution, received the withdrawal decision on 24 February at 10:38 p.m., so he couldn't have done it from 10:38 p.m. on the 24th, the BRB a little later, at 13:27 p.m. on the same day. Between the two dates, the Honvéd Health Insurance Bank initiated a transfer, which could have left the BRB's account system. At the same time, the DRB, which is at its highest level, could no longer carry out a transfer by this time, since by now the Hungarian National Bank has withdrawn its licence of activity and beimitated the amounts that can be transferred in one million HUF. Therefore, there was no legal possibility for the Transdanubian Regional Bank to carry out this transaction at this time. Why the Magyar Nemzeti Bank could do this: a lot of legislation can do this, especially under the Hungarian National Bank Act, as in every case when such irregularities have been found, together with the delegation of the supervisory commissioner, we either withdraw the licence of activity or, depending on the situation, take action. Therefore, the legal situation was completely different from that of Quaestor, where the different withdrawal of the licence of activity has not yet been established. So the law is in place, the order came from the Hungarian National Bank, the money was actually put back into the account, but they can't really access it. They will not be able to access it until the liquidation of the Transdanubian Regional Bank and its group of banks is completed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the exact amount of money that can be returned to each account holder is not known. Thank you.
u2015-04-20-104	The congressman should have a rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vice President, you have not been able to answer the following questions. Under what legislation, where is the money, and when will the right holders receive it? Instead, he told us that this money had disappeared on the basis of a lot of legislation. You can't tell me exactly where you are now, or, if I understand it correctly, you're saying here, in front of the public in Parliament, that this amount will be included in the winding-up proceedings. So the 28,000 people who had nothing to do with this bank bankruptcy and bank scandal will use their money to satisfy the demands of others in the liquidation process, even though I say once again, these were health savings. Nonsense is his answer, and of course he also shows you from the Quaestor Act adopted by Parliament that you have left out tens of thousands of people who are still innocent victims of these scandals, and they seem to be running for their money. Your answer is unacceptable. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to answer and explain: how does this 28,000 people get their money? Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-106	Mr. Vice President, rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-107	For the sake of the Member, the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. Law No 80 § (1) is what is the relevant paragraph here, and we can act on it. There are a number of other paragraphs behind this, and I would be happy to send them to the Member. [[Lajos Korózs: Most laws have paragraphs, yes. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is what is the relevant paragraph here, and this is what we can act on. There are a number of other paragraphs behind this, and I would be happy to send them to the Member. (Lajos Korózs: Most laws have paragraphs, yes. - Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ) In English, the law applies equally to everyone. I fully understand the Member's view that this is a very difficult situation for many people, but unfortunately, the law must apply equally to everyone, and we cannot make an exception. No exceptions can be made for anyone. Thank you very much. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-20-108	Dear Parliament, MEPs Márton Gyöngyösi and Ádám Mirkóczki, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept his identity. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister with my question.]] Congressman will wait for the Prime Minister. In this case, it will be Mr János Volner, who is going to stop paying EU money. He wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with a title. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I'd like to ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[János Volner nodds.]] It accepts the identity of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman. Here.
u2015-04-20-109	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The news last week that the European Union can stop the payment of hundreds of billions of HUF to Hungary has hit the country as a cold shower. As a reason for stopping, the Union did not identify different formal errors or minor malfunctions, but cases of high risk of corruption where they were priced several times, and the tenders did not reveal that there was no filter in the system that could have been filtered out. There was a five-time purchase of machinery, and there was a nine-fold bid fee. These systems didn't filter out. I would like to remind Minister that Jobbik has always worked in Parliament with constructive proposals, pointing out the maladministration of the European Union's money. For example, I came to the aid of Minister myself when I found traces of HUF 21 billion of money paid to offshore companies within the system. This was a payment for the period of the Orbán government. I was able to point out what was recently a front-page press story, that there were 53 cases in one group of companies that one company wrote the application, the other company wrote the application, and the third company won it. This was virtually within the framework of a family business, within a family, some family members. I would also like to remind you that in these cases we have seen where there is a hole in the system, but the government has not responded to these cases, and now we suspect that this hundreds of billions of HUF damage is threatening Hungary, because the government has done nothing to plug these loopholes and to incorporate Jobbik's constructive professional proposal. All I can do within the parliamentary framework is always draw attention to this, but I ask the Minister to answer what was the reason for this failure. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-110	Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-111	Thank you very much to my honourable fellow Member for this question, just because it gives me the opportunity to respond to the issue of public opinion that has kept many people excited for weeks. If I may, I would like to start with the fact that the Vice-President of the European Commission, in Budapest on Friday, declared the current procedure a technical error, a technical problem and a technical check. There are still a few of these, and there will be an EU development cycle until the end of the 2007-13 development cycle. I would like to state, on the basis of the honour of Hungarian entrepreneurs, that we have concluded a contract with 43,000 companies between 2007 and 13th. Of these, 53 companies were investigated and 19 out of 53 companies were found to be faced with the following problem. I asked for all the files, and I looked at them at the end of the week to see what the European Commission thought was a mistake, and how wrong it really was, given that the random check, as it turned out before the agenda, did not know who was giving the ideas, so it is worth examining each company's case one by one. It is a typical mistake that we are talking about the indicative tenders submitted at the time of the submission of the tender... - forprofit, let us add, an operational programme to improve economic competitiveness, it was the task of these companies, let us say, to buy machinery. They asked for a bid for the purchase of a machine, and the difference between the bid and the purchase price was discussed by the European Commission, saying that the price offer, i.e. the price offered at the time of the submission of the tender, could be double the difference between the price of the machine which was later won after the award. It should be examined that the result of a multi-annual tender assessment is that the prices of machinery or the prices of the products purchased, or the prices of the services purchased, or fraud, colliding with the supplier and collaborating with the winner, or that this is how the self-force was produced. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-112	The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-113	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to remind you once again that we have always been able to make constructive proposals from Jobbik, and in all cases we have been able to point out where there is a hole in the system. In the previous case, we found a trail of HUF 21 billion in offshore companies in this way, and now we are worried about hundreds of billions of forints. I ask the Minister to allow us to look at the fate of these European Union funds. We did not have this opportunity, because when we asked the Minister, we did not get an answer when we tried to get the government to account, then the court wiped out our demand for this, and it is natural that if a Member does not find a trace of public money, he will try to exhaust all his parliamentary options. That's what we've always done. [[13.40]] By the way, Minister, I am very interested to know how Altus, a company with four employees, can receive a HUF 1.5 billion commission from the European Union, how they manage tender funds if they try to control them in this way, even on the part of the European Union. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-114	Minister, rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-115	It would be the subject of an exciting inquiry into how the European Commission itself manages the public funds it entrusts and what public procurement practices there are, but if we in Central Europe ask such questions, we may not seem politically correct. I would like to say that I would warn everyone not to brand all Hungarian small businesses or medium-sized enterprises with fraud. I'd be very careful about that. 53 out of 43,000 were tested, and 19 were found to be flawed. The country used HUF 8200 billion between 2007-13. At least two or three governments were involved in the distribution of this money. I would like to say that out of HUF 8200 billion, the current error rate does not, in the Commission's view, reach 2 percent, and we are doing this by far in line with European standards. I would like to offer you, Member, either to any committee in Parliament or to Parliament, that I will report on all the lessons and experiences of the 2007-13 period, even in the framework of a new committee. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, on your behalf, I welcome the students of István Dobó High School in Eger and the teachers. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. The banker's government has been re-established? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Ájgyártó State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask if the congresswoman will take it.
u2015-04-20-117	Thank you. I'll wait for the Minister.
u2015-04-20-118	He didn't take it. The congresswoman won't stop me, because it's still your turn. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: å How many errors will you tolerate, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. What does the congresswoman say?
u2015-04-20-119	Thank you. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2015-04-20-120	It makes my job so much easier, you can't even imagine. [[Defiance.]] In this case, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the Minister of the National Economy an immediate question:. What about the rest of the victims? It's an address. Due to the urgent public mission of the Minister, Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, will give the answer if the Member accepts his person.
u2015-04-20-121	Yes, thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-122	He won, good.
u2015-04-20-123	Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, tens of thousands of small investors and families have lost their savings, in many cases without their own faults. The LMP has launched a legal aid service for injured small investors, and we are saddened by the bitter complaint flow. The non-Quaestor-harmed complainants feel that they have been second-rate injured after highlighting the increase in the Quaestor-harmed and the long settlement of the Investor Protection Fund and litigation, a separate claim management fund compensates them, as promised, quickly. Contrary to government statements, thousands of Buda-Cash and Hungária securities-damaged customers await access to their blocked private assets. Customers of Buda-Cash or Hungária Securities haven't known exactly what they lost in over a month. However, while Quaestor's bondholders were being rescued by a hasty bill, the rest of them were on their own and had to initiate a series of complicated procedures if they ever wanted to see something of their money. Personal and so-called professional relations between the government and the leadership of Quaestor make it clear that the illegal and irresponsible operation of the brokerage company was oiled by political support. I also draw attention to the fact that we should not forget the previous cases that have symbolized the smooth functioning of the financial system over the last decade. Tens of billions of forints of tens of thousands of people have also disappeared in the Baumag or the Pilis-Invest cases. These victims are victims of a misguided state machine, just like the Quaestorists are now. I'll ask the Secretary of State what happens to the non-Quaestor-harmed. Why have thousands of victims become secondary?
u2015-04-20-124	Thank you very much. It's Gábor Orbán, Secretary of State, here we go.
u2015-04-20-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Ministry of National Economy considers it extremely important that the financial sector is properly regulated, stable, protected by customers and investors, and that we are working to reduce the number of victims now and in the future. Last week, the Parliament adopted, almost unanimously, an independent motion to establish a fund for the compensation of the victims of Quaestor damages, with only 5 votes against. The distributors justified the setting up of a separate claim management fund by stating that the characteristics of the abuse committed by the Quaestor Group are unique and that the number of victims is abnormally high. I would also like to take this opportunity to draw attention to certain differences between Quaestor and Buda-Cash. In the case of Quaestor, a series of frauds involving the bonds of a complete financial group, their own bonds, justified or resulted in this material damage which the customers suffered. The exceptional measures are justified in the event of exceptional situations, as was the Quaestor, but I believe that, as the Member mentioned at the end of her question, we must do everything we can to avoid similar situations in the future. In this regard, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that last week the government submitted to Parliament a bill on the development of the financial intermediary system, which strengthens supervisory powers in order to ensure a more efficient and transparent functioning of the money and capital markets by amending the Hungarian National Bank Act. I would also like your support for this bill. In the future, studies will become more frequent and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This proposal provides for greater transparency and security for investors and depositors. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-20-126	The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-127	Dear Secretary of State, Small investors who have suffered damage in previous years and whose situation is still not in order will not understand that this is an extraordinary situation. By the way, LMP has said in many cases that these extraordinary situations arise because you propose improvements recklessly, not thoroughly, not in the context of complex problems, but suddenly, when the political situation requires it, you take a step. You have just referred to the draft law that you have tabled, but again you are doing this by not having a comprehensive, thorough examination of the financial sector. However, if a comprehensive review is not carried out, no sound proposals can be made. Therefore, the test results should first be known and then proposed to further develop the financial system.
u2015-04-20-128	Secretary of State, rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-129	Congresswoman! I must reject your assumption that this would happen suddenly. The bill I referred to has been prepared for months. I admit it is undoubtedly true that many measures have been brought forward in time, and we have speeded up many investigations and negotiations in order to allow all changes in this regard to be included in the time, and, hopefully, at this spring session, the Parliament can accept them, which we have partly learned from the lessons of Quaestor and Buda-Cash. It is undoubtedly true that there are issues, such as the issue of auditors, which would have been brought to Parliament only in the second half of the year, according to the normal timetable. We thought it was important to bring it all in one piece, in a compact way, in a complex way. I would like your support for the bill as well. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-20-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bene Ildikó and Member István Happy, representatives of Fidesz, want to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question with the title of Network Development in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. The congresswoman will take the floor, please.
u2015-04-20-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In Szolnok and the surrounding settlements, we are pleased to see that the government, in cooperation with the local governments, is doing everything in its power to turn our county into the country's economic circulation. In addition to rapid rail developments, however, it is a decades-old wish for the inhabitants of the region to reach the capital and the eastern parts of the country on a four-track path. Szolnok and the region's direct motorway connection with Budapest can bring great economic development with them, as the working capital is very happy to be located next to the motorways. [[13.50]] The favourable location of Szolnok would thus be even more significant, since the capital would be safely available within an hour. We need to develop our road network not only to overcome the competitive disadvantage, we need to face sad accident statistics and huge transit traffic every day for citizens on Highway 4. No wonder the people in our county were concerned about stopping the construction of the M4 motorway section between Abony and Weapons, which had already begun to avoid Szolnok. Of course, we accept that the irregularities that have arisen must be investigated, because the laws apply equally to everyone, but we also want to express our hope that the construction will continue. Dear Minister, Can we trust that developments that have already begun will continue within a closed deadline and that the eastern part will also be available with a safe four-track route? After the construction has been stopped, what can subcontractors expect in terms of the work carried out? Please give an answer as to when the people of Szolnok and the region will have the opportunity to reach Budapest by expressway. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-132	Thank you very much. Minister, he's responding. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-133	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank you and all your fellow Fidesz Members in Szolnok County for the kind of work they have done in the last few weeks for the voters of Szolnok County. I think that this constructive, normal dialogue is what is needed in order for the county to really develop. Here, I would first like to underline a few things in the interest of clarity. I have now faced Parliament's meeting and last week's lack of information, which often describes a number of our fellow Members regardless of party standing. When you ask me how this situation could have developed, you forget it or you don't know it, or they don't care whether Hungary's investments from cohesion funds are determined by itself, I mean, what we spend the money we get from the European Union, because it's our money. The debate is also a realistic debate as to what this money is really made of, either from our deposits or from our previous payments, from our economic performances, or from others. The point is, the money is ours, we decide his fate, except for the investments over 50 million. After the construction of the M4, whether between the capital and Szolnok or beyond Szolnok, towards the Arms, more than EUR 50 million - there is no debate - it was therefore necessary to consult the European Commission on the investment and, if possible, to have it approved. We were deceived by the European Commission for two years - in 2009 the government decided that this investment would be carried out - that the investment could be financed, albeit with modifications. In the end, basically, with reference to the fact that the construction price per kilometer was too high - there was talk of OLAF investigation, and the colleagues of the European Commission also raised a cartel suspicion, which is being investigated by the European Commission's Secretary of State responsible for payment - which is why the investment had to be suspended first and then stopped. The question is whether the government's previous plans for 2009 or 2012 have changed. I assure you, the government's plan hasn't changed. We'll develop Szolnok County and catch up. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'll be right back. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-134	Rejoice, Mr. Happy Congressman. Here.
u2015-04-20-135	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this trip is very important to us, of course. Last week, the mayor of Szolnok County City and the county's individual parliamentary representatives held a meeting on this matter, and we agreed that the construction of the stopped investment is the most important and, of course, to connect Szolnok to the motorway network in Budapest; and if this road ends at the Armed Forces, to continue towards the eastern border, as we must know that the biggest problem of this journey is that they will cross the road at Oradea with freight traffic and passenger traffic and go all the way to Budapest on Route 4. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And back! Not just towards Pest!]] There's a lot of traffic. That's what's really causing this trip to be unsafe. I would like to know, Minister, whether you see a closing deadline for when this journey can continue and when it can be completed. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-136	Thank you, too. Rejoice from Minister.
u2015-04-20-137	I would like to point out that the way the procedure is done is that the contractors are properly accounted for. The delivery invoice for February was only payable if the subcontractors were paid. Another invoice will be issued in March from the period before the investment is stopped. This bill will be paid only if the subcontractors are paid. After this, we will be properly accountable to all investors. On Friday, the national infrastructure agency has discussed with several foreign entrepreneurs, who have assured us of their willingness to cooperate, which I believe is good news. I hope that Hungarian entrepreneurs will only be more generous in the negotiations. The section of the M4 that connects Szolnok to the capital will be decided in May by the government on how and how it will be built, on the 405 or on the M0, and then we will decide, by the end of May, whether instead of M4, or in addition to changing the technical content, how we will continue in the eastern direction. We will not abandon Szolnok County or the capital of Szolnok County, Szolnok County or the parts of Szolnok County. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. Who decides what money is available for? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-139	Thank you very much. In Paks sports life, things have been really bad for the past six months, and it's not up to the performance of athletes. Since MVM Paks II. Zrt. His supervision belongs to the Prime Minister's Office, which could mean the future of our city, so I am asking the Minister about our near future. In the last three decades, Paks' sports life has been strongly supported by the nuclear power plant and MVM Zrt. Without this support, our city's sports performance could not be so outstanding. Unfortunately, six months ago, something broke at your house. After all, neither MVM Zrt. nor the Paks nuclear power plant that it now owns is supporting sport as it has done so far. But he doesn't even give his name to gifted athletes in Paks. The NBI football team got only 150 million instead of 363 million last year. They didn't even sign the contract this year. The nuclear power plant's own sports club, the ASE, received 100 million instead of 240 million. Let's take a look at the results. The four-time champion basketball team, the kayak players preparing for next year's Olympics, canoes, cello players, where György Kozmann and Antal Kovács could grow up, will not receive any support from now on. Minister of State Aradsk said to my question the other day that I am sure that MVM decided on a market-based basis on sponsorship. Then let's look at the facts. What's more on the market? Rumor has it that instead of Paks, who is now number one, the worse-playing Kaposvár basketball team gets the support. Instead of the fifth place football team in Paks, the last place in Dunaújváros will receive the support and MTK. In two years Andy Vajna's nearly 6 billion-dollar support for the Film Fund, which the Paks Nuclear Power Plant had to pay, is certain on a market basis. That's why I'm asking the Minister, where are these support decisions really made: at the party centre? It's not like they're supporting the Fidesz municipalities' sports clubs or saving money from the MVM in Andy Vajna's Film Fund, is it? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-20-140	Minister, he's responding. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-141	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Firstly, I would like to point out that it belongs to the Minister for National Development in terms of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, i.e. Paks I's government responsibility. In my line of work, Paks II. monitoring, block constructions related to the maintenance of the next nuclear power plant capacity. Nevertheless, I take what you are asking seriously, even if, unlike many people, I take the view that otherwise, in professional football or sports, public money is not available or in a highly regulated and moderate form. This is likely to leave me in a minority compared to many, but I consider this to be an important thing, because I believe that professional sport, at least professional football, is a business in the first place. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] If they ask for the money for children, if they ask for the money to raise supplies, if they ask for social inclusion, if they ask for integration, it's completely different. I can promise you that, given the social consultation that is taking place at the moment in order to maintain capacity in Paks, that you or the mayor of Paks and other Members of Parliament in Tolna County are welcome to consult on how we can manage Paks II. to promote social responsibility in the functioning and operation of municipalities. Indeed, in all the residential forums we held last month, meeting with the citizens of 42 settlements, it has been suggested everywhere how the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can continue to contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of its inhabitants, partly with a job - so keeping the workforce is an extremely important issue - and, on the other hand, with social responsibility, which has been reflected not only in sport but also in the support of the civil sector over the last 25 years. I will examine this in any way, what you have asked, and I will propose to settle this, and I will be happy to visit the Mayor of Paks and the Paks city administration, so that we can look at this problem together and talk about how we can do this normally in the coming years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-142	There's a rejoinder for the congresswoman. [[14.00]]
u2015-04-20-143	That is why I asked Minister, because if you do Paks II in a fair, honest and professional manner, it could mean the future of the city. And that's why I thought that, on a market basis for the future, if they decided on a market basis, we should be much more supportive of an organisation that is successful in sport in this area. Because it's not that they don't give money for sports, it's Dunaújváros, Kaposvár and MTK. I think it's incorrect after 100 percent of the nuclear power plant works on Paks. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant must support Paks. Unfortunately, since we know that these decisions have been decided on a much higher level in recent years than MVM or even in ministries, we find it outrageous that the decision was taken and then the money was taken. So we won't have another Antal Kovács, we won't have another Gyurin Kozmann, we won't have world champions, we won't have Olympic champions one year before the Olympic preparation year. That is why we look forward to solving this problem, so that young people can see a future in this. Thank you.
u2015-04-20-144	Minister János Lázár, rejoinder!
u2015-04-20-145	If you'll allow me, that heretic thought in this private circle, being between us, I'll allow it. [[Dr. László Varga: Now that there is no mediation!]] - that's right - as mayor, I thought this was particularly important: I think that basically it is necessary to promote replacement education and support children. That's my personal belief. Of course, there are very important sports traditions for a settlement, and there are also world-class racers for a settlement, which is very good that they are connected to Paks and not to metropolitan cities, as every settlement has community organizational powers in its life. That is why I said that I would be happy to examine this question. At Paks II, I can provide full transparency for you and the citizens of Paks. The most important thing is that the nuclear power plant produces cheap electricity, and in addition, it is extremely important that it is able to play its part in social responsibility and support the locals. I think there's enough money in Paks I and Paks II to be enough for the Paks civilians and athletes. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Csító, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The black years of Hungarian care, the black weekend of nurses. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman. Here.
u2015-04-20-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This weekend was the nurse's black weekend. This meant that the nurses in Budapest performed their service in black clothes. With this, they wanted to draw attention to the untenable situation of the sector and nurses in Hungary today. Why is it so terrible? They're struggling with a shortage of numbers, and they've got a shovel on top of it, and they've got a lot of hospital closures and hospital wards, and bigger hospitals have become even more overcrowded, in almost inhumane circumstances, and they've got to do superhuman work. Your income situation leaves a little something to be desired, and then I put it mildly. On the other hand, it is the fact that workers in the social sphere are moving from this sphere to Western Europe in bulk, earning a living there, because even if they are not able to work at a lower level, they can get a multiple of their salary in Western Europe, in a much more human and much more feasible working conditions. It's untenable. And we see what's going on, we see how few health care workers are. Compared to this, one of the largest training centers in Budapest, the Raoul Wallenberg High School and the Secondary School are also closed, where health and social training has been provided to students there. We can also see that this is a trend. In the last 25 years, five medical secondary schools in the capital have been abolished, and one in the countryside, Kazincbarcika. It is true that it could have remained as a member institution, but this is more of a dissipation of the profession in that institution. We see that the health situation has not improved in the last 25 years, but rather deteriorated as a result of the unblessed activities of the governments at the time. Therefore, we do not understand the new school closure, but we should improve this training, so that this profession can be survived, including Hungary. Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-148	Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This was our aim at what you said at the end, so that as many as possible could get such a degree when we reopened those medical secondary schools in Budapest that are still operating. 2300 young people started their studies, and we still want the capacity for nursing in Budapest not to decrease or change. Students who may not be able to continue their studies in one institution may be transferred to other institutions, as well as teachers. Thus, the ratio of the total number of nursing courses in Budapest is not at risk. I would add that Budapest is also over-represented in this respect, as one third of the students who come here do not come to Budapest, but come here and train here. We have tried - as I have mentioned several times today - to make the nursing career attractive, so we will use a new tool worth 2.2 billion forints this year. Give exactly one career-choice, guidance scholarship to those who choose this degree, as many nurses will be needed for the following reasons, either because of age or for other reasons - you know very well. We have tried to create the possibility of apprenticeships, make further training free of charge, develop human resources for 898 people in the European Union, promote 723 people from GYEMSZI sources and from national sources, precisely so that as many nurses as possible can feel that they can carry on their qualifications, or, as young people stand before the career choice, choose the career as a nurse. This requires improving hospital conditions, which is why we have launched hundreds of billions of forints worth of improvements in health care so that they can work in better conditions. There is still plenty of work to be done here in nursing homes and other cases that need to be improved, and that is why we have started the process of wage increases from chips tax and other national sources, which meant a 27 percent average wage increase. This year, the sources of health have increased by 6 percent compared to last year, which we can also focus on these issues.
u2015-04-20-150	Congressman, rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The facts tell me otherwise than the Secretary of State. There was a reason for this weekend's protest, and there is a reason why those in this sector feel that their situation is untenable, and there is no reason to say that with such numbers, such overloaded mega large hospitals, it is impossible to maintain the situation. Neither physically nor financially can the workers in it. This does not make it attractive for young people to choose health training and this profession. In fact, only those who have a family tradition or a sense of professionalism choose to do so, and even in the face of inhuman and unlivable circumstances, choose to do so. They should be better valued, better valued both financially and in terms of working conditions, and this profession might even become more attractive and the unsustainable situation would change. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-152	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to speak to you for a moment. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-153	I think everyone agrees, honourable Member, that nursing work is a superhuman work, it requires much more than a kind of more ordinary type of work. There really must be the heart and soul of everyone here, and it is the duty of the state to ensure working conditions for this, and to show this increased respect in payment as much as possible. We have been able to do this with an extra fee of HUF 76 billion in recent years. This is all we could afford from the budget, but in the first period, we tried to give additional benefits not only to teachers but also to health workers, because this was 120 billion forints per year for teachers and 76 billion forints for the health sector. We will continue to do so, since the performance of the economy, if it increases, is the basis for increasing these wages, not by credit, but by real economic performance. And the question that Congressman said was that the number of nurses was running low and that there was a need for replacement was exactly the kind of scholarship system that I said we had a billion-dollar source this year. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-154	Dear Parliament, Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. The fate of the M4 route with the title of the present trip. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2015-04-20-155	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-04-20-156	Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-20-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, An important guarantee of the development of Cegléd and its region is that the main road 4 will be modernised and the road network of the region modernised. In recent weeks, news of the construction of the M4 has appeared: an internal investigation has been ordered, and then the suspension of the construction between Szolnok and Guns. In order to make our region - in the Central Hungary region, in the large region - and our small region more attractive to companies and investors, we need to ensure quality transport. [[14.10]] This requires the modernisation of Highway 4, the four-banding of Cegléd-Budapest and, as has already been said today, Szolnok. In the last few days, Cegléd and its surroundings have heard that the road development of Cegléd is not being developed; that it is not affected by the construction of the long-awaited M4 motorway. Dear Secretary of State, To what extent is the suspension of road development of Abony-Argument affected by the suspension of 1696/2014. did the government decree include the M4 section between Albertirsa-Abony and the extension of main road 405 between Újhartyán and Albertirsa? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-04-20-158	State Secretary Major is responding. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During the period 2014-2020, the government's road development goals include the construction of county seats, high-level road connections of county-righted cities and still missing parts of motorways at national borders. These efforts are also included in the main tasks of the national transport infrastructure development strategy adopted last summer. These objectives also apply to the area mentioned by you in your question. The history of the M4 has just been discussed in detail by Minister Lazarus, the uncertainty over the years caused by the existence, non-existent, promise of European resources; this section has been completed in recent days. By 31 May 2015, the Government decided to examine the possibility of connecting a city with Szolnok county rights to the motorway network. The review of the development plans in this area, the new schedule has started, and this will include both the 405th section between Újhartyán and Albertirsa, and the version of this will be to approach Szolnok and accordingly Cegléd from M0. We will do everything we can to ensure that the road to Szolnok and its areas are connected as soon as possible. In order to speed this up, the government has taken steps and made the right decisions. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-160	The congressman should have a rejoinder.
u2015-04-20-161	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I was reassured by your response, and I trust that it has reassured the people in the region, and that the businesses and companies that operate in the region today, or that they want to settle there or to settle there, have been reassured. I very much hope that the construction of the M4 in the direction of Szolnok-Budapest will start as soon as possible, and that the development of the region can take huge steps. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-162	The Secretary of State has a minute.
u2015-04-20-163	Thank you very much. I repeat: the government will maintain its intention to reach all county cities through the fast-track network until the end of the cycle. By the end of the current government cycle, i.e. 2018, Szolnok will become part of the motorway network, thus creating a high-level road connection between Cegléd and Szolnok. As I said, we are currently looking at this possibility, and by the end of May, the government will take specific, but concrete, decisions in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: does the government consider the Pécsi to be subjective instead of an. It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2015-04-20-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, One of the saddest chapters of government amok running in the nuclear case is about spent fuel, the placement of which has not been resolved at all here, in this country or anywhere else. We have to provide for the disposal of the current Paks nuclear waste, because the European Union forbids, quite rightly, Member States to load other countries with their own nuclear waste. So the task is given. Let's see how your government can handle this. About the same as the whole Paks expansion, hiding behind people's backs. They continue their exploration at the border of Pécs with steam. I would add that they only searched here, they don't even think about it at any other location, so it's already a fact that in this area there's a storage facility somewhere within an already defined 87 square kilometers of research. And did they inform and ask the people of Pécs, the inhabitants of the largest city in Transdanubia, what they would say? Of course not. For years, the local Fidesz city administration has not moved the staff of its ears, and even Zsolt Páva voluntarily resigned from the RHK Kft. a proposal for information from local LMP representatives was also rejected at the general meeting. And here in Parliament, you have assisted in this maneuver: by amending the nuclear law that you have tabled, we need to move to the landfill fence, so that anyone can request information about the project, as you have reduced the circle to 100 metres from the site, i.e. 100 metres from the time the people who live there can get involved in the administrative process. And even the Fidesz MEPs in Pécs voted in this House without saying a word, which will obviously have to be accounted for by them in front of the citizens of Pécs. That is why I am asking the honourable minister when the Pécs people will finally start, as well as the Holy Literatures, Bicsérds, Free Saints and Pellérians who have not been informed about the planned investment, and when they ask the inhabitants of the listed cities and villages, do they even contribute to building this nuclear cemetery a few kilometers away from their place of residence with technology that has not yet been tested anywhere in the world.
u2015-04-20-166	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár responds.
u2015-04-20-167	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I see you have a lot to say today, Congresswoman, or I'm the one who makes you think of everything. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's finish this.]] Or we have a lot in common. [[Defiance.]] I hope that you will share this special interest with my fellow minister. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Okay, we really need to finish this.]] If I may, I'd like to answer your question. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Sexist!]] , just because the inhabitants of Pécs, citizens of the city of Pécs, will be given every opportunity from the municipality of Pécs County, and until 2030, when any realistic possibility of investment by you would be possible, until then they will be given every opportunity - if any of this becomes something that is currently very uncertain - to participate in and participate in the construction of this storage capacity. I note here, Congresswoman, that your argument strengthens the Russian supplier partner in everything, who promises to ship spent fuel from the country, store it for a long time, and is willing to renew the storage agreement for a long time. So we should first settle the debate on what is in our interest: whether there is such storage capacity in Hungary or whether we are trying to find a solution not to store spent fuel in Hungary. Both approaches also have a serious camp in the government's expert team. Some say that in Hungary, permanent storage must also be solved in the long term, when these fuels return to the country, because the spent fuel is a valuable thing from a scientific and economic point of view, and in the coming decades there is a huge opportunity. And some people say they're arguing or campaigning to get rid of them as soon as possible, and they need to be kept away from the country. There is no final decision yet, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are ready with the city of Pécs, the citizens of Pécs County. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the body of representatives shall be consulted on a continuous basis. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-168	I ask you to speak to each other with respect, not to give me any misunderstanding. I'm telling you all that. It's for the congresswoman.
u2015-04-20-169	Dear Minister, Mr. President. With all due respect, it was not misunderstood at all, it was ironic sexism on the part of János Lazarus, which I reject most definitely here and now in the name of all my women. [[It's grumpy.]] Dear Minister, What does it mean to be given every opportunity? I want you to clear that up. The second is that, by the time a decision is taken, billions of public funds can be invested in this project, but this is not worth it at all, and I think that public money is not meant for a project that will not be implemented later. So it would be good to think first and then act afterwards, which is what I advise the Hungarian government to do. And I have one more question. Our correspondence with Radioactive Waste Management Ltd. shows that they refer to an important milestone, a step in the site selection process, when the Parliament's preliminary consent to the continuation of the program is required - I quoted this literally. Will the Hungarian Parliament really be in a position to decide on the nuclear waste storage facility in Boda? And if so, when? Please answer this question as the Minister in charge. [[14.20]]
u2015-04-20-170	Rejoice from Minister.
u2015-04-20-171	Fortunately, I am not the minister responsible, but I am happy to answer your question. I didn't mean to offend or upset you. You probably misunderstood my remark. I didn't think of anything like that about you. [[Defiance.]] My answer to your question would be that we would be very happy to consult all voters in Pécs and even in Baranya County and even in the neighbourhood on the implementation of this programme. I think it is very important for voters to be involved in these decisions, just as we have not yet taken any decisions against the population. The relevant legislation fully details the rights of the population, the citizens living there, in the framework of the authorisation procedure. We will also respect that, but we are not yet in the authorisation procedure. Social consultation is possible, which the government can conduct. There are information points, and you know it, and there are several possibilities in the hands of the county-righted city, Pécs. We are ready for a wide-ranging social consultation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-172	Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Why are we letting the financial favors of the MSZP worry about the government's own investments? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here.
u2015-04-20-173	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, A few days ago, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély publicly expressed his concern about the implementation of some of the government's investments. According to his words, don't paint the devil on the wall, for John Lazarus appears. I ask Minister or Secretary of State in the abstract of this type of diabolisation. Perhaps it is surprising at first that the Congresswoman is criticising the government because it seeks to exclude the possibility of abuse by all means. However, looking at the activities of the MSZP representative so far, it is immediately clear that she cannot escape only the usual social pace, the system of uncontrolled flows of millions. We are talking about the Bangóné who, in 2008, was also the beneficiary of the 500 million money distribution of the Socialists through the LEADER Association. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély assisted in the middle of the economic crisis, so that the socialist distribution of money, which has been found to be unauthorized in a court ruling since then, will also be carried out through the related, talkative name of Szegünk-Jünk Kft. Madame Bango was less anxious at the time: she came and helped herself. For example, he wasn't worried about getting the Kft. the support that he himself was the vice president of the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association, or that the local LEADER office was operating on the chicken farm of a socialist mayor, or when he charged petrol money to himself without having a licence. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's outrageous!]] The congresswoman was not too concerned that while the socialist distribution of money through the LEADER Association, János Csontos also worked as a political colleague of the MSZP representative. Despite everything, Mrs. Bango now thinks it's time to worry a little about the government's investments. Looks like he'll help and come again. Dear Secretary of State, How did we come to the point that these spiritual heirs, these eternal MSZP survivors, who have wandered the walls of Parliament to this day, are concerned about the realization of government investments? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Noise.]]
u2015-04-20-174	Instead of Minister L. Simon László State Secretary answers. Here.
u2015-04-20-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'll wait until things calm down. I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to help me to ensure silence so that I can respond. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I think it is outrageous for an opposition representative or anyone else to make a statement as Ildikó Bangóné Borbély did: "Don't paint the devil on the wall, because János Lázár is appearing. [[Noise.]] Madam Member, this is offensive. We ask you to follow Minister Lazarus. Minister Lazarus' parents are alive, he has children, he has a wife. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: And sexist!]] and a lot of voters put it here in the Hungarian Parliament. Congresswoman, this is an unacceptable style in the Hungarian Parliament from a Member of Parliament. Please follow the Minister. [[There's a grumble in opposition lines.]] Secondly, unfortunately, as much as the opposition is shouting, everything that the Member has outlined is very serious. Let's look at the facts. In 2008 the State Secretary Zoltán Gőgös approved HUF 500 million in support of the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association in violation of all relevant regulations. The association - listen, fellow Members. - On 16 December 2008, he submitted his application, and two days later the grant contract was concluded and the source was transferred four days later. What a preparation, you might say, what a unique speed! Let us look at the role of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in this process, who came and helped me as a member of the MSZP People's Welfare Committee, because she, as vice-president of the Association, assisted in the further division of support. This support was provided by the Help-We-We-We-We-We-We-We Ltd. also, in which, interestingly, the Member's role was also played by the woman. They supported events [[Forebod Novak: Like bachelor party!]] For example, we received half a million forints from Help-We Coming Kft. for a performance involving fifty people in total. [[How many people attend a bachelor party?]] All this is outrageous, honourable Members, so public money must be accounted for here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-176	Rejoice, Congressman.
u2015-04-20-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think his answer was quite clear about what kind of people are again accusing themselves of what people think they are capable of worrying about the wealth and investment of the nation. If it could be summarized in one word, I'd say it's a shame. It is a shame that Mrs Bangón and her fellow MSZPs could continue their dealings, at least without consequences so far, in the defence and in the interests of the Party, either inside or outside the walls of Parliament. I sincerely hope that we will soon be able to monitor the worthy punishment of sinners by means of appropriate official measures, supported by concrete evidence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-178	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you can raise all content issues, but not in stylistic matters, because it is up to me to decide whether or not there is a debate on stylistic issues. I now give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-04-20-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna have to complicate and wrap things up a little bit longer. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was a member of Szegedünk-Jünk Kft., who received support from the LEADER Association two more times. Moreover, the most beautiful thing is that Congresswoman Bangóné prepared the reports for herself, because she was interested in the LEADER action group and the association. After all this, we can't be surprised that the association's office in Hajdú-Bihar county, the head of which was Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, was also rented from this kft. for 250 thousand forints a month, which was also charged with the aid. Ladies and gentlemen, According to Kehi's findings, the Help-We Coming Ltd. 2,7 million forints out of 3.5 million forints were incorrectly used, unlike the target. This shows very well that, with the help of Zoltán Gőgös and Bangóné, the public funds were put in the pocket of the socialist backyard. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: The number of people to report! And you stole $1 billion! L. Simon László: Who? Me? Zoltán Grimlock: You and your buddy circle!]]
u2015-04-20-180	Dear Parliament, Bangóné Borbély Ildikó applied in order of business. I can give him the floor at the end of the agenda. As the item on the agenda is over, and I will conclude the item on the agenda for immediate questions, I will therefore give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély on a personal basis. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member, I reject the charges. I would only like to respond with one sentence: we are back in Parliament on the land of blind comons, and welcome, fellow Members of Parliament. Looks like the blind comons are facing us again. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-20-182	Dear Parliament, Before I make an announcement before the end of the discussion of the agenda items, I would like to make the following statement to the honourable Parliament; I would beg you to pay attention. Dear Parliament, At our meeting today, the Jobbik Group initiated the convening of the House Committee. Following their request, the meeting of the House Committee is expected to take place at the end of the meeting at 5 p.m. With this, Honourable Parliament, we have reached the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László Varju, an independent Member, spoke with the title of the most important events of the last week. It's up to Congressman. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2015-04-20-183	[[To intervene:]] Otherwise you won't make it to Mr. L. Simon László, and that would hurt me. Mr President, Dear House, There are two things that need to be said in Parliament today, but the first one is, of course, brought about by you here, in the last few minutes. I think that what he did to Mr János Lázár's colleague, Mrs Bernadett Szél, was tasteless. But all this being welcomed by the Fidesz faction was even more distasteful and very rude. I think that you, just as Mr Lazarus owed an apology and did so, should the faction do so. That's what you do. On the other hand, while you are here at times trying to draw attention to such internal issues, as if the issue of corruption was not primarily linked to the Fidesz faction, and instead of finally facing it, you have seen that yesterday, in a large part of the country, 47 settlements protested against you, protested against the corruption that occurred during the administration of Fidesz. The parties and civilians of the democratic opposition have spoken together, and the Democratic Coalition has, in fact, given its position on the ground in most cases. We have told you all the things that we will whip you here, in front of the national public, and we will whip you with what you are doing from Jászberény to Pécs, and we can list the cities where the stretching takes place at large. Corruption has been centralized by the Orbán government, and government corruption is woven through all of your actions. It is very difficult, even with one breath, to list all that you have done, the downtime of your private pension, the trafikmutsi, the farmhouse, the nuke, the casino dog - we can see how well Andy Vajna has benefited as a result of your decision, and we can still tell you how many people who have benefited from it - but their involvement in helping you with VAT fraud is all about what you have done, and they have either directly or indirectly benefited those close to you. Today, the system of national corruption in Orbán holds Hungary and every person in it who wants to get along fairly in this country. This is why the Democratic Coalition is fighting against the Mafia government of Orbán, and therefore there will also be a number of events and actions in the future in which we have contributed to the parties of the democratic opposition, because this, I think, is clearly necessary in the country. But this is not only our opinion, but now international judgment is here in the framework of an official Commission report, within the framework of a decision. This Commission decision presents and has serious consequences for the country, as it deprives the country and the economy of an opportunity worth 700 billion forints, as it raises the possibility in the most important areas of the economic operational programme that they cannot be paid and cannot be called, so that they cannot be used in the future. You have been unable to give a meaningful explanation of the Commission's formal decision and that there are serious shortcomings in the operation of the programme's management and control system, resulting in overpriced, unnecessary tenders and decisions that have helped entrepreneurs close to you who, in many respects, even today, do pointless things, so that you can provide them with money. Therefore, there are many, many reasons why a country objects to your operation, your corrupt activities. Thank you, everyone, for that.
u2015-04-20-184	I'll ask if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I don't understand Congressman, I don't understand his closing thoughts. Thank you for what? Are you thanking the person who was involved in this? What was he involved in? Corruption? Or his conviction? Mr. Congressman, every week you say something after the agenda, you have to fill your time with something, but there's nothing new you can tell me. Plus, he accuses, he's not telling the truth, he wrongfully slanders honest workers. Honourable Congressman, I think the Democratic Coalition should sweep your own house. Think about why and how much money Ferenc Gyurcsány's company has been entrusted by the European Commission to the European Union's proposals before us... [[To intervene:]] For a lot of money, a lot of money! The Democratic Coalition will certainly be able to be smacked out of that. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Honourable Congressman, Please consider what kind of world we live in. Are you pointing to the Fidesz Members here, while your party president and his own business want to monitor the use of EU funds from EU funds? After a terrible eight-year-old period of governance, whose results we moan to this day? Honourable Congressman, I'm asking you to sweep your own house. In addition, Mr President, I would like to note that even in the previous debate, when Congresswoman Bangón pressed a button and said something in the name of a personal attack, Congressman Gógös looked at me and shouted that it was a shame that I was still sitting here because I stole a billion forints. I want this to be part of the protocol. Congressman's nodding. This, please, is a very rude slander. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The newspaper wrote it down.]] That the paper wrote it down, Congressman? Did you write it down in the paper? The paper didn't write that. I ask that Congressman follow me, because I have never stolen a single forint, let alone a billion forints! It's a disgrace, a disgrace, what you're doing here in Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-20-186	Dear Parliament, If you have any other objections, you should contact the House Committee. Of course, Parliament is perfectly capable of saying political texts. This is how we continue our work, in peace, in friendship. [[Defiance.]] Speaking after the agenda, Mr President Novak, Jobbik, asked for a Green Parliament! It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-04-20-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the year of the introduction of the environmental product charge for the taxation of solar panels, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that in two days' time, on 22 April, we will celebrate Earth's Day. In this connection, I would like to make a few suggestions so that we do not go so far, as regards the functioning of the Parliament. I turned to the Office of Parliament with a public request for information about how much the Office of Parliament spent, including the factions, on A4 papers, on A4 papers alone, and how much paper this means. The answer shows that 7 038 500 sheets of paper were used in 2014 alone, which meant HUF 9 891 316 plus VAT for the Office of Parliament. In addition, this more than 7 million sheets do not yet contain the quantity purchased by the fractions, so we can talk about a much larger item. Why are we here? Because it's electronic administration, it's a shame, and maybe under László Kövér's Speakership, it can't be expected, but it doesn't work at all. While the National Tax and Customs Office has long been able to submit a declaration of assets in electronic form, we received hardware-key computers at the expense of the Office of the National Assembly even in the previous cycle, even though it has a network with the strictest internet censorship, its system to the Parliament, it is practically impossible to submit even a simple document in the Hungarian Parliament in 2015. In fact, the electronic filling-out system of declarations of assets is a powder, because after filling it out electronically, we should not only click on it to send it in, but print out what we have electronically filled in, we should sign it and scan it again. I don't even know what century and what logic it is, but it's pretty amazing. Therefore, Jobbik believes that it would be timely to establish electronic filing and administration. Of course, we also have a number of proposals, let me present them in the headlines. After all, there is a need to expand the collection of selective waste to the widest extent, even the hazardous waste and waste that can be found here to a large extent; unfortunately, we can talk about it in a plural number. [[14.40]] But we could also talk about the modernisation of heating and lighting, because we were very proud of the district heating system that was implemented at the time of the construction of Parliament, the Parliament, but today, when we show our guests around in the midst of some boasting, we often find the overheated rooms typical of district heating. It would have been good, it would have been good - now we can only talk in the past time - to install a modern heat pump for the renovation of Kossuth tér, which could have significantly reduced heating and cooling costs. Indeed, the Parliament should set an example of the most modern building engineering solutions, but we did not see any examples of this in connection with the renovation of Kossuth tér. The most amazing thing, perhaps, is that the smoking station provides comfort to smokers with thousands of watts of heat heaters. So basically they're heating the yard, the public area, the street. It's quite amazing, and apart from the most amazing restaurants we can see, let's say, in some places, that they're still heating public areas, we can't experience that in the country. And let me give you an example: I don't do it often, the Israeli Parliament, the Kneszet [[Dr. András Schiffer: Jesus Christ!]] On top of that - a few weeks of news - solar panels were placed, the 1500 solar panels mounted on the roof are the largest solar panels on the parliamentary building in the world. Of course, you can say that this is a sham measure, because the energy produced on the roof provides only 10 percent of the building's needs, but Hungary is even able to subdue the kneszet, because we can't see it here, even though on the top of the House of Representatives - obviously we wouldn't recommend it on the House of Parliament - it would have been possible for a solar park. As it would have been possible to plant plants on the roof of the building, on the roof of the House of Representatives, it would be more friendly and would have a positive impact on the microclimate. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Wild hemp!]] We'll leave the wild hemp to the LMP, we'll stick to more friendly plants. The water consumption should also be restrained, water-saving taps, toilets, perhaps not to use drinking water to flush toilets. And yes, it would also be appropriate to consider the number and quantity of newspapers coming to the factions here. If the current house management were not busy with the Internet censorship, for example, the most read right-wing news portal, Kuruc.info is blocked as a state in the state, then you could also deal with reducing the use and consumption of paper that characterizes Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-188	I'll ask the representatives of the government if anyone wants to respond. [[For signal:]] Mr. Zsolt V. Secretary of State Németh. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Although you have directed your questions, suggestions and questions to the House's leadership or to all of us, I believe that Earth's Day itself deserves to be mentioned, because it has been held worldwide since 1990, this is the 25th time. A multitude of voluntary movements have grown out of this call, celebrating the Earth's Day all over the earth today, whose main motto is who said you couldn't change the world? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It is also related to this, which undoubtedly raises our personal responsibility for protecting the environment and nature, and that is why I am starting with the idea of a product charge for the taxation of solar panels, and I am saying again and again that we could call this product charge - perhaps even more appropriate - a recycling levy, as they do in the neighbouring countries. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] and similar product prices are indeed being levied in the neighbouring countries, such as the Czech Republic or Bulgaria. Because it is also the solar element, regardless of whether it performs environmental or environmentally friendly functions during its life cycle, when it is finished with its career, it will certainly become the same waste as any other entertainment electronics product with which the European Union has grouped it, and with which we have to account for, how much we distribute, how much we produce and collect, use. However, I can also talk about some joyful data about the holiday, since we have achieved a number of results in recent years. For example, we have spent billions, 300 new measuring stations and laboratory instruments to renovate the national air pollution measurement network. But obviously, this is not what we should be happy about, but the result is that air quality has continuously improved. One of the most dangerous elements, PM10 particulate contamination, for example, has been reduced [[Forebod Novak: Socialists make the air worse here.]] It hasn't exceeded the limit in three years. It was also about selective collection, Congressman. There is also a major breakthrough in this: we can consider January 1 a milestone, when we have been running a selective collection system, which is the main rule throughout the country, now mandatory; in many areas this has been done voluntarily for years. Therefore, for example, the amount of waste, including the amount of paper, has been decreasing for years, the processed recycled fractions... [[The Foreman of Novak: What? Recycled fractions?]] Of course, we are talking about recycled waste fractions. [[Ancient Novak: There are transformations here!]] waste streams for which we can already meet the EU's expectations in the case of paper, plastic and glass. Of course, there is still work to be done, because, for example, in the case of glass, we are not yet able to do so. In the name of the wallet that also monitors environmental protection, allow me, Member, to thank you for your suggestions and, for my part, I consider them all worthy of consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. András Schiffer: Then don't vote for...]]
u2015-04-20-190	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to start with a letter that has upset the people of Bishop's Lady. - Your Honour, Mrs. Mayor. The Reformed Church of Hungary contacted Dr. Judit Bertalan, Secretary of State, Czunyiné, and initiated the Kálvin Square Elementary School, 4150 Episcopalladány, Kálvin tér 8. - Operator: Municipality of Bishop's Lady - transfer of property under number in empty condition. It is necessary to examine the possibility that the property and movable property indicated by the church maintainer may not be provided for by the state, and if they are transferred, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre would be able to and in what way to provide for public education tasks so as not to impose a disproportionate burden on students. This was a detail from the letter dated 13 April, which was received by the Bishop's Lady municipality. I would like to read only one sentence from the letter of the Bishop's Council:. There is currently a living contract between the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre and the Municipality of Bishop's Lady City, which does not allow the transfer of the property. This answer was given by the municipality on the 14th. And then again, the local government received a letter from the district KLIK from the municipality:.I hereby inform you that the Reformed Church of Hungary has contacted Dr. Judit Bertalan, State Secretary for Public Education, and has initiated the transfer of Kálvin Square Elementary School - here again describes the number of real estates - in an empty state. They refer to the 2011 CXC on national public education. Pursuant to law, a maintenance decision to change the place where public education institutions perform their tasks falls within the scope of the reorganisation of the institution, so that the opinion on this request should also be held. Then Thursday, the mayor called an emergency board meeting. You should know that Thursday was the 16th, and the school enrollment started the day before the local elementary school. I'd like to read the decision of the Bishop's Lady Council. And it is important to know that the municipality of Püspökladány is a fidesz-led, fidesz-led majority, with a fidesz city leader, and a fidesz mayor. [[14.50]] The proposal for a decision reads as follows: "The body of representatives of the Municipality of Bishop's Council is the CXC of 2011 on national public education. Law 83. According to the right to comment pursuant to point (h) of paragraph 4 of the Kálvin Téri General School, the transfer of the local government-owned property under the number 8 of the Kálvin tér to the Reformed Church in Hungary is not supported. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. They then called a forum for information to parents, which may have become known from the news reports, and they could not start the information for almost an hour because they wanted to exclude the local media from the forum. A forum where, I think, everyone should know that 327 children go to a well-known school in Kálvin Square. He's well known because we're talking about one of the best elementary schools in Bishop's Lady, which the church wants to get their hands on, so that local parents, local residents, don't want to, and basically, parents faced this issue when they wanted their children to be enrolled in primary school. Rightfully - they know that 327 children cannot be placed in the other schools in Bishop's Lady - we can say that parents have been put in a situation where there will be no other solution, they will be forced to send their children to the Reformed School if this institution is handed over to the Reformed Church. We're not against religion, we're against procedure. Over the last few weeks, KDNP MEPs have repeatedly said that they are in the spirit of love. Then, in the spirit of love, Mr. Secretary, we ask you to leave our school in Kálvin Square in Bishop's Lady alone. We object to the proceedings, just as the Fidesz government protests - leave our schools and our children alone! Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-192	Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Member Jobbik, spoke after the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As we know, in February an immigration debate took place between Parliament's walls. This was preceded by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's karakan statement on the radio. Orbán said that whoever makes a forbidden border crossing, no matter what the reason for it, must be taken into custody immediately and sent back to his country. The immigration debate took place in the light of this statement, but nothing really happened in two months, no action followed the debate day. The worsening refugee situation is escalating in our country, with hundreds of border crossings per day on our southern borders to this day. On top of the situation in Debrecen, it's not news to anyone that there's a full house in the Debrecen refugee camp. While thousands arrived in January, more than a thousand arrived in Debrecen in February. How lying is the statement made by one of the liberal MEPs on the debate day, because he said that refugees are being insulted more, so they are being insulted rather than committing a crime, this statement is being refuted by the reality of Debrecen. We Debrecen know that some refugees are constantly harassing and harassing Hungarian people, especially lonely women, in a drunken state. The gravity of the situation is also shown by the fact that in 2013 several serious crimes were committed in downtown Debrecen, two Iraqi immigrants almost stabbed a young man to death in January 2013 in the main square of Debrecen, and then Algerian campers attacked young girls and held a knife to their throats; in this case, there is a final court ruling. But I could talk about the June 2013 riot, where between 100 and 150 policemen had to go to the refugee camp and caused each other life-threatening injuries. What is also talkative, in an official report by the Debrecen Police Commissioner, he asked a better local government representative that in mid-April 2013 the police took action against the residents of the reception centre for 12 crimes, a serious assault and 14 violations of property. These things have ruffled the mood for years in Debrecen; and also an older news report that 112 million forints were spent to make the refugee camp, the refugee camp on Samson. The latest chapter on this refugee issue in Debrecen is that a notice was posted on the website of the public procurement authority on the expansion of the refugee camps in Bicske and Debrecen. In Debrecen, this means that two buildings are converted into residential units, they increase the capacity of the refugee camp, they want to create new apartments, and this project costs HUF 143 million. I was also interested in Secretary of State Károly Kontra, as well as a representative of Debrecen in the General Assembly of Debrecen from the local mayor, and we were interested in the rumor that they wanted to open another refugee camp in or around Debrecen. The answer was "no" then. Indeed, they will not open another refugee camp in Debrecen, but the government will manage to burden the city of Debrecen and the inhabitants of the city of Debrecen with more refugees. It is true that Hajdúdorogon failed, because the MSZP mayor of Hajdúdorog wanted to open a refugee camp at the request of the Ministry of Interior in the city of Hajdúdorog, but because of the opposition of the people and the people of Hajdúdorog. A number of questions arise: how many refugees can Debrecen take, according to the Secretary of State? What are the longer term plans? Is there a possible further expansion in the plans? The government's well-sounding voices were not followed by action. Jobbik's proposals are still relevant in this matter, and signature collection is also taking place in these days, including for the restoration of the border guards, and for these refugee camps, which are within the borders of a settlement, to be declared closed, and for the refugees staying there not to have access to them. I hope that Secretary of State Károly Kontra will also respond to me and make it clear that the government is taking this step for the Debrecens; and in the long term, it would be a good thing to move these camps outside of a populated area so that they do not disturb the people of Debrecen or the citizens who live there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-194	On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman, I understand you're suggesting that we build more refugee camps outside the settlements, right? That's what he suggested. So far, this position has been unknown to the representatives of the government and the government. I would like to say that the government is taking decisive action, just as it has so far, against illegal immigrants who are living in conflict with both EU and domestic legislation. I would like to say here in this House that 37 127 people have applied for asylum in Hungary until 17 April 2015. If you compare it to the 2014 year-round data, it's 42 777. This shows the problem we are facing. That is why we held a debate in Parliament on 20 February, and that is why the government is initiating both amendments to domestic legislation and amendments to the EU asylum strategy. I would like to inform this House that the EU is scheduled to discuss the new asylum strategy in May. This is also the case with regard to the terrible ship crash last night, and EU leaders, the leading bodies, senior officials and executive bodies of the European Union are also putting this issue on the agenda, because this issue must be addressed. I would like to say to the honourable Member that, with regard to the situation in Debrecen, the police established a police unit within the Debrecen reception centre as early as 2013. Its members ensure the maintenance of order within the Institute with a permanent police presence 24 hours a day. The reception centre and its area as well as its wider environment are divided into ten patrol zones, there is a pair of patrolmen serving every day in the patrol areas, and from now on pedestrian patrol patrols also keep constant checks on public transport in the receiving station. [[15.00]] With four people, the criminal staff continuously carries out criminal raids every day, especially in the area of entertainment and shops in the vicinity of the reception centre. As a result of these measures, the number of asylum offenders registered in the police procedure or asylum seekers in Debrecen decreased significantly: 52 committed in 2013 and 41 committed in 2014. I declare that the public safety situation at and around the reception centre has improved significantly. This is also shown by the fact that no complaints were received by the public regarding the residents of the reception centre in 2014 or this year. I would like to inform the honourable Member that the police continue to serve with an increased presence in the interests of peace and security of the Debrecen. I would like to thank the Municipality of Debrecen County for its cooperation with the police in order to ensure the security of the Debrecen people. I would like to thank the Debrecen for their patience, cooperation and solidarity. I would like to ask the Member to support the measures taken by the Government in order to achieve results on this very important issue, to ensure greater security, so that Hungary is not under the same migratory pressure as it is today. I'm asking you to support the police, support the police budget. I would also like to emphasise that there is a border guard in Hungary; the task of border guards and border police is carried out by the Hungarian police. I would like to thank the staff of the Hungarian police, who, either as border policemen or as policemen, are doing their best to ensure the safety of citizens living in Debrecen or elsewhere in the country. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative of Jobbik László György Lukács, representing Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: the slaves of the health care system: a domestic round-the-clock picture of the nurses. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For the third time today, we are talking about the situation of nurses, and we are doing so because it is a particularly important issue. Of course, not only because this weekend, which is behind us, and the next weekend the nurses will draw attention to the unblessed situation of Hungarian care, but also because it is very important for us to advance the issue of care. After all, we are talking about practically 60 thousand workers who do not have the current working conditions. So I will put my speech after the agenda to the attention of the Secretary of State, because it will contain all the subjects that are relevant and which the government needs to find a solution to. As early as 2003, WHO found that the human resources crisis in health was a global problem. Current forecasts indicate that there will be a serious shortage of nurses in Europe by 2020, with up to two million professionals in this area. One of the reasons for this is that young people prefer to turn to new, innovative disciplines that provide good pay and a continuous development opportunity in line with the requirements of the competition sphere. Admiration and dedication to rapid technical development have therefore reduced the interest in human areas, which can be seen very well, among other things, in the development of the number of students taking part in health care courses. The situation in Hungary is particularly critical, but this otherwise natural phenomenon does not justify it. There are many examples of why it is not good to work in health care in Hungary today, including as a nurse. I'd just like to list a few of these. Despite the mental and often physical strain of nursing work, wages are extremely low. The earner's salary is hard to live on his own, let alone his family. Working conditions are catastrophic. As hospital debt to suppliers is extremely high, there is also a frequent shortage of the most basic assets. We don't sew the button on the coat anymore. We sew the button on the patient, which happened in a maternity ward this spring after the caesarean section. Patients and relatives take care of their problems because of the circumstances, and they are the ones who are in extremely stressful situations, although it is clear that the deterioration of quality did not occur because of the attitude of workers, and nurses suffer the same loss of numbers and tools as patients do. But such a problem, for example, is the lack of appreciation, which affects both social and health workers, and is not new - it is much more due to government attitudes than to industrial development or anything else. Let us not think that the people involved are just sitting back and waiting for the miracle and not doing everything they can to improve their own situation. The profession has put a number of proposals on the table of current governments - unfortunately in vain. Through the media, the population has been reached, but it has not been able to put enough pressure on decision-makers. Their cry for help was not listened to by politics, so more and more nurses see that they need to leave either the profession or the country to thrive. As early as 2008, the Hungarian Health Association of Professional Workers - short cut MESZK - found that at least 6-8 thousand nurses were missing from the system. As the nursing profession is currently one of the most sought-after jobs abroad, and the situation at home has not been seen to improve for years, this number has now increased. Health transformation has been hanging in the air since autumn 2014 - but what was still promising at the time has now turned into a nightmare. They promised me a health-care career model, a pay raise, but I don't know where, what, and when. For example, it is still not a question of whether nurses and nurses taking part in further training will always receive their salary during the learning period; it is still not a question of starting a scholarship programme for college students and apprentices; it is still not a question of encouraging workers to work with early retirement. They do not talk about how tax-free benefits are or will be at all; it is still not about whether, for example, caregivers can benefit from preferential health care without waiting lists. The latter could be extremely important, since under the circumstances, the organization of nurses is consumed by stress and overload. Please do not be indifferent to this problem, precisely to those who need your help most. Being a nurse is a calling, and it has a lot of beauty in it. Let this profession be beautiful again, despite the tiresome work. There will be insurmountable consequences, Mr Secretary of State, if the situation is not settled by settling wages, restoring respect for the profession, improving working conditions and increasing public spending. Improving the situation of nurses - improving the situation of both workers and health professionals - will no longer be tolerated. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I want the government to take immediate action to get this started. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-04-20-198	On behalf of the Government, Mr Retvári, State Secretary, wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government not only considers that every minute from now on we must strive to improve the situation of the workers here, whether it is nurses or doctors, but since 2010 - perhaps from 6 May, or I don't know exactly when the government was formed, perhaps in June 2010 - we believe that there is already a situation in health that requires increased wage increases, increased attention and increased development, whether it is the ambulances, as the National Rescue Service has noticeably had more budget support than before for 4-5 years; whether it is hospitals, where hundreds of billions of HUF developments have been made in hundreds of locations in the last three years or are now ending, in these months; or whether it is the payment of health workers, which we have tried not to raise on credit, but also to increase health wages after the real performance of the economy. Obviously, we still have to increase for a long time, so we still need economic growth for a long time, but as we have done for teachers, we have started the period and period of wage increases for 95 thousand people working in health care. In 2012-13, an additional payment of HUF 76 billion was made to employees and their salary increased by 27 percent. Of course, everyone would obviously like to give this multiple to doctors, nurses, we too strive to continue this work in the coming times, but the Member also began his post- Agenda speech with the fact that the world is characterised by fewer and fewer people choosing such a profession for themselves, and fewer and fewer people are willing to give their lives for others. For this is more than just a job, this is often not only a physical but emotionally trying situation when dealing with patients every day, or even on call, and spending the rest of the night with the patients. For this reason, the trend around the world is that fewer people in welfare states are turning to this level of education. This is why it was important to introduce the residency scholarship, which holds 2,500 young doctors who have already graduated in Hungary, or a scholarship grant of more than two billion HUF for nurses from this year to help those who are ahead of the career choice to choose the nursing profession. [[15.10]] Either the possibility of introducing apprenticeships for employees already, or even the 2,300 new vocational training institutions, which also provide nurses and other staff for hospitals and healthcare institutions, have been launched. And I could give examples to the Member, but I would just like to say that we have tried to move forward in all areas of this sector, even in the area of waiting lists, in the area of hospital debt, but obviously in four years there is a certain limited part that we have been able to do. But it wasn't this government that wanted, say, to introduce a visitation fee, or, taking 13 months' wages, it reduced the salaries of public health workers by 8 percent, but we tried to return two or three times the salary to all health workers. I think not only last weekend and next weekend, we need to pay attention to the fate of the nurses, the pay conditions of the nurses, the working conditions of the nurses, the condition in the area of the service apartments, which would be incredibly much improved, but also every day of the week and every weekend, because the person who visited the hospital or the hospital, his friend or his relative, sees what superhuman work they do there. We want to contribute to this with our own financial means, with as much money as possible from EU funds. This year, compared to last year's budget, we have tried to spend 6 percent more on the health sector, or from the chips tax and other revenues directly on health wage development, the resources that the government receives from the contributors. I trust that this will be a sustainable salary, a sustainable income for the health sector, and I also hope that the news on health will be about where, how and under what circumstances the government has decided to pay the debts of hospitals accumulated over the decades and in a similar mass for about four to five years, since this is the first government in recent years, decades, which is really trying not only to settle the debt of hospitals, but also not only with fire, but also with surface treatment, but also in depth. This will make it easier for all those working there, both in wages and in working conditions. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-200	Mr. Balázs Ander, did you apply for a speech after the agenda, Mr. Parliament, on the back to the railway? Or a few sentences about the plight of the Somogy county sidelines. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the honour of Mr Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, The low-flying of Somogy County, which has been severely disadvantaged during the decades, is well demonstrated by demographic, sociological and economic indicators. Since 1980, the county has lost one eighth of its population, since its population has dropped from 360,000 to 315 thousand. Its demographic potential has collapsed and, as far as rural regions are concerned, ageing has grown to a particularly worrying extent. In terms of average wages and average pensions, we are also among the last in the county ranking, and employment indicators are also extremely bad in Somogyország. The inability of the countryside is well indicated by the empty 21,000 residential properties and the many thousands of emigrated young people who do not find the perspective in their homeland. Obviously, it didn't happen by accident. Infrastructural deficiencies that deter investors, entrepreneurs, contribute greatly to the growth of problems. As far as roads are concerned, it is enough to refer to the catastrophic state of the network with a state reserve of 1660 kilometres, as some 700 kilometres of this network should be immediately renewed, whereas the current annual renewal quota represents only 5 percent of the required length, but we are not better on the railways either. The success figures of the government propaganda often refer to the main rail lines, which are renewable from so-called EU funds, but are modestly silent about the fate of the wings that are vital for the survival of the countryside. In the absence of renovations, the fate of the sidelines which are necessarily decaying seriously affects the lives of tens of thousands of people and the future of dozens of villages. A few very clear, concrete questions can be answered in this connection: what is the government's aim is the 54 km long Kaposvár-Fonyód, the 100 km Kaposvár-Siofok built in 1906, the 9 km Somogyszob-Nagyatád inaugurated in 1890, and if not the MÁV, but the 150 km Nagykanizsa-Gyékényes-Barc-Szentlőrinc-Pécs lines, which have been the main line for the quarter million citizens of the region directly affected since 1868. When, how much do you want to spend to fix these lines? How long are the trains moving at 40 kilometers per hour from Nagyatad instead of the promised 80 kilometers per hour? And it would also be nice to know how much longer travelers between Budapest and Kaposvár have to cross Dombóvár when travelling by train. When can you finally travel between Budapest and Kaposvár without transferring, more conveniently and quickly? What do you intend to do about reopening the Somogyszob-Balatongyörgy line? Wouldn't it be more reasonable to deal with the freight traffic of truck traffic destroying roads through this? After all, in our county, road 68 was awarded a high-risk accident rating by Balatonszentgyörgy-Böhönye-Nagyatád-Labod and the section of Görgeteg-Barcs, which is still further south. Transport policy is expected to increase the share of energy- and environmental-friendly modes of transport in the division of labour in transport, which in Hungarian means the transport of goods by road to rail and inland waterways. However, only 18 percent of the current annual turnover of about 50 billion tonnes of goods is involved in rail transport, which, according to the EU's 2011 Transport White Paper, should be significantly increased, and we, as EU-sceptic parties, can agree with that. But it seems, and it doesn't hurt to know, that the concept of fixed-track public transport is precisely that the main lines remain, and the sidelines are simply not counted in the long term, and this has been the case since the 1960s and 1970s, which have been cursed by rural wing lines. Please change your back to the wing lines. On a slogan, and please don't let the sidelines that are important for the countryside be held together in winter by frost and in summer by weeds. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-202	On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I hadn't heard back my own sentences, I would say that it is always a pleasure to hear from classics, but Mr President's comments after the agenda also show that the maintenance and maintenance of Hungary's 7600 kilometres of railway network is a high responsibility for all governments in a marketable condition for posterity. The railway lines of Somogy County, as the state of the railway lines in other parts of the country is known to all of us. You mentioned that at some point in the 1960s and 1970s, the trend that, by the way, followed a European trend which proved to be wrong, thought that the motorway network would solve everything and that the large international transit lines would remain virtually for rail transport. This was very soon proved not to be true. It is a cliché, but it is true that Western Europe is living in the renaissance of the railway, Western Europe, and the countries with seaports in particular have recognised 20-30 years ago that neither in the bulk of freight transport nor in the bulk of passenger transport, which occurs at the same time, the fixed track nor the railway can be ignored. At the same time, we both know that the European Union, in the field of transport development, provides resources exclusively for TEN-T lines, i.e. for those international lines whose operation is, so to speak, a greater interest in the region or pan-European interest. At present, funds from EU funds can be spent mainly on urban and suburban traffic, or not primarily on non-international lines. The latter is also very significant in Hungary, since on the 11 suburban lines, and if I count the 3 HÉV lines, today nearly 70 percent of railway passenger transport is involved on 14 suburban lines, and on these 11 prelines there is a very significant part of the revenues of the MÁV, somewhere between 75 and 80 percent. [[15.20]] So the EU support that we can devote to this very important sector is not insignificant, but it is not a solution to the problem raised in your question. For this reason, money should be used mainly from domestic sources, domestic budgetary sources, whose main weight in the foreseeable future also focuses on higher traffic railway lines. However, since you asked Somogy County, allow me to deal with Somogy County in the first place in the government's response, which does not mean that the other region of the country would not be an urgent task in this regard, but you have quite rightly mentioned Somogy. The renovation and development of the infrastructure started in September 2014 at the Budapest-Székesfehérvár-Gyékényes-rail line in Lepsény-Siófok-Szántód-Kőröshegy. The project amounts to HUF 30 billion net under the New Széchenyi Plan as part of the Transport Operational Programme, co-financed by the Cohesion Fund. Within the framework of the project, a new two-track track between Szabadifürdő and Zamárdi is built, a noise barrier wall is built in Balatonvilágos, Siófok and Zamárdi for 4 kilometres, and a noise and vibration dampener can be found at 17 kilometres. He knew the train was basically going in inland. At Siófok Sailing Street there is a road underpass. Balatonaliga, Szabadisóstó, Zamárdi top standers and Balatonvilágos, Szabadifürdő, Balatonszéplak bottom and Balatonszéplak top stops are built on high platforms. The renovation of the 32 km long section will be completed by summer 2015. As a result of the renovation, not only the journey time will be reduced, but also the quality of service will be increased. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Time!]] The second phase of the renovation, the IKOP financing between Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy is expected to start in March 2016 and will be completed in December 2016. Thus, the running time between Budapest-Keszthely and Nagykanizsa is reduced by about 20 minutes for the 2016-2017 schedules. Together with the time gains linked to the completed reconstruction of the Budapest-Székesfehérvár section, the capital will be almost 45 minutes closer. The construction of the Dombóvár-Gyékényes railway section of Dombóvár-Kaposvár also started in 2014. The reconstruction of the crossing tracks of the Bate-Csoma-Sabadi section will take place in the summer of 2015. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The works will continue in 2016 - I apologize, I will finish this sentence [[Defiance.]] - so the running time of the fast trains between the two cities is reduced from 37 minutes to 20 minutes before the renovation. So we have plenty of answers, so please do this... [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-204	So much so that the President had completely forgotten the answer - for which I apologise to the Honourable Parliament - as he listened to the entertaining and important answer. But I'm not gonna beat that on anyone else. I'm sorry again. Mr Sebestyén Vágó applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Elderly Supply." Here you go.
u2015-04-20-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say a few words in my speech after today's agenda on elderly care, the situation and unsustainable situation of older people. In the introduction, I will tell you what I will say in every part of the series, that the profession awaits the social career model, which is now promised for many, many years, for January. I believe that when I see it - so is the profession. I believe that if I see how this is going to happen, whether it's actually good for the people in the sphere or not. This also affects those working in the care of the elderly. We are well aware of the change in nursing older people at home in the past period: the number of points has increased at the cost of home assistance, which we, as I have repeatedly said, are concerned about, since we cannot raise a condition for a certain benefit until we can meet the 10 points need below, those elderly people cannot be cared for in their homes instead of or before having to take on a more specific, specialized care. However, if they need to take more specific and specialised care, they need to talk about the situation of older people in nursing homes and the situation of staff working there, whether in nursing care, nursing care or mental health, or even management staff, about the difficult situation they are in now, what they are dealing with. A few years ago, the legislation changed, and 40 points became the point of need assessment that allowed these elderly people to enter the nursing home. Before getting involved, you should know that the institution to which you applied has introduced or has not introduced the cost charge. Let's talk a few sentences about this cost. Walking around nursing homes, I find that even managers or maintainers are in a difficult situation, they do not know whether or not to introduce this cost, whether they are entitled to, not according to law, but on a moral basis, to ask for this cost or not. If the cost is requested, whether it is provided to those from whom it is requested, a higher level of care or not to provide a higher level of care. Maintenance of the institution is also a serious argument for the introduction, unfortunately, because in many cases these institutions can only be maintained if this extra cost is requested from the elderly who are there. And speaking of applying and getting older, unfortunately, since the introduction of 40 points, we have found that elderly homes - sorry for the ugly expression - are slowly becoming insane, because 40 points also means that an elderly person who enters in has a minimum of 4 hours of care. The kind of old-age work done by nursing staff and mental-hygiene staff at the time can be forgotten, unfortunately. Once again, older people who are not in a state where they have 4 hours of daily care, but need some level of mental or other care, cannot meet their needs. What does that mean? It follows that, unfortunately, older people who meet this condition - in many cases we are talking about demented elderly people - also lose the possibility that, in addition to older people who are in better health, even more recent mental state, their development or keeping them at their level can be better achieved by introducing special programmes where these older people in better mental condition actually help to keep or develop their fellows in sicker or worse condition on joint programs. And if we were looking at the conditions of entry and making it difficult, or if I could even say that elderly people in nursing homes are in need of more care, then we need to consider whether the number of staff under Regulation No 1/2000 meets these more specific conditions. In many cases, even before the 40 points were introduced, I have found that people who have chosen this profession are working under trying conditions. Now that older people in basically have worse mental and health status in these homes, it becomes even more unsustainable from a professional point of view to a nursing home due to a shortage of numbers, and in many cases - although we know what the wage situation is, they are still working - because of the limit on the employee quota, because of its low number, they cannot create these conditions. I think it's time to change that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-04-20-206	Mr Retvár State Secretary wishes to respond. Here.
u2015-04-20-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fact, I thank you very much, Mr President, because we all think that people who are in a situation for some reason in which they are no longer able to provide themselves, need some external assistance, and in many cases this can only be the State for reasons of health care or other reasons. However, what is important to me - and it can also affect the legislation of the years or decades to come - is what we have adopted in the Fundamental Law, that it is not only the responsibility of the parents to support the children, but also later, when the parent becomes in need, and the child can take care of himself, and even have financial opportunities beyond that, then it is also necessary to take care of his own parents. I think it's a fundamental moral principle. For this reason, many people may say that it does not belong in the Fundamental Law, but that it is natural. [[15.30]] At the same time, it is important that this principle is laid down for everyone at the basic level of law, and it is even more important that this obviously affects the practice of the Constitutional Court and the legislative agenda in the coming years. The fact that the funds must be spent for this purpose is not disputed, and therefore, if the Member compares the 2014 and 2015 budgets, he sees that, if I look at the social area in its entirety, not only the elderly, but everything else, including public employment, there is now a figure of 411 billion instead of a lot of 380 billion. So this is about a HUF 30 billion higher in budget expenditure. This is how we started the wage development of workers in this sector last year, on 1 January, with a sectoral wage supplement worth HUF 12 billion, and since then the negotiations - to which the Member referred - are still ongoing - are the introduction of a career, which is realistic at the moment as of 1 January of next year. The draft budget for next year will soon be on Parliament's table, and in that debate we will all be able to check and see if there is a wage increase here in the next year's budget, which is obviously a career, so it will also impose obligations on those with professional qualifications, a kind of salary increase that is obviously to be compensated for by a high level of professional work. As regards the two specific amendments to the law or amendments to the legislation, as the Member mentioned, one is the point system for home assistance that we have increased the value of the points needed for entry. You did not mention two important points here, Congressman. One of them is that it happens in an up-and-coming system. Therefore, those who have received home assistance at the time of the introduction of the regulation will continue to receive this benefit in the same way, so that they are not subject to the new rules, but only in an emerging system. However, what we can see - and we have gathered this from the experience of social workers and professionals - is that in many cases they do not ask these professionals or social workers to perform tasks that are appropriate for their qualifications. After all, cleaning the pool, tidying up after the slaughter of pigs, mowing the lawn, walking the dog, giving up the lottery ticket is not the kind of request that requires a social degree, and in many cases this kind of task has been used for this otherwise professional social service. That is why we have said that it should be helpful to those who really need it, not to those who really want to buy or walk dogs or give up a lottery ticket, but to those who really need care. Helping to clean at home, helping someone to move well in their apartment or to do any minimum exercise at least, so the state gives this support, home assistance as a source for activities that have not changed in the budget, so that scores have increased, but will be available by the same number of people, because they have the same amount of resources. What I wanted to say, honourable Member, is that our aim in this amendment was to increase focus. It is not to be used by fewer people, but to be used by those who really need it; it is not to cost less to the budget; it is to receive this budget resource, which we have kept as much as in the previous year, for those who need it. In connection with the fee for entry into nursing homes, you said dilemmas, and I think it's right that these questions should be decided locally. Where appropriate, in accordance with the specialty of an institution, or in the light of the individual circumstances of a person who wants to be in an elderly home, the State does not centrally state which aspects should be striqued, strictly interpreted, but has a much wider discretion for the head of the institution. We think he can see better than we can define that for him. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-208	Dear Parliament, For a post-election speech, Mrs Dóra Dúró applied with the title "School closure wave" in the post-election year. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2010, as a newly elected representative, I was amazed to hear it, when at the meeting of the then Committee on Education, Science and Research, one of the pro-government representatives said, of course, that in the year following the election there is always a wave of school closure, which follows entirely from the logic of politics, and what surprises us that this is the case. We can see similar events, even the Neptune Street School or the Raoul Wallenberg Medical Training School, but we can also talk about rewriting the vocational training framework. In the case of the primary school on Neptun Street, we are talking about 290 children, 65 of whom have special educational needs, and they have to face the fact that from September they cannot go to the school where they currently spend their daily lives. It is very important that people, educators, children and parents are normally treated for such a transformation, if necessary. The situation at Raoul Wallenberg Medical Secondary School is even more serious. It is quite simply that the building lies in a place that the National University of Public Service needs. We know that this University of Public Service has extraordinary privileges in terms of higher education. We see your latest case when the Higher Education Act was amended by the government at their convenience. Because what happened in that case? The University of Public Service had a dispute with the MAB, and then, to appeal the decision of the MAB, Zoltán Balog turned to the University of Public Service. Zoltán Balog, a competent minister, confirmed the decision of the MAB, and after this, the University of Public Service still did not like it, another minister, János Lázár, made a bill that took out the possibility of starting a doctoral school at the University of Public Service from the hands of the MAB. But the attitude shown by the University of Public Service in other respects is amazing. Clearly, we are talking about a political university that grows into a small ball of higher education slowly and in other respects show such an amazing prickly attitude, which, I think, is outrageous. Dávid Janiczak, mayor of Ozd, contacted Rector András Patyi, as a training of the former Zrinyi Miklós National Defence University works in Ozd, and he wanted to meet with the Rector about the future of higher education in this case as well. Then András Patyi told the mayor that he did not wish to see him now or in the future. I believe that this is an attitude that does not advance either higher education or the future of Ozd, even though in the higher education strategy it is stated that there will be daytime higher education in Ozdon. The Raoul Wallenberg School is therefore expected to be combined with technical and construction schools due to the needs of the University of Public Service, so 1100 children studying health professions and educational professions will be placed in conditions where this sector does not have an infrastructure background, but, once again, they will go to technical and construction schools. KLIK previously denied that any restructuring would take place in response to the parents' request. All this time, they said that the future of the school and the future of the children was assured, but if it was up to the KLIK's attitude, then, of course, students could not hope for much good. I'd like to shed some light on that with a case in Miskolc. One of the primary schools in Miskolc, whose operator is KLIK, has been waiting for months to replace a fluorescent lamp, where children have been studying every day. Then the school was satisfied with months of paralysis from KLIK, so they told Zoltán Pakusa, the local government representative of Jobbik in Miskolc, who wrote a letter to KLIK to be happy to replace this lamp. A week after the letter from the betterman, the lamp was indeed replaced, and the director was told in private at the KLIK not to rush to the betterman's representative, to inform them of the problem, even though this had happened months earlier. During my visit to one of the vocational schools, the head of the institution asked me to tell me the truth, but not to mention his name, because in KLIK, they also snapped at their heads when they dared to talk about the real situation of the school. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I believe that such party-based operations should be completed by both the University of Public Service and the KLIK and that real solutions should be given to the real situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-210	Secretary of State, please.
u2015-04-20-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You have set two examples in the country, Congresswoman. One of them is an example where you had your problem, as you said, with the better politician there, the head of civil service at the University of Public Service didn't talk to you. [[15.40]] The other was an example of Miskolc, where his problem was that when a better Member spoke to KLIK's civil servant or civil servant, the action took place. In one case, your problem is that one head of the institution does not speak to the better Member, and in the other case, that only the better Member will be heard by the relevant civil servant. [[You don't understand.]] So everything and the opposite of everything is also a problem according to Jobbik in the countryside. I do not say, of course, that it would work without any problems, which is precisely why we have tabled our bill that we have carried out an internal restructuring of the KLIK's content, precisely so that such tasks, primarily related to operation, will be smoother, better reflected in the responsibilities, and that they will be able to come to the help of the schools more quickly on site when there is a need to change light bulbs or any other issue. But that is why we have also changed the system of textbook provision, because now there is a longer period for teachers to order these textbooks; the possibilities are clearer not only for textbook managers, but also for everyone else who can look at these different documents. As regards the issue of schools, honourable Member, there was a period in Hungary, fortunately past, during the socialist period, when schools were closed in the countryside, small post offices were closed, wing lines were cut off and 2010 had to come. [[Dr. András Schiffer: When this happened again...]] Fidesz-KDNP government is able to restart a large part of those schools [[Dóra Dúró: How many have been restarted?]] We believe that these schools have a much more important role to play there, which is why it is important that we maintain them and that these schools, the re-opening of small schools, can continue to operate in rural areas, which have been closed in the Socialist regime. Here, too, if we look at the two examples in Budapest, which are obviously different than those small settlement schools that Fidesz-KDNP opened again, well, so this is also a kind of preliminary opinion assessment. You know very well, Congresswoman, as you are well aware of the law on the system of national public education, it is stated that the maintainer, the CLIK, must know the opinions of the students, the opinions of teachers and the opinions of parents and the opinions of the school board before drawing up its own opinion. There are two different cases, one of which has been known to replace a secondary education institution, a higher education institution. Obviously, it is necessary to resolve the circumstances under which those who are there can, where appropriate, be further trained in another institution if this decision is taken. On the other hand, in the case of Neptun Street, you know that it is a building with a utilisation of less than 50 per cent, which is not owned by the state, it is owned by KLIK, but by the municipality, and the municipality as owner, as operator, has indicated to KLIK that, since half of the capacity of this school is not being used - you said here too, I believe that there are about 290 students in the 570 capacity building, which is why you sought KLIK to conduct a consultation on the possibility of restructuring. And there is a period of pre-decision consultations in these institutions. But this is all done by clearly maintaining the capacity in Budapest, especially for children with special educational needs, especially for everyone, the municipality, and KLIK, to see what happens to them. So this is a pre-decision period under the law, and I say, more precisely, the period prior to the establishment of a maintenance opinion, since this turn is also included in the Public Education Act, before its opinion is established by the maintainer, before it makes its decision, it will carry out these consultations. But it is also important to include the guarantees in the preliminary consultation that all students have the opportunity to continue their studies. You know that the Raoul Wallenberg Human Secondary School - not a medical school, but a human high school - has also announced recordings, so that education continues according to the order of life, only at a different location. Since the school is not only VIII. district children go not only from the area to Raoul Wallenberg, but also from, say, 30 percent of the countryside and only from all other parts of Budapest, so obviously the change of venue is less difficult if they can continue training in the new place with the same quality and the same quality. In addition, I believe that if this consultation takes place, then we will be in a position to make a decision about them at all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-212	Thank you, too. For some, it is fortunate that, according to the rules of the house, the president-in-chief is not allowed to take part in the debate. Therefore, you have no other task than to announce that after the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, from Jobbik, has applied for a speech with the title of Szigetköz for the longest time. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Well, it's a subject that was quite rare in the previous term, because in this area, the government itself formulated a multitude of conflicting opinions, depending on which wallet the State Secretary or Minister belonged to, who he represented. Well, a few of these cases could be raised in this cycle, but let's get back to our original topic. The problem of Szigetköz started with Bős-Nagymaros and the planned investment. Let's not go into this now, and it could be argued whether Hungary should have agreed to the investment itself, under such conditions, but the fact that, after the project was completed in 90-95 percent standby, the shutdown was definitely disastrous. I do not want to waste time going through the story here, how we got to the C-variant, how we got to the point where the debate with the Slovak party has not been settled to this day. I would add in parentheses, however, that even if the Slovaks changed their minds by some miracle and exercised a great gesture towards Hungary and transferred 100 percent of the water to the Hungarian section, the situation would not change substantially. For the groundwater level has fallen so low that it is already necessary to take technical measures. The islanders have been waiting for a very long time for the current governments to address this problem, there have been many promises made, but the attitude of the governments so far shows that, both during the socialist-liberal governments and the Fidesz government, the main concept of the current management, the professional, was to sweep the matter under the rug and to deal as little as possible with the request of the islanders. As a result, a popular initiative was launched in the middle of the previous cycle, initiated and helped by the Győr-Moson-Sopron County newspaper - which I thank them for - and which we good people, as civilians, were proud to join, because at last the people of the island and the people in the region felt that they would no longer listen to the promises of governments, but that they would take their fate into their own hands and try to do something about the Szigetköz. Eighty-two thousand people signed this popular initiative, which resulted in a debate on Szigetköz here in the House. This is where the interesting thing comes in the story, as we have seen that the Ministry of Rural Development at the time was quite an amazing and quite opposite position, as we have seen from any of the main wallets, but here the Ministry of Interior must be highlighted in particular. This is thanks to the fact that, at that time, Parliamentary Secretary Elijah represented the position of the Ministry of Rural Development, who represented an unprofessional and dark green attitude between the walls of this House, which, I believe, is unprecedented. He even had a huge fight with the representatives of his own faction. Well, I think it's enough for me to tell you one story about Mr. Secretary's attitude to understand how we shouldn't have taken his arguments so seriously. When the county newspaper asked him why the government didn't do anything for the people living on the island and for the water supply, he said he didn't understand the problem. This is what the newspaper journalist said, for example, that tourism has a very serious negative impact on the current low water situation. The Secretary of State Elijah told them to take an example of Hortobágy, because there is no water there, and yet there is a tourist. Well, that's the cynical attitude of Fidesz that marked the problem, and that's what I'd like to confront you with. Now that Secretary of State Elijah has been removed and is no longer in good company with him - and indeed, the former Secretary of State makes quite a tough statement about your environmental policy; I would add that he is absolutely right when he makes these criticisms - then it may be worth resuming this issue. And maybe it makes sense to talk about it, because if you've got the elements out of you, the opinion-makers who've been the biggest obstacle to solving this problem, then maybe we can trust that the issue will finally be resolved. It has a negative impact not only on tourism but also on the everyday life of inter island people, we could talk about agriculture, local industry, sports opportunities, nature, environmental protection, energy production, and even the emergence of invasive species are closely linked to this issue. It is also worth mentioning the water supply along the Rába, as they did not take any action at the request of the Village Association of Lower Rába. A number of requests were made there, as inter island water supply also affects these settlements. [[15.50]] I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State, if there is any answer, when, by what means, and by what investments, the inter-island water supply will finally take place. I would ask that there should be no more misconceptions, no more talking into the air, and no more mention of projects running now, because they are completely inadequate. On behalf of the islanders, I look forward to your meaningful response. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-214	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pogács wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The first attempts to solve the problem of inter-island water supply can be made in 1995 after the Hague Court ruling. The fact is that the diversion of the Danube, the decrease in the level of small water in the area of the Szigetköz caused extreme damage to the groundwater level, and the significant decline in the water level has greatly damaged habitats, and in many cases makes it very difficult to restore and correct the situation. A programme was launched on the water supply of Szigetköz, during which, based on the EU proposal launched in 2011, the ecological improvement of the floodwater replacement system on the side of Szigetköz was launched. The essence of this development is that, with the rehabilitation of the wavewater branches, the watery habitats will be restored to the water they need for their lives, and the state of nature will be restored. The programme will be completed this year, while another programme was under way, which ended in 2014. Together, the two programmes provide the opportunity to develop water levels corresponding to the 1950s. This is about the state of nature that creates the necessary living space for both plants and aquatic organisms in the Isle. Appropriate flushability is established, and the flow rate will also ensure that water is of sufficient quality in this water space. We intend to rehabilitate the estuary of Mosoni-Danube in the next cycle. This will allow the sunken groundwater levels resulting from the sinking of the floor to rise back to the above mentioned extent. In addition, we plan to rehabilitate the Mosoni-Danube water level, protect the flood protection and water supply of the upper-Danube sub-region systems, and finalise temporary works in this project, as well as expand the main branch and tributary connections in order to correct the damage caused during the flood and reduce the impact of the flooding. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-20-216	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "For Justice" after a hundred years of denial. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-217	Mr President, Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XX In the first years of the century there were 2 million Armenians living in the Ottoman Empire. On the night of April 24, 1915, the Ottoman government collected 250 Armenian intellectuals and executed them. This was the beginning of the Armenian Genocidium, and the beginning of the Christian genocide. The events known by the Armenians as Meds Yeghern, known as the Great Sin, also known as the Armenian Holocaust, took place during World War I, estimated at 800 thousand to 1.5 million Armenians. Turkey, which had been declining for at least a hundred years and then joined the world war on the side of the axis powers, considered ethnic minorities and religious minorities unreliable, and obviously also needed a scapegoat because of the current weak military performance, the defeat suffered by the Russians. As early as 1913, the special organization Teşkilat-ıMahsusa was established, which from the beginning was intended to eradicate unreliable ethnicities and organize this. In the autumn of 1914, they filled their ranks with law enforcement criminals freed by amnesty, and the special organization, according to many, can be regarded as a model of the German Einsatzgrupps. Enver Pasa, Turkey's general, explained the defeat of the Russians on the Caucasus front at the end of 1914 by betraying the Armenian population. In February 1915, he ordered the army to transfer all Armenian soldiers from armed service to labor. It's been a regular group killing of labor workers. During the war, Armenian men were recruited in a very large proportion. Women, children, and the elderly followed them, who were sent to the Syrian desert for death marches. These rounds were supervised by military personnel, and those there were dying of hunger and thirst. In addition, large pogroms and cruelty were used, poison gas, poison injection, drowning. In the autumn of 1915, a law was passed on the confiscation of the goods of the masses sent to their deaths. Before that, on May 29, 1915, the so-called Tehcir Act, the Deportation Act, was born, and at the same time, Enver pasa decrees about the labour service were issued on the same day. One of the first modern, industrialized methods of genocide is the Armenian genocidium. In 1944, a Polish lawyer Raphael Lemkin created the concept of genocidium. More than twenty countries in the world officially acknowledge that genocide took place in Turkey a hundred years ago; unfortunately, Hungary is not one of these countries, and we will therefore initiate the Hungarian Parliament to acknowledge as genocide the massacre of the Armenians. As early as 1987 and 2005, the European Parliament defined the events as genocide. Last time, Pope Francis was the XX. On 12 April, he called the events the first genocide of the century. Back in the day, Theodore Roosevelt was president of the United States as the greatest crime in World War I, and Winston Churchill called it an administrative holocaust. Dear Parliament, What happened a hundred years ago or began in Turkey against the Armenians, the Armenian Christians, this process, the concepts that came back, the concentration camp, the labor service, they came back in the bloody years of World War II, the Holocaust of World War II. It is no coincidence that the overhearings are attributed to Hitler at the time after the Polish annexation, when he said, "Who remembers the Armenians today?" It is therefore important to remind, because what happened in 1915, was repeated a few decades later, the genocide of the industrial method against religious and ethnic minorities does not simply concern the specific group of peoples, religious groups, but a warning signal for all mankind. Historical facts, of course, can and must continue to debate, but it is not possible to relativity the genocide, as this will make ourselves defenseless. CHAPTER XX It teaches us exactly that if we turn off the human immune system against methodical killing, we will say no at the command of life. From now on, such murders may not only be the victims of Armenians, not just Jews, not just Gypsies, but also any ethnic group, any religious group. This is why we believe it is important for Hungary to acknowledge what happened in 1915, the Armenian holocaust was famous for its Armenian genocide, when almost 1.5 million Armenian, peaceful Armenian citizens were murdered in Turkey. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-218	Dear Parliament, Representative of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, has applied for a post-meeting speech:, What about the World Heritage? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The question may arise as to what is common between the Taj Mahal and the thousand-year-old Abbey of Pannonhalm, the pyramids of Memphis and the Aggteleki-karst, or what is the view of Buda, the view of the two sides of the Danube, Andrássy Road and the Galapagos Islands. Obviously, it is not surprising to most people that they are all part of the world's heritage. These are all part of mankind's universal culture and natural heritage, but so are the Chinese great wall, the ancient Christian tombs of Pécs, the Tokaj wine region or the cultural landscape of Fertő subject to this international convention. [[16.00]] I did not mention a Hungarian world heritage, Hortobágy, the Hortobágy cultural landscape, of which the full scope of the Hortobágy National Park Directorate is also part. This World Heritage Convention was established in 1972 and is now signed by 180 countries, with 1007 cultural historical and natural values. Eight of these fall on Hungary, which I have tried to introduce, but in my speech today I would like to talk about Hortobágy. It is important to talk about Hortobágy because the processes that have taken place over the past few years can, in principle, endanger the preservation of the cultural landscape that has made it possible to attach to the world heritage. The foundation of the national park dates back to 1972, and the park itself was established on 1 January 1973. It was the first national park in Hungary, practically preserving the natural values there as a cultural historical landscape was the priority objective and task of the then government. The Hortobágy itself, as a landscape of world heritage, extends from Hajdúság to about the Tisza line, including approximately 2,500 square kilometers. But obviously, the world heritage announced in 1999 makes this more limited and tries to talk about the outstanding parts. But now this world heritage is at risk for many reasons. Obviously, in recent weeks, there has been a lot of talk about the problems of farming and maintaining the landscape, how grazing livestock, traditional plumbing or extensive livestock farming have narrowed down, and how it is becoming increasingly problematic to drive the livestock of many livestock farmers out into these salty grasslands. Similarly, the problem is that you are the Gene Keeper Kht. in fact, with a very doubtful and not too favourable leader, it seems to be a political organisation, and the aspirations of maintaining indigenous Hungarian domestic animals and the conservation objectives, local employment is becoming increasingly less and less important in the activities of the Gene Keeper. It is also interesting, I, along with many others, like to criticize the government between 2002-2010, but we have to say that the Hortobágy lake economy closed its activities with a serious profit in 2009, with a billion-dollar reserve at the time of the change of government, which now operates with serious losses, because incompetence and management incompetence characterizes its everyday activities. The residents of Hortobágy also report on the problem of the fact that the settlement of the world heritage and the centre of the national park, where the symbol of Hortobágy, the Nine-hole bridge, is also located, is in a worse and worse tourist situation, is becoming more and more difficult to welcome, and the possibilities of ecotourism have been significantly reduced. Thus, the livelihood of this small settlement, the local detention and employment of the locals are obviously a problem due to the problems of tourism. There is a long list of tasks related to world heritage conservation that are now in second place, and there are now, but I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the World Heritage Convention works in such a way that it can only be added to that list. If a world heritage is destroyed, the values that created it will remain on the list forever, only crossed over by a line to symbolize that the nation that did not preserve these cultural and natural landscapes of world heritage and humanity could not preserve how it acted. In Hungary, Hortobágy can be the first to be at risk, and I would like the Hungarian Parliament to deal with this as effectively as possible. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-20-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, spoke after the agenda, with the title "Quality Hunger." Here you go.
u2015-04-20-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Terra Eco French magazine has recently reported some remarkable international research results. The topic of research was to compare the nutrient content of today's fruit and vegetables produced in mass production with those produced in the 1950s. Since 1997, dozens of studies have been published in the United States, Canada and Britain, all reporting a reduction in the nutritional value of our food. In the last 50 years, even our so-called healthy foods have been reduced by half to a quarter of their vitamin A and vitamin C content, as well as protein, phosphorus, calcium, iron and other trace elements. According to an academic at the environmental department of a university in Paris, one apple contains a hundred times less vitamin C than in the apples of the '50s. According to Canadian researchers, 17 of 25 species of plants and fruits tested are rapidly reducing their vitamin A content. According to research from the University of Texas, broccoli from southern Italy contained three times more calcium and six times more iron than today in the 1950s. Today, wheat, maize, and soybeans have much less zinc, copper, and iron than they did 50 years ago. In 1942, one kilogram of potatoes contained 25 times more iron, and in 1942 there was five times more iron in cereals. Not only do we humans, but our animals feed on these lower-inhabited crops, so we can't be surprised that today as much meat has iron content as it was half a century ago. If, on the other hand, the plant and animal products that we consume are of lower quality, human beings also have reduced nutrients. Several factors can be blamed for the deterioration of the quality of our food. These include quantitatively and qualitatively dying soil, compulsive growth in fertilization, plant nutrient solutions, reduction in genetic diversity, application of plant protection products, harvesting in too early, immature condition. Feeding plants with nutrient solutions is not a substitute for ecological services provided by healthy soils, which, instead of using them wisely, are rapidly revitalizing the soil. Another factor in negative results is the generation of varieties in which selection is mainly aimed at enhancing resistance to pests and improving rapid growth capacity. Synthetic plant protection products, which give the impression that they protect plants from pests, also reduce the activity of plant reactions to pests. Not least, we must mention that, because of trade around the world, for the sake of salesability, we are harvesting our vegetables and fruits before their intrinsic value could have become complete. Dear Parliament, The above points sharply to the paradoxes of today's thinking.1. Today, almost one billion poor people do not have enough food on earth, but there is no record of how many quality-starved people there are on our planet.2. Today, the world is increasingly similar to a spectacle bakery, where the beautiful and large exterior covers an empty, worthless interior.3. Since the goods are weighed to weight or sold to pieces on the market and the buyer then pays, it is possible to sell empty internal sales, which is a gross damage to the buyer. 4. In a world where money and, as a result, economic growth are the standard, empty internal sales are mandatory, since it has a beneficial effect on economic growth. First, we need to consume more to get enough food. However, since we cannot eat a hundred instead of one apple to eliminate our vitamin C deficiency, we must artificially replace the missing nutrients. Not apples, oranges, broccoli, and the rest, so we eat, but expensive pills, which, of course, benefit the pill-producing economy. And there's also a fifth time that I won't tell you. But in the end, I would like to say that in a world of growth, the best thing we can do is to do wrong, because the solution to the mistakes we make keeps the economy growing. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-20-222	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative of the LMP, Mrs Bernadett Szél, applied for a post-meeting speech:.. Don't forget the government's civil servants. It's an address. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2015-04-20-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A civil servant from a small settlement came to me in a letter, and I would like to convey this letter to you now. I was disappointed to write down my grievances for you and the situation of a village servant like me. I was sad to note that it was very humiliating that government officials received an Easter Erzsébet voucher in recognition of their excellent and persistent work. I'm not sorry about them, but I find this distinction painful that civil servants couldn't fit into this framework again. I believe that the civil servant of the small settlement also works with the same honor, skill and conscience as the employee of the district office. The task is usually shared in small offices, and there is plenty on our shoulders. At the same time, you need to be aware of the process of registration, the activities of the population register, the use of the public workers, the promotion of the work of the body of representatives, and I would like to give you a list of our tasks. We know people in Falun, they know us, we keep receiving customers, we never send anyone away when we're in the middle of some laws. An official working in large city offices usually performs one task and everyone adheres strictly to the time of customer reception. I don't have a problem with that either, I'm happy to do my job, I'm happy to help someone, I love a variety of jobs and challenges. In order to carry out this task, I also undertake overtime, because I am not looking at the job, but at my calling. So far, I've been optimistic, and I've taken note of that particular wage arrangement, career model introduction that will take place sooner or later, but I've lost my optimism today. Although the media say that the salary of government officials will be settled in 2016, I am afraid that we village officials will not be involved in this, just as they forgot about us at the Erzsébet voucher distribution. If the Parliament discusses the increase in the salaries of government officials, please also mention the civil servants! Dear Parliament, This letter also shows the uncertainty among civil servants, and this is not surprising, since the events and news of the past weeks have not been about them. I think that civil servants rightly fear that they will be left out of the 30-50 percent wage increase promised for July 2016, even though the government is already half a decade behind their wage increase, and indeed their situation remains uncertain. Dear Secretary of State, The government must admit that this procrastination policy cannot continue. A significant wage increase is needed among civil servants, civil servants and government officials, and no one can be excluded from the wage increase. And before the target date comes, that is why I am raising my voice today so that this woman and many others will receive the wage increase that I think - and I trust that the whole Parliament agrees - that they have the right to do so. I think it's the least I can do, it's the government's debt, and it's definitely time to settle it now. The LMP has also repeatedly pointed out that it is quite simply impossible to make a living on income earned by work in the context of Hungarian earnings, and the public sector is no exception. In addition, I am saddened to see that the situation has not improved in recent years, but even deteriorated. Seven years ago, we've been talking about frozen wages that have lost a lot of value. Today, the wages paid by public service workers are, in particular, a quarter less than in 2008. Those who have been left out of sectoral wage-raise programmes are now virtually part of the working poor people, and this is very unworthy. I think that this is why it is important to make it clear from the government right now whether the increase in wages due from July 2016 will include non-governmental staff, i.e. whether everyone will benefit from it in public administration. My question is also whether wage measures before the introduction of a career model will affect civil servants. I look forward to the Government's response and the government's standing alongside civil servants, civil servants, government officials and the public sector in general.
u2015-04-20-224	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the Honourable Parliament that the Ministry of the Interior has indicated that she will respond in writing to the Member. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech entitled "The future" instead of a pipe. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-225	Mr President, Dear House, When I drew up a draft of my proposal for a new agenda for the private institution of bankruptcy, I had to realize that there were still a number of issues that we had to deal with. For example, I spoke at my host hour with a board-house professional who also suggested this extension of the institution of private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy protection, so with your permission, I left my original drafts and, along a very topical, very acute problem, I wish to speak in the interests of those who are in the most difficult situation in Hungary as credit-damaged. It is indicated that they are offered two institutions by the government. One of them is the National Asset Manager, where assistance or not assistance is usually provided at the discretion of the failing bank. The other is the family bankruptcy protection that government parties have been pulling since the 2010 election campaign; KDNP was the first of the current governing parties to take the initiative in this respect. It could now be said that so many wasted years have caused harm to families, Jobbik has once calculated this: a few tens of thousands of forints of foreign exchange credit damage was caused by the government's failure to settle this issue in 2010, including exchange rate changes and other expenditure incurred since then as interest-based costs. We must therefore say, beyond that, that the private failure, the institution of family bankruptcy is a good thing, and the introduction of this in a fair form can significantly help those who have been injured by credit, but it is important to clarify some of the issues that have been raised - I repeat - only in press reports, since the concrete bill has not yet been discussed by the Hungarian Parliament. However, without clarifying these details, it is very difficult to decide whether this institution will help or intervene. For example, there are some things that Jobbik can't agree with in any way. It may arise that KDNP or Fidesz is appointed as a bankruptcy trustee, or we call it a bankruptcy administrator, you can give instructions - obviously voluntary participation in the system, but if there is already a fail-safe, you can give instructions - to sell the holiday home, sell the family car, whether the tuition is payable to the child or not, or whether the treatment can be started for the elderly family member. And here, on the basis of a foreign model, there was also the possibility of remote supervision of bank accounts, in Hungarian, of keeping the families concerned under constant control, who, although they may volunteer for this program - hopefully as you imagine - but the question arises, however, of what kind of sovereign life management will be possible at such a level. We see very extreme examples in this regard. The Irish model can simply have the family cancel their satellite TV subscription and engage in day-to-day spending, which, in our view, is inconvenient. But there is a question of what will happen in the case of condominiums with residents who, by their own fault or by way of a large number of others - because they are in a difficult situation as credit victims - have accumulated a large amount of debt, such as common costs or other similar types of debt. Overall, the institution of private bankruptcy, family bankruptcy, could be of great help to them as well. Let us not forget that we are talking about 100-120 thousand people in Hungary alone! It is therefore absolutely expected that, in addition to the credit-damaged ones, or by broadening this circle with them, we will be able to make sure that anyone who has missed the common cost due to, say, the increased threefold increase in the repayment of the loan in Hungary - and this can be justified - can receive this type of assistance. The principles of Jobbik's private failure are a little different, we imagine the solution along two pillars. On the one hand, we would like to put a family helper next to every applicant family free of charge, and to ensure that this legal person - once again, a free-of-charged person - helps to convey to the creditor financial institution a new, now fair, clean-of-financial waste contract and agreement, with reduced repayments, even longer term. As another pillar, we consider it essential that free re-training programmes lead as many people as possible into trouble back to the labour market. Obviously, these two pillars would be able to work together. Jobbik, after the end of the five-year period, wants the victims to be freed, no more debt, no more sovereign leadership. My question is therefore self-evident. How much openness can the government show regarding these points? And does he have the courage to stand up for the victims, once and for all, in the face of bank interests? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-20-226	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond. Here.
u2015-04-20-227	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Not for the first time and not for the last time, we are talking about the protection of family bankruptcy between the walls of Parliament, as we have already responded to the Members' questions, interpellation or speeches before and after the agenda in this matter. [[16.20]] As far as I know, the bill on family bankruptcy of the Christian Democratic People's Party may be submitted to the spring session of the Parliament, so we will certainly be able to discuss the motion for family bankruptcy in detail. I would therefore like to draw attention to just a few aspects that the Ministry of Justice and thus the government consider important in the matter of family bankruptcy. The first thing that should always be stressed is that this is a voluntary institution, an institution into which the debtor voluntarily enters and voluntarily assumes the obligations for which he otherwise receives reliefs from his debt, for example, if his debt had been due in a single amount, then the lump sum due is obviously suspended. Therefore, it is better to say that, after a certain number of cancellations, you do not have to assume that the creditor can claim the entire debt, but will remain a scheduled payment obligation for the client, the debtor. The other such facilitation is, of course, that its incomes are not being implemented. The examples mentioned earlier by the Member, which are typical of spending, spending on everyday life, the implementation process, may give the debtor incomes that the executioner may detract from, since, when examining, for example, what income to a debtor stays in his bank account, of course, of those incomes may include, in particular, compulsory debts, such as the payment of child support or the debts necessary for the conditions of life, and these costs, and it is obviously not possible to take into account costs that would already be deducted from the income placed under enforcement. So what I'm trying to say is that family bankruptcy also allows the debtor to rank his own expenses and prioritises what he can give up and what expenditure he can save. So the most important rule, I think, in the case of family bankruptcy, is that the meaning of family bankruptcy protection is to restore the solvency of the debtor. Thus, it is not in any way the purpose of family bankruptcy protection to be exempt from the legal consequences of its debt, to be exempt from the legal consequences of breach of contract, since in general we are faced with a credit agreement or a breach of some other debt contract; the aim may not be to cancel this obligation to pay by family bankruptcy, but rather to restore the defaulted solvency of the debtor. By the way, this is a completely different kind of bankruptcy, so let's say, even in the case of an entrepreneurial bankruptcy, this is the primary goal of restoring solvency, getting the debtor to breathe and solving his temporary problems. You are right that there will be people who are not having temporary problems with payment, who are not temporary problems with their financial situation, but who are persistent. In this situation, family bankruptcy will not be able to help, family bankruptcy can help in a case where, with some reschedule, with some patience, with a certain delay, debtors will be able to fulfil their obligations. I ask you very much that you do not create unfulfilled illusions with this family bankruptcy, that you will not be able to help everyone in family bankruptcy, that you will be able to help those whose solvency can be restored. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-20-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varga, representative of the MSZP, has applied for a post- Agenda address:. Who are they supporting and why? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-20-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There was already talk about MVM and MVM sponsorship and advertising issues, so the question could also sound like who and why the MVM supports, since the news has recently come to light that the annual budget of the MVM group in this area is about HUF 10 billion. This is one of the most extensive companies in Hungary, about a third of what MOL can use for similar purposes, for example, which is a company of similar magnitude. In 2013, the largest item of about 5 billion dollars was transferred to the Hungarian National Film Fund under the supervision of the Government Commissioner Andy Vajna, but we can also discover on the recently published list players from the contracts concluded until April 2014 such as Mahir Exhibition and Event Ltd., Hung-Ister or even 550 million items called Vivaki. These advertising spendings are of an amazing magnitude, and in the last four years they have been about tenfold, and this number is quite amazing, and in 2009 it was worth 165 million - I quote - the volume of advertisements, it was already close to it last year, only the ads, the one and a half billion. The first half of 2014 also clearly brought this level. The MVM group has provided support, advertising opportunities for numerous local government media, including the Hungarian Nation, Weekly Reply or the Hungarian Hírlap, as well as numerous Hungarian sports clubs appear in the advertising and sponsorship policies of MVM. I have also heard an immediate question from my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, about the fact that the support system for sport policy also raises questions for MVM, there is a suspicion that these grants are specifically targeted at political decisions. The MVM also appears as a cultural patron. From the list you can see that many governments supported close performers, while large past festivals received less - or not at all - from the MVM framework. The question is who decides on these issues, as we are talking about some HUF 10 billion, an amazing scale for a public company. Who decides how the envelope for MVM's advertising and support activities will be used? Who really decides on this issue? - I'm not asking formally. Who decides which organization will receive support and how much can it receive? Let me say here, as my fellow Members, as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, that there are many successful sports clubs in Miskolc, there are many successful cultural events for the city, some of which you have heard about in terms of cultural events: an opera festival, a tavern festival or an increasingly successful film festival. These events are not supported at the appropriate level by public companies, and thus by MVM. Let me say such outstanding sports clubs in Miskolc's life as the teams of DVTK and the hockey team of the Miskolc Ice Bears, which is now well-respected, which has also become champions, MOL League winners and cup winners. It operates MVM heating plants in Miskolc, with revenues of HUF 10 billion in 2012 and HUF 7 billion in 2013. This revenue is obviously provided by the forints of the Miskolcs, but the support of the MVM, its sports and cultural mecena, and its advertisements do not appear in the life of the city. Therefore, I strongly urge my fellow government Members and members of the government to take into account this legitimate expectation of Miskolc, the legitimate expectation of Miskolc public life and public opinion. Miskolc is on the floor, Miskolc has heating plants, the MVM has reason to demand that MVM support sports clubs in the city and the cultural life of the city. Thank you for listening, Mr. President.
u2015-04-20-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 27 April 2015. I thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:30 p.m.]]
