u2015-06-29-0	[[The people in this room are standing up to welcome the citizens' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 1st meeting of the 3rd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will be able to assist me in leading this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, In 2012, the National Assembly declared 29 June, the day of Péter-Pál, a memorial day for farmers who had been destroyed during the Kula mission, the beginning of the harvest and the celebration of peasantry, according to old tradition. In its resolution, the Parliament condemned the cruel persecution and discrimination against the Hungarian Central Peasant during the communist dictatorship. In addition to the symbolic gesture towards farmers and their descendants who have been ruined in dignity and humanity, the important purpose of the Memorial Day is for future generations to know exactly who they were and what trials the farmers labeled as kulaks have experienced. We must not forget the sufferings of people who have been humiliated without sin, without penance. The sent-out filled the souls of those affected with such fear that many did not dare to tell their own family or children their story, and they still dare not talk about it. At the same time, young people want to know what happened to their grandparents and great-grandparents. There are also some once ruined farmers for whom this is the only satisfaction to remember their ordeals. The mission started with the communist takeover in 1948, when the Stalinist Rákosi regime launched a harsh fight against the Hungarian agricultural society, with every effort to destroy the traditional peasant lifestyle. In the crossfire of the attacks, according to the Soviet pattern, the more efficient peasants who managed to farm in larger areas and more than average, who could be kula in the early 1950s under the pretext of saying that anyone could have been kula in the early 1950s if he became undesirable to the Communists or wanted to acquire his wealth. The Culas were called the enemy of the working people, the last remnant of the capitalist system, and their systematic persecution began. The ultimate goal of the road-side propaganda campaign against them was to eliminate them. The measures taken by the authorities to do so have been brutal and inhumane. They could do anything to send them to forced labor camps, fine them, sweep their attic, and commit various forms of humiliation against them. Over 400,000 farmers were convicted by the courts during this period. In the meantime, the supply, the irrationally imposed burden, has made the middle-parastic layer financially impossible. Many farmers fled their lands, some were beaten to death in their homes, others lost their lives as a result of physical abuse in prison. The Kulas were a curse, while these people were the defining personalities of their settlements, who understood their profession and built an exemplary farm as a good farmer. Collaboration is one of the most insidious crimes in Hungarian history. Its perpetrators demonized innocent people in a false, lying way, they crushed the foundation of Hungarian society. Honest, decent people and families, generations, have been destroyed, and they have suffered incurable wounds. The most true of the state of the age is the poem of the poet John Székely, entitled Nothing Never: I remember words / and kulak lawsuits. / Camps, opened letters, / and tapped phones. / To a people that fear persuaded to worship his killer. / I remember my life, and / I remember my father in prison. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government today, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó has applied for a speech entitled "One of the most serious challenges facing Europe." I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-29-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is perhaps no exaggeration to say that Europe has not faced so many extraordinary challenges since the end of the Second World War as it is now, because there is a war on our continent, territorial conflicts in the neighbourhood of our continent cause serious problems, there has never been such a high level of terrorist threat in recent decades, the continent continues to face economic challenges, and there is also one of the greatest illegal immigration pressures of all time. The latter was the subject of last week's meetings of the European Council and the Foreign Affairs Council, which is why I asked to speak here today at the plenary session of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that the decisions taken by the European Council last Thursday and Friday correspond to the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. We need to know that we are faced with a phenomenon of migration, with which we must look at both at European and Hungarian levels in the longer term, and I think that the events that have taken place so far underline the right position that the solution to this challenge should in no way be sought within the territory of the European Union, but outside the territory of the European Union. What are the four points in which agreement has already been reached or has remained as a decision point? Firstly, it has been decided that the issue of refugees should really be separated from the issue of economic immigration, and that economic immigration should be blocked even outside the territory of the European Union or at the latest in the so-called front countries, Italy or Greece, and that a final decision should be taken on who has fled or who is an economic immigrant. It is important that Hungary is not in the same basket with Italy and Greece, because the first European Union country where economic immigrants or immigrants enter the territory of the European Union as a whole will have to send these immigrants back there later, and it is clear that those arriving in Hungary have already passed through at least one EU Member State, whether Greece or Bulgaria. [[13.10]] The second important point is that the European Union's external borders must be protected. Hungary is doing everything it can to protect Hungary and protect Hungarian people from illegal immigration pressure. Of course, we are not in a good mood to build a fence on the border between Hungary and Serbia, it is not about Serbia, it is not about our bilateral affairs, but today the number of those who have crossed Hungary's border in this year has risen to 66,474, and 65,934 of them have arrived in Hungary through the Serbian-Hungarian border. This illegal immigration pressure must be blocked, and at present it seems that a physical barrier is one of the best solutions to this. Thirdly, the idea that a geographically balanced solution should be chosen has finally gained civil rights at the European Council. So far, everyone has been talking about immigration pressure coming through the Mediterranean, and no one has been willing to take into account the fact that, through the Balkan inland immigration route, there are as many people arriving in our region as there are in the Mediterranean. This is why it is important that, like the Valletta conference, we have a Budapest conference where the leaders of the European Union, the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East can meet and discuss this issue. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the issue of refugee quotas has not yet been settled definitively, although Greece and Italy have received assistance under the EU's decision, 40,000 asylum seekers are accepted voluntarily by the Member States, but Bulgaria and Hungary are subject to special consideration. Of course, we also had to fight for recognition or recognition that it would be an impossible situation if immigrants were brought to Hungary from countries to which fewer immigrants had already arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, at the last Spring European Council, it was decided that reception and quotas operate on a voluntary basis, and it is in Hungary's interest to stick to this original decision of the European Council. I would like the Members of Parliament's parties to take note of this information, on the one hand, and, on the other, to be able to continue a constructive debate on this issue in the coming period, which will undoubtedly be one of the most serious challenges facing Hungary and the European Union in the coming years. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-2	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speeches from the political groups are now taking place. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group.
u2015-06-29-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard, over 60,000 asylum seekers have entered the Hungarian border. I would like to point out that it is also an important fact that nearly 90 percent of this is no longer in Hungary. It is therefore clear that there is an agreement between the Hungarian Government and other participants in the European Council that asylum seekers are not expected to be sent back to Hungary, but the price is that Hungary keeps them here, captures and registers those asylum seekers who cross the border. I think that this is an important procedure, which, on the other hand, needs to be examined as to whether the conditions and the conditions of the person to whom they are subject are given. The events of the last few days also show that thousands of asylum seekers have been caught by the Hungarian authorities, who are now awaiting the consideration of their cause. We don't think it's the answer to that. We think that in solving this problem, the fence will not give us a solution, but it will increase the fear of people, and the statement that the Minister of the Interior issued here this weekend is that these people are asylum seekers, infectious, do not approach them, do not touch their clothes, while these people need to be dealt with. That is why I ask my fellow Members to accept, negotiate and accept the package of proposals submitted to the Parliament by the Hungarian Socialist Party, which is about strengthening the Immigration Office from HUF 22 billion, strengthening the supply organisation, strengthening the border police. After all, if this deal is reached, then these people who are here must be cared for, for the safety of the Hungarians and for their health, for the health and decent treatment of the children and parents who are now in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group.
u2015-06-29-5	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The KDNP also supports the government's foreign policy on migration. Hungary's significant foreign policy success is that the Hungarian opposition to the established refugee quota has found support at European level. Refugees must be supported in the spirit of Christian Democratic principles, but those who come in the hope of economic livelihood and a better life must protect Hungary and the Hungarian people. Today's migration is a process of migration that needs to be addressed in the longer term. The only solution seems to be to protect our borders, otherwise we will not be able to hold back that populous mass, the multimillion-dollar population that is heading for our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-29-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In the debate on asylum, the socialists and liberals in Hungary once again proved that apart from the multicultural praise and the puffing of liberal tops, they really do not have any real answers to the questions that really affect and interest society. With regard to asylum, what the government has shown in recent years or in recent days and in recent weeks, it is possible to praise them, because they have proved that Hungary, together with Bulgaria, may be subject to a special procedure; if the Hungarian government feels that it is in extreme danger, it can even fight for the Hungarian national interests, it can fight out special treatment. This means that Hungary would have had the opportunity to obtain special treatment from the European Union on other issues, such as in the case of unscrupulous liberalisation, privatisation or the transfer of national powers and in the delivery of Hungary towards water-headed and contrasted European Union bureaucracy. Of course, this also happened when the Hungarian government liquidated the border guards in Hungary years ago, transferred their tasks to the police, these tasks clearly cannot be fully carried out by the police under the current conditions, and, of course, also the distinction between refugees and immigrants, which worked as a practice in Hungary, was charged by the government. I am very pleased that you have finally realised that this kind of attitude, which Jobbik has proposed in this regard, is to be appreciated. It would be time for Hungarian foreign policy and Hungarian diplomacy to reflect on the real cocaine of this current migration problem, the role of Hungary, together with its Western allies, in the development of a series of crises in North Africa and the Middle East, with a kind of consequence of migration. It is time to rethink Hungarian diplomacy! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, LMP Group. [[13.20]]
u2015-06-29-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, He spoke on the title "The most serious challenges for the European Union." I think it is time for us to face the extent to which the global policy of the past 15-20 years is linked to this wave of immigration. There is no way around the question that what has been going on in recent years in the Middle and Middle East and North Africa is indeed in serious connection with the problems that Hungary and other EU countries have to face. It must be seen that it is not possible to interfere in the lives of certain regions, while the so-called enlightened West has no plan of how life goes on in these countries. It is time to face the fact that war policy has such consequences for countries that are otherwise at peace. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I fully agree with what the Hungarian Prime Minister said at that time as opposition party president in 2007. Orbán said that there is no independent national road in immigration policy. I can continue to say that Hungary, by its size and location, is interested in having a deep and functioning immigration policy within the European Union. We can therefore welcome, of course, what you have just announced, that Budapest should organise a conference on the resolution of the migration issue. However, since it is a global crisis, where Hungary should be warned that it should not be the symptom, but the reasons, it is unacceptable that the Hungarian budget contains virtually nothing in 2016 for international development programmes. And one more thing: a very clear distinction must be made between refugees and immigrants. The laws that are now being presented and which are awaiting adoption, however, mean that Hungary also refuses to help those who are really fleeing from the throat of death to Hungary. You can't do that! Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Group Leader Antal Rogán, Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-29-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A few months ago, when we spoke for the first time in February about the increasing migratory pressure on Hungary and also affecting Europe, my opposition colleagues considered this matter to be something that was not worth talking about. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think you may have noticed that this is what Europe has been talking about since then, and the Hungarian government has noticed this danger in time. And you may also have noticed that Hungarian citizens also consider this important, honourable Members. I would like to announce to this House that more than one million people have already participated in the national consultation initiated by the government, together with letters received by the end of the weekend and questionnaire replies to the Internet. So over a million people considered it important to express their views on the migration situation and illegal immigrants. And based on the previous processings, more than 80 percent of the respondents requested or demanded significantly stricter measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Here remains the big difference between our fellow Members on the left and us. Because we do not want to take in immigrants, we do not want to spend money on migration camps, we want to close the border. We want to close the Hungarian border and also the external borders of the European Union before migration, ladies and gentlemen. Because that's what this is about right now. I think that we should therefore not support the proposals made by the Socialists, which are simply pro-immigration proposals, which are about how to build even bigger camps here, how to accommodate more people, but about spending money on the technical border closure and closing the Hungarian border before immigrants and the migration of people. Ladies and gentlemen, We will support these proposals, these proposals from the government here in front of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches before the agenda. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP Group: The national bourgeoisie is built on the Offshore Knights.
u2015-06-29-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week has two winners, one is István Garancsi and the other is Andy Vajna. Last week, the Parliament adopted an amendment embedded in a package of traffic laws, which re-allows commercials that can be installed on lampposts. Where are the good old times when Jenő Manninger and others were underestimating how ugly the board forest is and the road safety risks associated with advertising on lampposts. Now this world is over, as another stage in the gang war in a market, Lajos Simicska will be replaced. Erik Bánki presented a bill for online casinos, one of which could be two winners, of course Andy Vajna. Dear Parliament, The fact is that the policy that they have been pursuing for five years now, by means of government, so to speak, the national bourgeoisie, suffers from several serious, far-reaching mistakes. One is that those of you who are talking about will not invest in R &amp; D or renewable energy sources, will not contribute to development, these people will not contribute to strengthening the ability to raise domestic capital. On the other hand, we're talking about people with different offshore fibers in their background. If we look at the business net of Garancsi's MET, the ownership of the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, goes to Cyprus. In Andy Vajna's net, there are various Nevada, Delaware and Curaçao offshore fibers. In Andy Vajna companies, offshore owners drew HUF 3.5 billion in dividends over four years. This is about two and a half times the Hungarian government debt has gone out of this country to various offshore havens in the last 25 years. It is a matter of making a clear distinction between economic offshore, i.e. those which hide ownership in well-known tax havens and legal offshores, the ownership structure of which is not transparent. In recent years, LMP has put clear proposals on Parliament's table to banish both economic and legal offshores from Hungary. We have made clear demands to clean up the offshore knights from the area of state life, public money, public wealth. Of course, you did not support this. But why would they do that, because they also apply double standards for immigrants. There is also legislation on immigration: for those who have nothing, it is worth so much. But the more they're worth, the more they've got offshore companies. This is why the settlement bond business, for example, is divided by Caymanian intermediary companies, between HUF 50 and 60 billion per year. The news has come to light this past week that you do not want to expect a minimum of living. At the same time, while you can't even know, they don't even want to show people how much the living minimum is, we know exactly that Garancsi's MET pays the owners 50 billion forints a year with the cheap gas business. We know that the tax loss in Andy Vajna's pocket is about HUF 10 billion plus. It is, ladies and gentlemen, that the stakes of the gang war are to appoint the true winners of the national bourgeoisie. That's two crimes committed at the same time. On the one hand, Hungarian socio-economic development is not about the fact that the principle of performance prevails, they do not favour small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, those who build them without friendly government help, they invent something, they create world news for the country, where appropriate, but there is a division from the central power field. And there's no wonder they're unscrupulously submitting a Freedom of Information Bill amendment to devolve the division from the central power field. Just be careful: after 2018 the curtains will be replaced with bars. The other problem is that there is no national bourgeoisie here. What national bourgeoisie are they talking about? ! Is it a national bourgeois who owns a mailbox in the Cayman Islands? Are you talking about the Caymans' national bourgeoisie? It continues to be the case that the current government in Hungary is supporting entrepreneurs who are sucking the life force out of it, but only increasing the amount of income that has been pumped out. Hungary has an offshore government, and this offshore government risks the value-creating capacity of the Hungarian national economy. That's what these two legislative proposals last week are all about. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2015-06-29-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, He talked about a lot of things in a lot of ways, and I can't answer anything. I may be able to do a lot more in another round, on another occasion, but I have only one thing to do right now, to answer the bill you mentioned, and that is what I'm trying to do. Article 12 of the Road Transport Act. With regard to the amendments to Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, it would be important for the Head of the Group to read all the provisions. [[13.30]] Because it is not possible today to place a signal, signal, other objects and equipment capable of distracting or otherwise endangering traffic safety. In the law, the ban on the placing of advertising equipment on public lighting electricity and telephone poles was proposed by the Parliament's Economic Committee, and the regulation can be integrated into the legal system. Without prejudice to the general rules of the law, the amendment settles the re-regulation of the area, as well as the general ban on the placement of advertising plates. Compliance with provisions at principle level is not at all violated by the legislative amendment and, given the practice of recent years, there has not been any circumstances on the basis of which road safety aspects should be changed in a different way. On the transport policy side, I don't think there's much more to talk about. So, today and in the future, it will be prohibited to place signs which pose any threat to citizens on the roads. I cannot answer the other things mentioned in your comment [[Zoltán Haughty:]] But believe me, the most important thing was that the amendment that we have adopted will in any case continue to improve public security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give the floor to the leader of the group.
u2015-06-29-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply shocked at what the Secretary of State has just said here. I really wanted to talk to you about something else, but I just can't help myself. By making public economic legislation, they take property from a company, by law, and then there's a change of ownership, and he gets the same license that was taken from someone - and you then read a justification? You've got to be kidding me. But I'm not surprised because you've been doing this for the last five years: you're trying to give your own oligarchs personalized legislation to ownership or position and money. Let us be honest, today on this list, which concerns Europe, this is the least of the problems. In particular, if there is a national problem, this is what you are doing. There is another real challenge that is worth talking about, namely the national responses you have given to an existing challenge affecting Europe in recent months. I would like to remind Mr Rogan Group Leader, who says that there are two worlds against each other: there are people here who want to protect the country, and there are people who want to protect bad immigrants. I would like to say that it would be good for the common sense to come, which is about, ladies and gentlemen, that if such a simple problem can be answered, then all you do at the moment is to compete with the extreme right, who can give a very primitive, dumber answer to a long-term problem that affects the whole of Europe. This competition must not go because it cannot be occupied by another corner, but not because it concerns the future of Europe, and perhaps a responsible government should act responsibly. If you look at the last month and a half, the national consultation, the campaign of hatred itself and the question of the fence, you have said everything about this that you are not acting responsibly on this issue. The Honourable Head of the Group says that we are talking only about values. On the one hand, it is very important to talk about values, because if freedom means putting up a fence and being free, I would like to say it to you, then we should lock ourselves up. The fence that does not mean anything today, and does not mean anything for the next year and a half - unless someone builds it through your network of contacts, as we hear - I would like to say why Parliament does not include in the series the budget amendment that specifically provides HUF 22 billion to border police bodies now, provides the means, provides human resources in areas where the security of all Hungarian citizens can be guaranteed. But I would add that you have another responsibility, and you forget to talk about it: in Europe, the Hungarian government must also guarantee the possibility of free movement, and this is not mentioned. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Should we flood them back?]] You keep talking about a lock-in; so far you have not asked for help, and now Minister Trocsányi is asking for help from Europe. Everyone sees the need to fight for European values today, and so should you. You shouldn't be competing with Jobbik, it's not about the votes, whether you can get a few hundred thousand votes today with a hate campaign that you're doing! Talk about the future. What is the future for Hungary? Is it the future in which Europe's centres will eventually break down and become peripheral, or will it be a country that knows that it will only be able to overcome this situation with a common European solution, and that is the only way it can secure its future in the world as Hungary? To answer this question today, the answer today is that there is no fence, Mr. Secretary of State, because no one will believe you that today the existence of a fence that intimidates society gives you a sense of security and will drive citizens under the government's aegis to protect it. We need specific operational assistance, and you don't talk about it. You refer to polls, you refer to your national consultation, but you do not talk about ten years, you know what, not ten years from now, what challenges Europe will face in two years' time. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and Hungary with it. They are irresponsible if they do not choose to act [[The president's ringing again.]] if they use fewer demagogues and think more about professional solutions. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, responds to the speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-29-19	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. At the same time - despite the fact that we may disagree on many things and perhaps on most things - I thank you for raising this issue once again at Parliament's plenary session, because we certainly agree that we are facing one of the most serious challenges for the future of the European Union and, in particular, Hungary, so every dialogue and opportunity to talk about it, I think it is welcome, despite the fact that there is a far-reaching departure from each other. Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me to address the government's position on a few basic issues. You are talking about the fact that one of the most important values of the European Union is free movement. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Back off!]] Among other things, the free movement of people, but I would like to draw the head of the group's attention with great respect to the fact that this free flow does not concern freedom of borders. [[József Tobias: Nobody said that!]] So it's a fence, a temporary safety barrier that we build on the border between Hungary and Serbia [[József Tobias: When will it be?]] It will prevent violations of the law. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He won't! He doesn't know!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the 65,934 illegal immigrants who arrived in Hungary this year until Sunday evening did not do that by going to an open border crossing point, handing over their passport, the border guard handled it, and then came over; this is the legal, law-abiding way of crossing borders, which the European Union is also talking about, the free movement of persons. But here's the fence, the temporary border lock, the illegal border crossings, the prevention of border violations. And we may have a debate between ourselves - and you may be in opposition, we are in government - about whether this is the right solution, but over 65 thousand illegal immigrants in six months, I think it is justified that we set up a physical barrier to this. And what we are doing in Europe is not unprecedented, Mr Group Leader, because Bulgaria has built a fence and is continuing to build this fence on the basis of information from the foreign minister. There is also a fence on the border between Greece and Turkey. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There they are!]] Spain protects its cities in Morocco with amazing technical solutions. And if, say, we look further away, so beyond the ocean, do we see that the United States is more decisive - or harsher? - apply a solution when we talk about the border between the United States and Mexico. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And 80 percent of marijuana goes through there.]] Dear Chief of Staff, I would also like to tell you that we place a very important emphasis on the distinction between political refugees and illegal immigrants. [[13.40]] I think we have a consensus on this, and it's right. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Talk about the migration of young Hungarians!]] If there is agreement in this case, because we see that from every hundred immigrants who arrive in Hungary, the situation arises in 8-9 cases, that their asylum application is indeed justified, and that it is indeed coming because his life or his family's life is in danger. And from this point of view, I think we should ask ourselves, Hungarians, together, for anyone to lecture us from a political or moral point of view, because when it came to the hundreds, thousands of people who were really running for their lives, during the South Slavic War, Hungary accepted them, whether they were Croatian, Serbian, Slovenian or Bosnian. So when it comes to political refugees, when we study Hungary's history, we see it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You guys are making a wall.]] that Hungary has always given refuge to those fleeing for political reasons. And I would also like to draw your attention to one more important question, Mr. Head of the Group. I do not know whether there is agreement between us that this issue should basically be dealt with outside the territory of the European Union. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Inside will be the fence!]] That is why I think it is very important that, when the European Union implements development programmes with countries from which these immigrants are moving to a large extent, the European Union should link the spending of these billions of European taxpayers to conditioning. In English: these resources must be used in countries far from us in such a way that there will be changes that will prevent immigrants from moving towards Europe and within Hungary for political or economic reasons. And I respectfully inform you, Mr Group Leader, that it is very important that all Europe and, of course, the Hungarian people are aware of the fact that immigration pressure through the Balkan route is now greater than the immigration pressure on the Mediterranean route. And we think - and this debate will, of course, continue, but it is not tragic again, but the natural order of life - that we believe that a temporary technical barrier, building a fence, will help us to deal with this challenge. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-20	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, At the same time, MEP Rózsa Hoffmann, the KDNP Group, asked for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-29-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, So far, the atmosphere of this House and this room has been very serious. Mr Speaker, in his first speech, he spoke about the sent-out, which was a tragedy. After that, we heard a speech about the new migration of modern times in a number of approaches; we all know that at the beginning of the new era or at the beginning of the Middle Ages, the then population migration swept away the modern civilization of those times, which was also a tragedy, and also a tragedy, everything that is happening today. And speaking of tragedies, I suppose I could bring all the things in the weekend news that shocked us all - it was not mentioned here - the unexpected tragic deaths of dozens of people brought about by modern warfare in France, Tunisia or elsewhere. We could bow to their memory, too. What I want to tell you is a much more cheerful subject. You may not meet the threshold for many, but believe me, my fellow Members, life is about something other than these serious issues; it is about the important event in the lives of families and young people, in which they can prove that they have attained that knowledge by the age of 18, they have reached that level, they have been tested and found strong. The graduation test is the initiation test, which has been measuring young people in Hungarian educational history for about 160 years, and opens the way to further education and higher careers. Well, the news also told us this weekend - just a lot quieter - that on Friday, June 26th, graduation exams were completed in high schools, nearly 80,000 students, 79 thousand and a few completed graduation exams, not to mention tens of thousands of students who took different levels or other exams from one subject. These exams were successful and were a joyful event in the lives of young people, schools and their teachers. They say that today's youth motivation for learning is not as good as it was a lifetime ago. I don't share that opinion. I've been in correspondence or personal relationships with a lot of young people, and in the last two weeks, they've all been about how excited she is. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , how prepared is the graduation exam taking place, you could feel from their requests that it was a serious ordeal, a stake and indeed a test for them. It was the same for their parents who were happy to report when their son or daughter passed a successful exam. And I can also tell you that it is not true that these young people do not respect knowledge, learning, graduation, and the way to it. I did not meet with an entry on social networks where a newly graduated youth was not ashamed to thank his teachers and parents individually for helping him to achieve this success and move on with his life. Dear fellow Members, We are always talking about big, serious things here, and sometimes we tend to forget that human life takes place through such little pleasures, and that is what gives us hope that it is worth continuing to fight. That is why we are celebrating the students, this nearly 80 grand, who finished their successful graduation exam last week; we are celebrating and congratulating their teachers who helped them, their parents, who have led them this way for 18 or more years. And we can also remember the helpers, since the exam took place at 1,700 exam venues, who allowed these exams to take place without any problems, without any scandals, such as graduation presidents and other persons. Once again, we can say vivant professors! "Let students live, and we wish them and their teachers and their parents a very good rest, and that they should be prepared to continue their studies in higher education as of September, so that they can do this effectively and successfully, because the success of each student will build on the success of our country. Thank them. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member Lajos Kepli also applied for a speech before the agenda... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I beg your pardon, it seems that the president in charge of the meeting has speeded up the session. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-29-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In return, I will try to be short and to the point, because in the lives of many students, in each of our lives, a huge challenge, a huge task of graduation, everyone has been preparing for it for a very long time, and the whole family is in a high mood. And then, when it is such a test for someone, so much effort is made, then the task of the state, the system of public education, is to make the organization as smooth as possible, as well as the state apparatus, the machine that provides the conditions for graduation. We have to say that the reorganized Hungarian public administration is doing well in every sharp situation, whether it is the flood of the century or the annual graduation exams or multilevel graduation exams, because this graduation has also been completely smooth, there has been no news of any major problems, delays or anything else, and there is a lot of work to be done here in the formulation of the items, in the logistics system, for those working in the public education system, so I would also like to thank them - first - for the work they have done here. We remember earlier periods when certain subjects had to repeat their graduations, or different problems arose. This did not happen during this period, since the graduation period ended on Friday 26 June 2015, as the Member said. This year's graduation exam took place at a total of 1172 exam venues, involving 3327 examination committees. 79 thousand high school graduates started this competition and 36 300 students took at least one exam exam. It means that they are probably older than the current 18-year-olds, they have used their graduations before, but now they have taken an additional exam. [[13.50]] So, in total, if we look at the total number of 18-year-olds and olders, 115 300 graduates graduated during this graduation period. If we add up the number of exams, the exams were 425 700, so nearly half a million exams were passed, of which 42 400 were raised, and 383 300 were mid-level exams. As in previous years, the number of high-level graduation exams has increased, as in the previous two years, by 1,200 more students have applied for a high-level graduation. This means that there is a 3 percent increase in high-level graduation exams. Obviously, young people have chosen a higher level of graduation because of adapting to the expectations of universities. The number of high-level graduates shows well that all the opposition criticisms about how this government would discourage young people from further education, the numbers deny it, as more and more people have used the possibility of a higher-level graduation exam, and the university applications were similar to last year, which show a slight increase compared to the previous year. So the kind of need for young people to acquire high education, higher education and higher education is still there, only in some cases even with less public involvement. From 157 subjects it was possible to take a mid-level exam and from 77 subjects it was possible to take a high-level graduation exam. The written examination was held on 26 May, the orals were held until 11 June, the mid-level orals were held between 15-26 June, and the increased oral exams were held between 4-11 June. More detailed data will be found on the website of the Education Office in the next few days. A total of 21,900 students completed a preliminary exam, which is 5 percent of young people. This means that nearly 22 000 people, although not yet 18 years of age, are not there yet to graduate, have already graduated from one or another subject, language objects, or other objects, so that at 18 years of age there is less that falls on them as a task, duty and weight. There were 13,700 who took a repeat or supplemental graduation exam. It is also a matter of a previous graduate, and now one of his mid-level subjects has been replaced with an elevated subject, or raised that level to such a level for his further education. The number of these was 8,500, who took a level-up exam. So there have been a lot of different types of exams, but I would also like to congratulate everyone who has passed their exams successfully, that the 12 years of preparation before him has produced results and has successfully graduated - it is a very big weapon. I'm sure you'll have time to relax during summer break. [[It's constant noise.]] And I would also like to thank the employees of the metropolitan and county government offices, the employees of the district government offices, the employees of the KLIK, the teachers, for having managed this graduation exam together, working well, oiledly, and for opening up the possibility of further education for many young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-24	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. There is a lot of basic noise in the room, and you can hardly hear the speaker or the responder. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli from the Jobbik Group also spoke before the agenda. What will be the fate of the nuclear power plant, how long will the government punish the Paks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think we can agree that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is one of Hungary's most important installations today. However, the situation of the nuclear power plant has become rather uncertain in these months. The government itself is the cause of this uncertainty, and in particular Minister János Lázár. He was the one who threw it into the public's mind last December that they wanted to replace the current management with a Western leadership. The reasons then show that there is insufficient confidence in the current management and that the efficiency indicators are not high enough. On the other hand, the truth is that three of the five European nuclear power stations with the highest availability rates are operating in Paks. The fourth block was not included in the top five because of the malfunction in 2003. Does the Minister know what led to that malfunction? The irresponsible ownership attitude at the time, the purely economic approach, the backlog of security considerations, and not least the activities of a German company. Doesn't that look a little spooky to you today? The Prime Minister's Office also leaked rumors about the dismissal of 800 people. Let's call it that, since it's clear that each person is doing a necessary and useful job at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Such a mass layoff would have disastrous consequences for both social and power plant security. Meanwhile, the Hungarian Electricity Works suspended the payment of extra-wage allowances under the collective agreement to 2500 employees of the power plant. It was prohibited for the power plant to pay aid for education, sports or other purposes to the city of Paks. Thus, both the city's population and the power plant workers live their lives in an extremely precarious atmosphere. While you're playing with your livelihoods and your bread, they're gonna have to do the main repair of nuclear power stations with 100% attention. Contrary to your governance, this is a truly responsible task, where every mistake presents a security risk; where every day slippage causes the state a hundred million dollars in damage. In this extremely precise system, you have entered as an elephant in a porcelain shop, and for this, you are using the extremely silly, fickle reduction of the rent as a political club. Right now, worry about everyday bread is what professionals do, and you're the cause of this uncertainty. You couldn't digest the four fifths of your defeat at the autumn mayor's election in Paks, and you've been punishing the city ever since. It has become clear that János Süli, former CEO of the nuclear power plant, has unanimous support from both the employees of the power plant and the city's population, but to punish the Paks for his election as mayor, to say the least, is not fair behavior. What you're doing is endangering the safety of the nuclear power plant. They treat the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as a simple paying place. They don't care about risking the livelihoods of thousands of families and the safe operation of the power plant. What do you think, Minister Lazarus, if you take Paks I under the control of your own purse, if you put nearly a thousand people on the streets, if you let Brussels pressure put a foreign leader who does not know the power plant on top of the insecure workers, what will it accomplish? We're talking about people here, not just accounting items. For my part, I have the utmost confidence in Paks professionals, but such a dangerous plant can only be operated safely under a stable background. Does Minister Lazarus know what to do when he wants to find out firsthand about a matter? What I do myself is to go and make sure with my own eyes and ears, as I have done in the case of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in recent years - if necessary, several times a year. Because I'm not afraid of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and I'm not afraid of the Paks. On the contrary, what did Minister Lazarus do? For months, he talked about the power plant's affairs without asking anyone on the company's side, simply didn't care about their position, and finally came to the city for consultation last week, but he didn't set foot in the power plant. In one of the hotels in the city, he informed the management of the power plant and the head of the union. Why is the government afraid to enter the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? You have signed a contract for the construction of two new nuclear power stations, so that, at the moment, the exercise of the ownership rights of the power plant that is already in operation seems to be a problem for the government. It would be worth a special speech as to how unprepared Paks II is. to build it, but that is not the subject of this speech. Stop irresponsible politics and please respond to the following: are you willing to take effective steps to support your Paks promises last week? Will workers be paid for their dues? Will foreign management finally abandon its unprecedented insane idea of global management? Jobbik stands by the Paks, on the side of peaceful everyday life, peaceful, safe development. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We want politics to leave the nuclear power plant and give back this extremely responsible space. [[The president's ringing again.]] And a serious profession, because it's a good thing for everyone, but it's not gonna do us any good. I'm looking forward to your substantive response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, responds. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-29-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His question was what the fate of the nuclear power plant would be, how long the Paksians would be punished by the government. This was the content of your speech before the agenda, which you submitted to us. It should be noted that the fate of the nuclear power plant is clear and clear: Paks I.'s four blocks have been extended by the Authority, so it is clear that instead of closing the nuclear power plant by 2020 at the latest, it will operate for another 20 years. [[14.00]] The other part of the matter is how the Paksians will live, how they will live in their settlements when the current blocks are up and running. This was also decided by the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government on the basis of the submission of the Hungarian Parliament, the 2014 II. By adopting a law, we decided that Paks II. We extend the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with investment. In any case, these decisions ensure the Paksians that they will have a long-term job, that they can participate actively in Hungarian electricity production in the long term and that they have added value. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been operating for more than 30 years, it is present in the Paks-Kalocsa and Szekszárd regions, it has produced enormous social value, and has always given priority support to the surrounding settlements in its work. For decades, it has been engaging in an ever wider range of environmental support activities, including municipal, urban development, support for the work of various informal or multi-purpose municipal associations, civil society organisations, health, education, cultural, ecclesiastical and sporting support. In keeping the successful solutions of recent years, the power plant decided in 2011 to establish a new public benefit foundation, which aims to launch a more focused, even more transparent, manageable support system. The established Future Energy Area Development Foundation aims at regional development, improving quality of life and job creation in beneficiary areas. MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. By 2014 he made several billion HUF of funding available to the Foundation. The Paks Social Council was established on 16 June 2015 to provide information to the population of 41 municipalities around the new nuclear power plant and to support settlements. The social council is composed of the small area of Paks, Kalocsa and the mayors of settlements in the northern part of the Szekszárd region, including the mayor of Paks, together with the parliamentary representatives of the individual constituency and list. In addition to the 41 mayors, János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, took part in the inaugural meeting, who will be president of the board alongside János Süli, Mayor of Paks. The purpose of the social council is to monitor Paks II. the preparation and implementation of the investment, ensuring a direct link between the government and the municipalities in the area of Paks. Mayors representing the interests of the people in the region are united in supporting the construction of new blocks and thus the future of the region's economy. In order to implement the plans and proposals of the settlements, the government had allocated HUF 1 billion by 2015, and a decision was also made at the last government meeting to build a new Danube bridge in the area of Kalocsa, the preparation of which had begun. All these facts show that the future of Paks and the surrounding area is encouraging, that jobs in Paks are sustainable in the long term, that jobs in Paks ensure long-term livelihoods and a safe and predictable livelihood for citizens living there. This will be the future of Paks, this will be the promising future of Paks. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-28	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, also came forward before the agenda, with a title on the most important tasks ahead. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-29-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that both Hungary and the European Union, perhaps two of the most important challenges that have been reflected at the last European Union summit, one of which is the issue of illegal immigrants, economic immigrants, the migration towards Europe, and the other is the situation in Greece and the road to the situation in Greece, the solutions proposed so far by the European Union and its institutions or the IMF to address the situation in Greece. I think that here, following Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó's agenda, the diversity of positions on migration issues has become quite clear. I would like to continue to stress that, in contrast to the left, who would spend more on migration camps, we believe that both Europe and Hungary must close their borders before migration. This is also the position of the Fidesz parliamentary group, and I see that the more than 1 million people who have sent back a questionnaire on national consultation in written form or have done it on the Internet have the same position. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I think that we need to talk about the other issue here in this House, especially because there is one important agreement: if the Hungarian Government had been following the position that the left-wing opposition and the European Union have been saying since February, then, my fellow Members, we would still not be anywhere today. [[Why, where are we now?!]] We would still be arguing today about the size of the Hungarian quota, while tens of thousands of people are crossing our borders, whether we need to take back new immigrants from Europe. Well, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, Hungary has been on its own course here, and I think that we have also succeeded in doing so, and of course we must continue on this path. But let us face it in the same way, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no clear justification for the Hungarian position that has been followed in recent years in dealing with economic problems than the current situation in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, The various Greek governments that took over another country in a similar situation in 2010 as Hungary in 2010 [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't say such stupid things, you!]] Don't forget, in 2010 Hungary and Greece were mentioned together as, so to speak, two sick countries of the European Union. [[Zoltán Lukács: Who? You! Zoltán Grimlock: Lajos Kósa! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Among other things, Congressman Haughty, thanks to the government you support [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] because the Bajnai government and the Gyurcsány government put Hungary in this position. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes! Zoltán Lukács: Now let's talk about the Hutak and the Tutsi. Zoltán Grimlock: Really, the Hutus! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Compared to this, since 2010, Greek governments have adopted successive IMF and European Union guidelines, the crisis has become deeper, unemployment is increasing and the problem is growing. Ladies and gentlemen, From 2010 on, the Government of Hungary followed a different path, we did not follow the path of austerity, we did not accept the opinions of the European Union and the IMF. Hungary went its own way, and instead we taxed the banks. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] we have taxed multinational companies, personal income tax has been reduced, fellow Members (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right!) , and we introduced a family tax reduction, and thanks to this Hungary has managed to achieve serious economic results. And the reason we have to talk about this is because, as the various serious and responsible research institutions on the left have said for years, the opinion of the European Union - let us just recall what my fellow Member Márius Révész has already said here in Parliament - that these various research institutes on the left, which you have so much respect for, have said for many years, that there will be no growth here, that the budget deficit will be much greater, and that every time exactly the opposite has been confirmed - they have always said exactly what Brussels said. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There is no poverty data in KSH anymore! You've eliminated it!]] and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what this is all about. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] If we had taken that opinion seriously... [[Constant interruptions and noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] I would like to ask for more peace from my fellow left-wing Members. [[The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] If we had taken seriously, fellow Members, what the European Union is asking for, Hungary should have applied restrictions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Luckily, we didn't take it seriously, but we went our own way, we taxed banks instead, and in Hungary we reduced personal income tax, and we made a reduction in our rent. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to talk about this today because, in addition to the crisis in Greece, in the new EU country-specific report, the European Union would again be calling for restrictions on Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, There is only one thing I would like to ask of all Members here in this House: at least three times the left-wing institutions and the European Union have been fried with economic forecasts for Hungary in recent years, let us not believe them now, and I would also like to ask the government to do so, so that we are definitely on our own path and that we do not accept this opinion of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-30	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Szijjártó wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Minister. [[14.10]]
u2015-06-29-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Thursday and Friday, the European Council had on the agenda country-specific recommendations drawn up by the European Commission on the future orientations of the economic policies of the Member States. Perhaps it is worth spending time there for a few sentences as to what the current figures of the Hungarian economy actually show. I think that if we look at these numbers emotionally, fairly and calmly, objectively, then we can see that Hungary has returned to the forefront of the European Union, despite the fact that a few years ago we were quite powerful in the ranks. Last year, the Hungarian economy was able to show a 3.6 percent increase, which was the second highest growth rate among the EU Member States. Last year, Hungarian and international companies operating in Hungary spent 5216 billion forints on investment, i.e. 5216 billion forints, which was a 14 percent increase in one year, which has not been the case in Hungary since 17 years. In 17 years, the increase in investments has not been as high in one year as it was in 2014. Last year, our investment agency discussed 60 investment proposals and projects that led to 60 major investments in Hungary and 27 of them this year, which is a significant increase compared to last year, given that this is a May data. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we can say in Hungary for 16 months that more than 4 million people work and pay taxes in Hungary at the same time. Today there are almost 4.2 million workers and tax-paying people in our country. Of course, Mr Group Leader, ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough reason to please or sit back, the aim is to reach the state of the Czech economy, that is to say, to have 5 million people working in Hungary as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, The Hungarian economy is an open economy, and therefore the performance of the foreign economy has a major influence on the performance of the national economy. In this respect, it is good news that, despite the difficulties, the war in Ukraine, the EU's restrictive measures against Russia and countermeasures, Hungarian exports were able to increase by 8 percent in the first four months, and our unemployment, which is now 7.1 percent, has fallen at the fastest rate in the European Union. Dear Chief of Staff, You drew attention to the fact that the European Commission makes recommendations year after year on the Hungarian economy and on the Hungarian economic policy. However, if we look at the past few years, we see that these recommendations have been drawn up on the basis of incorrect forecasts. For example, much slower growth has been projected for Hungary than it has become, a much lower growth rate has been predicted for us. Compared to this, the Hungarian economy is growing much faster, investment is increasing much faster and unemployment is also falling much faster. The question, Mr Group Leader, is that I think it is right to ask what would have been the case if Hungary, the Government of Hungary had taken its economic policy measures in recent years on the basis of these misplaced forecasts. We can be quite sure that economic policy decisions made on the basis of incorrect forecasts could have been only wrong decisions, and certainly not have brought Hungary to the forefront of the European Union. Dear Chief of Staff, The European Council only adopted the country-specific recommendations in general, therefore not in detail, and the Government of Hungary will certainly not adopt two country-specific recommendations. We will not accept that we are giving aid instead of community service, we believe that the community work programme is right and that it is much better for a family if parents are given work instead of aid. On the other hand, we will not accept those parts of the country-specific recommendations which want to impose new restrictions on Hungary. The government of Hungary does not believe in austerity in the last few years, it became clear before 2010 that austerity only leads to a dead end, and we do not want to go into these dead ends again. Thank you very much for bringing this up. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-32	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-06-29-33	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; István Tukacs, MSZP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Gábor Vona, Jobbik; István Jakab, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Bernadett Szél, LMP; Előd Novak, Jobbik.
u2015-06-29-34	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that József Tóbias and 39 other Members have initiated a special meeting of the Parliament on 29 June at T/5324. and T/5325. For the purpose of the discussion of these proposals. The extraordinary meeting shall take place after the next meeting of the House Committee. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our third extraordinary meeting, starting today, is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I declare that the Government is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting in order to discuss 30 proposals. The Fidesz fraction proposed to negotiate two further proposals by adding the necessary signatures. You can find these submissions on the website. Dear Parliament, Before the meeting today, the House Committee held a meeting. Accordingly, we decide to negotiate two proposals with a derogation from house rules, we decide on an exceptional procedure for a bill, a proposal is not presented by the President in the absence of the necessary support. The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to act as a member of the XXXIII Parliament. Olympic Games and the XVII. H/5422 on support for the intention to tender paralympic games in 2024 in Budapest. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, it should depart from the house rules in such a way that the consolidated debate can take place tomorrow and the decisions taken on 6 July. A proposal for a derogation from the house rules can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the Rules, the four-fifths of the Members present must have a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the derogation from the rule of law by 155 votes in favour, 3 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that H/5422. The joint debate on the number 1 proposal will take place tomorrow, following the decisions, as the first item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Speaker of the National Assembly initiates the Parliament's XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities necessary for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Műlúk and Open Water Championships in Budapest. T/5419. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, it should depart from the house rules in such a way that the consolidated debate can take place tomorrow and the decisions taken on 6 July. A proposal for a derogation from the house rules can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 153 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/5419: The joint debate on the number 1 proposal will take place tomorrow as the second item on the agenda following the decisions. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, T/5416. The President of Parliament has not tabled a proposal to negotiate a derogation from the bill. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Act T/5404 on the amendment of certain other laws Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision following the exceptional procedure. The joint debate will take place tomorrow, the decision on the draft amending proposal and the final vote on 6 July. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/5404 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings 115 yes, 47 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our agreed decision, the amendment proposals can be submitted today at 5:22 p.m.; the consolidated debate on the bill will take place tomorrow, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on 6 July. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 85. § (1) allows the Parliament to invite the committees negotiating the report to take a decision. In the absence of a committee consensus, this shall be presented by the President. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Committee for Sustainable Development to consult XCIII of 1995 on the restoration of the level of protection of protected natural areas. B/5328. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision 112 yes, 42 votes against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, The decision on a personal proposal will not take place at our meeting today. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:24 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. By exercising its powers extended by paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Treaty, he rejected the following questions, as they do not fall within the remit of the addressees: Zoltán Magyar, representative of the Jobbik Group K/5173. No K/5174 of the Minister for Agriculture and K/5174. Mr Bertalan Tóth, Member of the MSZP Group K/5163. K/5164. Mr Sándor Burány, Member of the MSZP Group K/5275. on the oral question addressed to the Minister of National Economy. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with interpellations. Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - Why is the new pavilion of St. Borbála Hospital in Tatabánya empty for months? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Lukács has the floor.
u2015-06-29-35	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In spring 2010, the Socialist Government decided to build a new medical block in Tatabánya in the area of St. Borbála Hospital. Then, after the change of government, all they could accomplish for a long time was to put a new pavilion on the side of the buses. This was not a great promise, because there was a government decision about it, and a foundation stone was laid when a lot of champagne was consumed by your fidesz potentas, and patients could listen to the wind band in the hospital courtyard for an hour and a half. After that, nothing happened for a long time. After that, he finally recovered from the hospital pavilion in many years. The technical transfer of this hospital pavilion took place eight months ago. For eight months, this new hospital pavilion has been ready, and since then there has been no healing work in it, no healers can move in, no patients can move in, standing empty in the hospital pavilion. It can also be heard that there is an empty hospital pavilion because they have been unable to carry out the public procurement or public procurement necessary for this hospital pavilion to include instruments and equipment. Then, on the basis of the new information, it is that they were not able to carry out public procurement, but that there was a public procurement, but then they shot it all back, because it was supposed that public procurement would not have been able to win the money and the investments of those who were very dear to the heart of Fidesz. So now we're talking about the fact that the Fidesz potentates, the hyenas close to Fidesz, want to make money again at the expense of the sick, and for eight months there's been a built-up hospital pavilion in Tatabánya in St. Barbara's Hospital, and there's no cure in it. Mr. Secretary, the thing about Tatabánya is that there's a truck trailer parked in the backyard of the hospital, it's got the CT system in it, and they're pulling patients into the truck, they're doing the CT scans there. Old, damaged people are pulled up on iron stairs, carried into the back of the truck, carried out CT scans there, and then carried back somehow, just because the ladies and gentlemen of Fidesz are unable to conduct public procurement in a newly built hospital pavilion with equipment, instruments and healing. I'm asking you if you're okay with this, I'm asking you if you already have those responsible, who made a mistake here, that in a newly recovered hospital, there's been no healing work going on for almost a year now. I'm asking you, when will there be a cure in the new pavilion of St. Barbara's Hospital? Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation.
u2015-06-29-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are now talking about improvements in Parliament. This has not always been the case in the field of health, but it is probably because they can never again present a 4-5 year cycle, a period in which there would be a HUF 500 billion improvement in health care. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who decided that?]] Some of this is obviously about new building wings, which the Member has just said, and we could talk about renovations and new instruments in the case of this or other hospitals. [[14.30]] But if I only touch on the purchase of machinery and instruments - which you also mentioned in your speech, in your interpellation - this alone is HUF 100 billion in the large project package of hospital construction, renovation and equipment for 500 billion. In addition to the fact that the government has provided HUF 500 billion primarily from EU funds for the development of hospitals, let us not forget that the only reason why we can't talk about hospitals that are on the verge of bankruptcy is because out of HUF 60 billion, the government has just redeemed the outstanding debts of all hospitals, which have been rolled in front of them for years. Obviously, this type of support, this kind of responsibilities being taken off their shoulders, will help either the renovations or the smoother conduct of operations in hospitals, within health institutions. As far as St. Borbála Hospital in Tatabánya is concerned, you are well aware that this is the largest hospital in Komárom-Esztergom County, with nearly a thousand, 928 beds, 158 doctors and 814 health professionals performing healing activities. This is a huge facility, obviously using advanced diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in Tatabányány with adequate instrumental supply. In the framework of project TIOP 2.2.4., this hospital received a total of HUF 4 billion and HUF 730 million initially to develop here. The contract was concluded here on 13 May 2011. It was a 90 per cent EU resource, a 10 per cent share, which covered this development, and that's how the work started. I'd like you to know what happened in Tatabánya year after year. In 2011, works and procurement were carried out to facilitate the implementation of the project, where the previous existing licensed design documentation had to be modified, and this year the design design documentation had to be prepared and the public procurement of services was carried out in 2011. In the first half of 2012, preparatory work was carried out on public works necessary for the construction of works, as well as similar procurement required for the procurement of instruments. By June 2012, the first round of contract contracts was unsuccessful, since the winner could not have concluded such a contract, and he withdrew from it, and the second procurement procedure, which slowed down the project, started; it would have been good if the first contract had been successful already in June 2012. Finally, this took place only on 17 May 2013. This was the way in July 2013 the keystone was set up, to which the Member also referred. During the implementation of the project, works were made that had not been included in the documentation before the tender was prepared, and unfortunately, additional procurement procedures had to be carried out, which also increased the resources, thus the project budget increased to HUF 5.23 billion, i.e. HUF 5 billion to HUF 230 million. On 26 November 2014, the procurement of additional works was carried out by the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] By decision of 17 April 2015, it terminated. Finally, the construction works started on 1 June 2015 and the complete investment is expected to be completed by 31 August and the start of the healing activity by 30 September with a permit for use. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-38	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-39	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for telling me the history of St. Barbara's Hospital for a long time, he also said that the hospital received 4 billion; we know because we gave him 4 billion in our time of government. [[Interjection in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I asked you why the hospital has been empty for eight months; you have not answered that. I also asked you who was responsible; you didn't answer. I also asked if it was okay for you to drag patients into the back of a truck for a CT scan in the hospital garden; you didn't answer that either. He didn't even answer whether they'd put an end to the fact that there's no cure at St. Barbara's Hospital, because public procurement has to be managed in such a way that fidesz buddies can benefit from it. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is that you have not responded to anything like this. You told me how many doctors work at the hospital and how many nurses work at the hospital - you didn't tell me that about a third more people should work there to make it work normally - so Mr. Secretary of State said it's okay. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's okay if the hospital's empty, it's okay to check the patients in a truck...
u2015-06-29-40	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer...
u2015-06-29-41	...so I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr.Előd Novak, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister: "Do you agree that a basic Internet service is free of charge for all Hungarian citizens? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2015-06-29-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hundreds of thousands of people in Jobbik's Street and Internet signature collection have already stood up to making basic Internet access free, but so far the government has not supported it to our repeated initiatives, and my colleague Gergely Farkas and I have tried to convince you a few times. CHAPTER XXI As a 100th century movement, we do not quite understand XX. Party of the century, but we don't give up. We also learned from Gábor Kubatov's famous, leaked recording that, I quote him, Viktor Orbán is not very good at computing; we have now made a lot of progress, because for example, he can receive and send text messages, and he knows the difference between fax and e-mail. However, it seems that no progress has been made since then, so it is no wonder that you do not understand the world of the Internet. Does Viktor Orbán even have a smartphone? Do you know how to use the Internet? I asked this once from Zsolt Semjén, who replied, and I quote him: "The fact that a Prime Minister via a text message or not by text can still trigger a special tax on the given area. Well, it seems from this answer that the blind drives a blind man in the government, they're at war with the Internet. However, Zsolt Nyitrai, the expert politician of Fidesz, who is considering Internet taxation on the government, said, in 2008 in opposition, but he said very rightly then - so let us quote him - "The Internet is a genre of freedom, not of these prevailing trends in the world to tax the Internet, but rather of making it more free, much more accessible to all our countrymen. Let me answer that, Mr. Secretary of State. The free internet would boost telework, remote control, electronic administration, thus reducing both car traffic and unnecessary queues. The third lowest share of regular broadband mobile users in the European Union is the third. The government announcement is misleading that by 2018 or more, it is only said that by 2020 there will be broadband internet everywhere - of course, who knows what the deadline will be, when we actually get there - but it should be added now that it will only be where it can pay outstandingly high charges in international comparison. Compared to gross average earnings, domestic mobile internet charges are more than three times higher than Slovenia and the Czech Republic, and the prices here are 23 times higher than Denmark, i.e. 2,200 percent. In addition, the Secretary of State, L. Simon László, has admitted to better criticism - but unfortunately, he still has a sharp response at the level of words - that the Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the Internet cheaper than we do here. This is where Hungary keeps us and predicted, Mr Secretary of State, that it will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change in this area. That's what he said, but they don't change. It's been a year since then, and they haven't changed anything. However, we again ask that the introduction of the free basic internet be considered, in this connection I look forward to Mr State Secretary's substantive reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Ákos Kara responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-29-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the most important thing is that there will be no Internet tax and there will be no Internet tax. On the other hand, a national consultation on Internet-related issues was launched, and the programme for broadband coverage of all households in the country was launched, which will make available until 2018, at the latest by 2020 the ordering of a package with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabit/seconds for any Hungarian claimant, i.e. super-fast internet. Schools, such as public education, can enjoy broadband from the end of 2016. This month, the government approved the necessary resources. In addition to EU and domestic budget support, we have introduced a five-year public utility tax exemption for network developments that will create a completely new network phase and for existing networks to be able to provide the necessary bandwidth. [[14.40]] Honourable Congressman, Not only in some right-wing settlements, but also in many settlements, whether public spaces or public institutions, two thirds of the e-Hungary points have free WiFi connections. Honourable Congressman, The government will not simplify access to the Internet, from 2016 onwards we will provide training for 100,000 Hungarians and from 2018 onwards we will be able to use digital tools better, even for job search. In partnership with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we include at first pace 3 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises and then 2 thousand other small and medium-sized enterprises in the digital economy, and I remind him that we handed him over in June, so a few days ago we handed over one of the world's most powerful supercomputers to researchers and students in Debrecen. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has, among other things, created the conditions for the electronic administration of key public affairs. In view of all this, in the light of the introduction, allow me to answer some of your questions in detail. Jobbikós MEPs like to say that advertising tax revenues could provide free internet in Hungary. On the other hand, the fact is that the revenue from the advertising tax would far from cover the costs of the free internet, and Jobbik therefore misinformed voters with this claim. The question to be clarified is whether Jobbik's objective in this way is not either a new tax or an Internet tax or a new tax or a tax increase for Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike Jobbik, the government not only talks about making Internet use available on the subject, but also acts to achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen, We expect results from the national consultation, more than ten thousand people have already participated in the national consultation, and by the end of July there is an opportunity for everyone, and I would encourage everyone to participate in the Internet consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, the right to access the Internet has been implemented through complex developments in Hungary, as as long as there is no broadband infrastructure covering the whole country, Internet access cannot be provided to anyone in the country. In connection with Jobbik's proposal, it is therefore worth considering whether the proposal that would bring free internet for everyone, i.e. the richest, has been considered and, on the other hand, it is unclear what Jobbik thinks when he talks about basic access. Jobbik is talking about some slow, cumbersome service, which, in his use of the word, is XX. The 21st century would be delivered by the 21st century. It's a century. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-46	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-47	Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer, because although it was brilliant in its ability to link Jobbik with the Internet tax that you have initiated - the whole country knows very well - but Jobbik does not want an Internet tax or even a reduction in Internet charges, on which you have said nothing in your speech. I also brought international examples of how far behind we are. We do want to make access to the basic internet a fundamental right. The basic internet does not mean that it is some kind of XX. It would mean access to the Internet in the first century, but that it would not be unlimited in terms of, for example, the possibility of downloading films. That's not what I was talking about. I was talking about how we could boost telework, remote control. In this respect, I am very pleased that the movement of Internet-friendly settlements, which Jobbik has launched, but it is true that it is already happening in several settlements, will be embraced by you, I hope, and I am pleased that 100,000 people are now provided with training on the Internet. I trust that, among these hundred thousand, Viktor Orbán will have the opportunity to become friendly with the Internet, as you have said, even to find a job. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 37 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title of the hungry oligarcha vb and Olympics. On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is responsible for the interpellation on behalf of Prime Minister... [[The ministerial velvet chair is empty. A moment's pause.]] Secretary Kara Ákos... excuse me. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary State Secretary János Fónagy will respond. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, and I also ask for your understanding patience. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start by saying that the May Other Politics agrees with the objective that Budapest should organise the 2017 World Championships of Swimming, Waterball, Műjump, Műlúk and Open Water, only that the rapid amendments to the law enabling the investment were submitted and accepted without any feasibility studies. The changes also ignore the nature conservation, landscape protection and monument protection aspects and even flood protection aspects. It doesn't matter about nature conservation, because they can destroy any kind of green surface. It doesn't matter about landscape protection, they avoid building regulations, they can pull up any complex. It doesn't matter about the protection of monuments, they're free to destroy the historic high tide bath, which, by the way, has just been taken into state property from the capital. And it doesn't matter the flood protection aspects either, as they can also tear down the flood protection structures. But what is also very bad is that the laws that allow the event to take place are also embedded in corruption. The system of rules of the investment, which is full of exceptions, gives rise to a serious gap in public funds. The water world is trapped in corruption risks. It seems that there are already the impatient oligarchs of the post-Simicska era gathering around the investment. They are so impatient that the investment contract has long been concluded and the foundation stone of the complex has been laid, to which the government decision to conclude the contract has been published. And what a coincidence, the big investment point of Market Zrt. He won it, which belongs to the Prime Minister's rope friend's empire. István Garancsi described his relationship with the Prime Minister as such. It seems to be a very profitable friendship, which is a great treasure in today's world, because we can see how difficult it is for the oligarchs who lose the Prime Minister's friendship. In the rush, the cost of the investment doubled. In the beginning, it was only HUF 25 billion, but the contract with a rope friend is already HUF 49 billion. But there are other oligarchs lined up at the state money taps. Due to their corporate involvement, the sports complex is surrounded by department heads and various people of trust. We also know that the other good friend of the Prime Minister, Lőrinc Mészáros, mayor of Felcsút, is not missing out on this party, because there is plenty of work to be done for businesses in his empire. Dear Secretary of State, Will you support the Prime Minister's entire circle of friends with the investment? Are you dreaming of hungry oligarch sports investment? And it's only a $50 billion water vb. How about we throw a thousand-billion-dollar Olympics? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-06-29-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-29-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, [[A statement from the Fidesz: Where is the Sallai? Dr. András Schiffer pointed to the expert box: There he is! Where's the Tiffa? The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for your words of good intentions and trust. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The 2017 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championship is an unexpected opportunity for our country. Due to the extraordinary shortness of time, however, it requires a very disciplined work, so it is natural that the rules of the investment are laid down in a special law by the Parliament. The planning and implementation are carried out on the basis of the Tide Act, adopted by a parliamentary majority of approximately 97%, and the relevant government and ministerial regulations. During the implementation of the investment, we do not demolish a historic building or building, only Budapest Gyógyfürdői és Hévizei Zrt. Its office building and two pools need to be broken down, which are not under historic protection. [[14.50]] Special emphasis is placed on flood protection. So far, the tide has been defenseless, as the flood line was reported by Népfürdő utca. From now on, however, outside the area of the spa and swimming arena, we create a modern, aesthetic line of protection, cycling paths and promenades, so the Dagály bath is no longer protected by sandbags after 2017. The contract process was legal and legal. The government decision adopted in March fixed the government's approval and that the investment had to be carried out by 31 March 2017. The contractor was selected in accordance with the provisions of the law. The contracting authority was obliged to invite at least three tenderers complying with a very strict requirement to tender. Only the lowest remuneration could be used to assess the tenders. The contract signed with the main contractor selected under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act on 12 May 2015 contained specific rules on entry into force, and accordingly, the main contractor contract could only enter into force until the available budget appropriations, i.e. those provided for in the 2015 Finance Act, and the 2014 budget balance. You mentioned the costs. The floating arena costs less than 25 billion, with no increase in costs compared to the data reported at first moments. The 49 billion, published in the Hungarian Gazette, includes the net cost of the floating arena of HUF 21.4 billion, excluding VAT, other planning and urban development expenses and VAT on everything. VAT is immediate budget revenue, to be exact, HUF 10.3 billion. The combined net design costs of all buildings, professional work, works of art, road, transport development, flood protection charging and utilities are HUF 1.5 billion. The temporary bleachers, the nearly 1 kilometer flood protection charge, the cost of sewer protection, and the cost of reconstructing and dismantling the building is HUF 14 billion net, the reserve is 1.8. That's 49 billion forints total. More than a fifth of this is not an issue. Accordingly, we keep the original amounts, and each penny has its exact location. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-52	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-29-53	As soon as Mr. Secretary's finished, I'd like to start. Every penny has its place. That is exactly what we were worried about, which is precisely why we voted 'no' when this law came before us and the concerns worked. I didn't get an answer to one question. What made this treaty possible to be signed was quite specific. [[Dr. János Fónagy: The Law.]] because the contract was concluded two weeks before the government decision was reached. On 11 March, a government decision was taken to allow public procurement. The contract was concluded at the beginning of May, and a government decision was reached only on 26 May, which allows this to happen, but at the same time the foundation stone was laid down. How is that possible, Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. János Fónagy: What you say is not true.]] I didn't get an answer to that. We are very concerned about this investment. Finally, he said that the cost had not increased. Of course, from 25 billion to 49 billion, to double, it's completely absurd. If it grows from 25 billion to 49 billion, it's nearly double. Of course it's grown! I don't accept the answer.
u2015-06-29-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 21 against and 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: Hungary has always been fair to political refugees, but it is not in a position to welcome economic immigrants. [[Move.]] Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. And before the Member begins, I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber quietly if they wish to leave. Thank you for your understanding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think immigration can be talked about enough. The number of illegal border crossings has increased to such an extent that it is no longer immigration, but, ladies and gentlemen, this can unfortunately be seen as a migration. The number of illegally crossing the Hungarian border exceeded 60 thousand, and 99 percent reached Hungary at the Serbian-Hungarian border. By the end of the year, the number of people who wish to cross the Hungarian border illegally could increase to 120,000. Unfortunately, this is the same trend in Europe, and I think that such a degree of migration cannot be managed by traditional means, and Europe must find a new recipe. If there is no common solution, then there is no other choice than that each country must act independently. Our most important obligation, which we have also undertaken at the time of EU and Schengen accession, is to protect the borders of Hungary and Europe for its citizens. Therefore, what the government has made is the right decision to establish a border barrier on the Hungarian-Serbian border, because we are trying not only to protect Hungary, the Hungarian citizens, but also to protect Europe as a whole, the citizens of Europe. We also have to face the fact that Germany and Austria are planning to send more than 15,000 immigrants back to Hungary, which will also not be a small task for us. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that admitting that we are not in a position to accept economic immigrants does not mean that we are xenophobics. Our political family has always rejected any form of racism and xenophobia. However, we must not confuse xenophobia and the representation of Hungarian interests. Liberals and left-wings who try to confuse these two things by misinterpretation of humanism or political profit are particularly harmful to Hungary, are particularly harmful to Hungarian citizens. It is also important to note that Hungary has always adopted political refugees, and has always given them shelter. When the war took place in the Western Balkans between 1991 and 1997, we set an example for Europe. As Mohácsi myself, I am proud that a small town of 20,000 has adopted 6,000 refugees from the South by volunteering and helping everyone, each citizen, to solve the problem, for which the Council of Europe has also received a prize. However, economic immigrants fall into a different category. In this case, the solution that Hungary has long advocated is to tackle and solve this problem outside Europe. That is why I think it is very important that we speak frankly about this problem. Dear Minister, I am aware that the Ministry intends to organise a conference in order to speak frankly and openly about this serious problem. I therefore ask the honourable Minister whether he considers this solution sufficient and whether Hungary is in a position to accept immigrants in the present situation. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-29-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for giving us once again the opportunity to speak again in Parliament on this undoubtedly important issue, which is one of the most important challenges facing the European Union. I would like to tell you that the situation is indeed extremely serious, since 66 474 illegal immigrants arrived in Hungary this year from 1 January yesterday, of which 65 934 from the direction of Serbia. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to underline the word 'egitimately', given that these people are violating legislation when entering Hungary, given that these people are not crossing Hungary's border at the designated border crossing points, but at the green border, in violation of Hungary's border. The situation is also exacerbated by the fact that Austria and ten other EU Member States have indicated last week that they want to send some 15,000 illegal immigrants back to Hungary. The Hungarian Government disputes this intention, given that, on the basis of Dublin obligations, illegal immigrants must be returned to the European Union country where they first entered the territory of the European Union. The people who come through the Balkans had to cross the territory of at least one EU Member State before coming to Hungary, either Greece or Bulgaria, on the grounds of exclusion. [[15.00]] There is no doubt that these people must be sent back to Greece or Bulgaria, not to us. At the last European Council, critical decisions were taken. Firstly, the importance of the distinction between political refugees and economic immigrants has been clearly stated, as the Member was kind to point out. Here we have to take into account the fact that out of every hundred people who apply for asylum or apply for refugee status, it turns out that about 8-9 of them had the right to asylum. On the other hand, it is also important that the distinction should be implemented outside the territory of the European Union, but the so-called hotspots should be established in Italy and Greece at the latest, where the decision can be made whether the person is an economic immigrant or indeed a political refugee. So our position that the solution is outside the territory of the European Union is reflected in these decisions. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also very important that the European Union should finally be geographically balanced with this issue, because at least as many people in the Balkans are now coming to the region, to the European Union as through the Mediterranean, which is why we have raised, honourable Member, that, like the Valletta conference, a Budapest conference should be held, where the leaders of not the European Union and African Union leaders, but the European Union, the Balkan countries, the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean and the countries of the Middle East, would discuss immigration, especially with regard to the fact that the European Union is spending millions of euros and billions of European taxpayers' money to develop these countries. And it is very important that the conditioning that these countries should use these European funds in such a way that it is seen in the country's economic quality and prevented and eliminated the reasons why people today have to leave these countries for economic reasons. Thank you again, Mr President, for being kind to raise this issue here at the plenary session of Parliament. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-58	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the data that confirmed the assumption that more than 90% of the data drawn up by the Minister in most of the cases do not justify the request for refugee status on behalf of immigrants, and I also consider it important what I said in the introduction that we are looking for a solution that can still address this issue outside the EU. Let us not try to treat it when they have already entered the territory of the Union as an illegal border crossing and, unfortunately, Hungary in the first place. I consider the Budapest conference to be a very good idea, where we could discuss this important issue together with all stakeholders, and obviously we look forward to the support and help of the European Union to address this issue, and indeed those illegal - I stress, illegal - immigrants who enter the territory of Hungary and the Union through the green border, by committing all kinds of violations of laws, can we stop them. So we have high hopes for the success of the conference. I wish you good luck, Minister, personally. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Do they at least have remorse for the ruined lives of valuable breeding animals sent to the slaughterhouse? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-06-29-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2011, in Nagyesztergár, NFA applied for all expired land. The former tenant, a small livestock company, had reason to believe that he could continue the work, as he wanted to cultivate 350 hectares out of the 500 hectares previously used, even though he had 430 hectares of animals to rent at the time of the application. At that time, however, this company had 16 permanent employees, of which 10 were specifically KFTs. owned by the majority of whom had 40 years of work. In their application, they promised to add 4 additional members. Unfortunately, they were wrong, the local big man and the ministry protégé won all the land from them, and they stayed there without pasture and feeding land. At that time, I had repeatedly indicated that this would mean the end of decades of excellent genetic material. The answer to that was always to see horrors. Unfortunately, I was right, since then, a large proportion of the workers have retired, and today there are 50 cows, 20, beautiful heifers and 25 calves waiting to be slaughtered. On the pasture worth a better fate, where I was looking for the winner's three sheep, there's a meter of weeds and thorns. Based on the court decision, the small company requested the criticism material of the applications, we reviewed them together, and found that, similarly to other cases, the previous livestock management plan with a real stock was scored on every lost plot of land, but let's see a miracle, in the three smaller areas that were later won, the management plan, which was literally the same as the others, received almost maximum points. The winners, the family of a Magosian leader, and the young farmer with a good relationship received maximum points. They have also committed hundreds of animals, organic farming, food processors, recruitment of workers. Of course, it didn't turn out to be anything, but thanks to their good fidesz connections, they've been enjoying subsidies for years, and even now they've cut down the forest lanes bordering the land, according to the locals, with the approval of the authorities, bringing in ten million in revenue. Fraud and lies: this is the characteristic of the use of state land everywhere in the country, from Bakony to Hortobágy. They've ruined existentials, chased old farmers to their death, they don't look at God, they don't look at man, they just look at a million bucks, and you should know there's no trailer for the coffin. The above shows that there are many questions. Answer some of them, Mr. Secretary. Did the county NFA leaders commit this obvious fraud on their own at the time of criticism or at the direction of higher authority? When are they gonna take back the land awarded by cheating? Do they at least feel remorse for the ruined lives of valuable breeding animals sent to the slaughterhouse? The known forest strip around Zirc has been cut off with a permit? And how much of this money did the state make as owner? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-29-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Márton Bitay, Ministry of Agriculture.
u2015-06-29-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I'd like to ask you to put it this way, please, exactly when you say there's been some kind of fraud. 'Cause I didn't see any court decisions, but I didn't see any proceedings involving fraud in these areas or anywhere else. I would like to ask you to take the necessary steps if you are aware of this in these areas. However, I would like to discuss some of the thoughts and things that you have said. On the one hand, it's a big deal earlier. used this area: it is indeed true, before a large kft. He used this area, now, if I count correctly, there are ten winners in this area. And what you have mentioned, that you have a young farmer winner in this area, can indeed be the simple explanation that a young farmer is an extra point, the fact that someone is applying as a young farmer represents ten additional points for the applicant. I would like to stress that nearly 40,000 hectares of land have been won by young farmers in the programme for farmers, so I do not want to argue with this statement. I think it speaks for itself to be a kft. ten of them use the land, including young farmers. He says that whoever neglected the land, or that there were various forestry works in this area, and it's very interesting, as he puts it, that the forest lanes bordering the land were cut down, according to the locals, with the approval of the authorities. Indeed, the news is true, the locals know that the authorities have given us permission to do so. And they gave him permission because he was a farmer of the original tillage, a meadow or pasture, but this is the drawback of uncared state wealth. Before 2010, there wasn't enough energy for this, so a part of it was forested, which was actually restored in accordance with the original cultivation line. They asked for permission and restored the original cultivation. I understand, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was only here that there was an application for land for which neither this Kft. nor anyone else had applied. We're gonna have to put out a new application. So there would have been an opportunity if this was the kft. she wanted to, or she thought she wanted to win, so she could have done that, and of course she had a good chance of running. [[15.10]] In relation to what you requested in your interpellation to have an out-of-the-box inspection of the case, we have, of course, ordered once again to investigate who and how you are doing this area, whether it complies with the terms of your contract or the invitation to tender, and, as in other cases, here, if you do not comply, there will be obvious consequences. By the way, I would like to remind you of the remorse of the case, or of the land in general, for the farmers, before 2010, when 600 people used all the state land. I'm asking you, too, if you feel any remorse about the fact that at the time 600 farmers were at the benefit of the lease on state land, and now over 7500 people have won. [[Zoltán Pride: No.]] What would you say to farmers who obviously wanted public land leases before 2010? Only they couldn't, because they didn't have an invitation to tender or they were not preferred by the invitation to tender, but preferred large plants. The number of people using more than 500 hectares was also so low, and now more than 1,500 farmers in these areas alone won the land for farmers. So, Congressman, the remorse, I think you don't have to bother the government, you've declared the land for the farmers programme to support the family farms. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] family farmers win, young farmers win on this programme. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-65	Mr. Secretary. He could be head of department at the university of explanation, but answer me this: those ten winners are three families, and they destroyed sixteen of them, because there was no animal farming in this colony. If you didn't understand, there are 50 cows waiting to be slaughtered, 25 very serious heifers, which also goes to a slaughterhouse, and 25 calves, and 16 families have lost their livelihood [[András Tállai: 16 families will not survive!]] In the village and the neighborhood, the $100-forints of cheap milk is gone because you gave it to your friends; it's actually ten, but that's three families. The other is that I do not understand, Mr Secretary of State: ten million state trees have been stolen from that area. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: They didn't steal!]] It was not part of the tender that the protection zones where the animal is driven to be found - Mr Secretary of State, if you don't know, it is a tradition that animals should rest under the trees at noon. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: In Szántárföld?]] No, I'm talking pasture. I'm sorry. Get over there once, go over there, and see what you're doing. What you've done is terrible, and there will be serious consequences. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Of course, we will press charges, but we will do so when there are other chief prosecutors in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-29-66	Your answer, please. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not tell me, but I sensed from his reply that he had not accepted the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote. Zoltán Grumpy is talking to Dr. Márton Bitay Örs. András Tállai: Calm down! Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: Watch out! He's got a gun! Zoltán Grimlock: Two! Noise.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade [[It's ringing.]] : å Worse prospects than ever before in Hungary's supply of energy. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Before I give the floor to the Member, I would like to ask my fellow Members to give them the opportunity to express their interpellation. You have the floor. I'll reset the clock. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, You stated at last Monday's Luxembourg meeting of EU Foreign Ministers that the prospects for energy security in Central Europe are worse than ever. He said that Hungary is currently unable to import gas from the south, because neither Romania nor Croatia are in compliance with its obligations in the EU and did not implement the investments that would allow Hungary to import gas from there. In your opinion, the situation can easily arise from 2019 that Hungary will not be able to import gas from the East, given the Russian declarations that the transport of gas through Ukraine will be terminated. We can fully agree with these statements. The situation is particularly worrying about the agreement signed by representatives of Gazprom, Shell, E.ON and OMV a week and a half ago on the occasion of the Economic Forum in St. Petersburg. This declaration includes the intention to strengthen and further expand the northern transport route. On the occasion of the agreement, the President of the OMV said that this could make the gas distribution centre in Baumgartten near the Austrian-Hungarian border a regional centre. This raises a number of questions at Hungarian reading, bearing in mind the security of our country's gas supply. Double the capacity of the northern transport route and stop the transit in Ukraine in the near future means that Hungary will be able to obtain Russian gas only from the West through the European Union in the future. What double standards does the European Union apply? While deciding on anti-Russia sanctions, in words it talks about independence from Russian gas, it actually creates an unprecedented dependence. We ask the question: if we take it from Germany, is there no problem with Russian gas? Why has Brussels, for many years, prevented any gas pipeline plan that would supply gas to Central and South-East Europe from the south? Are you trying to replace the region's eastern energy dependency with the western one behind the energy union's cover? Obviously, this would be a big step on the part of Germany both in business and in politics. Is there any reality of our connection to the Turkish Current gas pipeline, or is this a mere deception to deceive us? Is that why it is not important for the European Union to bi-directionalise the interconnectors of our southern and eastern neighbours? If the new northern gas pipeline is implemented, the European Union will be explicitly counter-interested in the implementation of the southern route. Maroš Šefčovič, Commissioner for Energy Union, was unable to answer these questions at his parliamentary hearing two weeks ago, which only confirmed that Hungary's energy independence is not an objective of the Union, and I would like to change the direction of addiction, and we do not ask for it. Mr. Secretary. What does Hungarian energy diplomacy, the Hungarian government do in this situation? Do we have enough interest in fighting out real security of supply for our country, so that the Hungarian people can finally get access to natural gas in a truly safe, sustainable and affordable way? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-29-69	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for raising this issue here in the Parliament, given that security of energy supply may be the hottest issue in Central Europe, since countries in this region are extremely vulnerable, for example, in the case of Hungary, 85 percent of our gas needs are obtained from Russia, and this is not the highest rate if you look at the cases of Central European countries. What's going on right now? Honourable Congressman, The thing is, it's no exaggeration to say that we're under blockade from the south. In view of the fact that in 2010 we handed over gas interconnectors linking Hungary to Croatia and Romania, neither Croatia nor Romania - unlike us - made the investments that would enable them to transport gas to Hungary. This is not only a breach of bilateral agreements, but also a breach of EU obligations, as since 31 December 2013, two-way gas flows should be ensured on each interconnector. We will by no means accept or even find ridiculous the arguments that, unfortunately, even the European Union institutions sometimes raise that these investments do not need to be made, because gas cannot be bought from there. If this were the starting point, it would not have been necessary to adopt this EU legislation and, secondly, for both Croatia and Romania, there would be a need for investments that could lead to real gas shipments to Hungary, so we would think of either the Black Sea extractions or the construction of the LNG terminal in Croatia. Honourable Congressman, The situation can easily be that from 2019 we will be under blockade not only from the south but also from the east, given that the Russian declarations are clear: after 2019 they intend to cease transit through Ukraine. This can be taken seriously, too, but I think it was a trend-changing occasion for Gazprom, OMV, Shell and E.ON to sign a Memorandum of Understanding in St. Petersburg that the capacity of the North Stream would be strengthened. Thus, it is easy to come up with a strengthened North Stream, there will be a southern gas corridor, including Central Europe with a stopped Ukrainian transit, unrealised investments in the south-north, and then the question arises whether Central Europe is solely responsible for energy security in Central Europe or for Europe. I think that the energy security of Central Europe is European, and I am going further, a responsibility of the European Union, given that the European Union does have an obligation to ensure energy security in all its regions. [[15.20]] For this reason, I think it is important to stress that, in the case of Hungary, we do not agree with the position of the powerful players in our region in many cases that only the interconnectors should be built and strengthened, but that there is a need for a large strategic investment in this region. In Hungarian: Turkey must be connected to Central Europe, given that the gas will not only arrive in Turkey from Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, but probably from Russia and from Iran and Northern Iraq in the longer term. So we have to connect ourselves to Turkey. That is why I invited the Turkish Minister for European Affairs, the Macedonian, the Greek and Serbian Foreign Ministers at the beginning of April, when we declared a clear political position and a clear political commitment to carry out such an investment. I would like to inform you that last Thursday the professional consultation started here in Budapest, the representatives of the system managers and the energy wallets met and set the timetable for the agreement of system operators on the main parameters of this investment by the end of summer, so that this investment can be added to the list of priorities of the European Union. That's my long answer. The short answer is that there is a need for a strategic gas pipeline in the region without energy security in Central Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-70	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-71	Minister, we agree that this was also behind your unspoken thoughts, another eloquent proof of the European Union's two-facedness, that it contains sanctions against Russia, as it were, but if Western European countries profit from it, it is not so bad if they build economic and energy relations with Russia. The second is that Eastern Europe, Eastern Central Europe, has never been considered an equal partner in these debates. He did not say one thing, Minister - he repeated very nicely the ideas that appeared in my interpellation - when the Hungarian Government, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, was going to go out to Brussels and when he was going to strike the table on this issue, and when he would demand that Hungary, East and Central Europe, be treated in the same way as Germany and Western Europe with regard to gas supplies. I mean, we keep hearing about how another pipeline of the North Stream is going to work out, while the rest is just a foggy fantasy, foggy discussion, nothing concrete. This way we can easily move that Hungary will be without natural gas in a few years, or only very expensively, from Western Europe...
u2015-06-29-72	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-73	.......................................................................................................................................... We'll be able to buy it by installing Germany. So I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 107 votes to 29, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Family Recreation Discount." [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Before I give the floor to the Member, I would like to ask my fellow Members, with respect, to leave the Chamber silently because of their urgent public service, if that is very important. Thank you for your understanding. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-06-29-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Before December 5, 2004, in the anti-Hungarian campaign of Ferenc Gyurcsány and his government, the MSZP threatened us not to welcome our brothers and sisters across the border, because, I quote, we should not pay for our dreams, because the housing situation is difficult. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Obviously, this meant that Hungarians living in cross-border areas would take away our apartments. From the beginning of July 2015, the government significantly expands the family's home-building discount, the CSOK, formerly known as housing support, or, as is commonly known, the Socpol. Although in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period of the previous year, the number of built apartments decreased by 7 percent, while in Budapest by 2 percent, the number of new housing permits issued in the first three months of this year was 44 percent higher than in the same period of the previous year. According to the law, it will be possible to require support for the purchase of apartments already used in the CSOK system, which can solve the housing problems of many families, and also for those who do not have housing in their surroundings or have new buildings at an unrealisticly high price. For environmental reasons, the government also wants to put environmental incentives in the support programme. Families with young children or with children or planning to have children look forward to a new home creation discount. I ask the honourable Secretary of State, under what conditions and who will benefit from the new family home-building discount that will soon start. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-06-29-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I thank you very much for the fact that we can talk about this important issue here in Parliament, because I believe that the change in the circumstances of the home creation of families is a very important challenge that lies ahead. Unfortunately, there are many families in Hungary today, many young couples for whom the lack of a suitable home, the lack of suitable housing conditions are causing them not to have children or not to have another child. We would like to help these families with the benefit of families making homes. As Mr President said, there was an earlier aid scheme, which was indeed abolished by the Bajnai Government in 2009 and therefore there was no such aid at the time. Then, in 2012, the Fidesz government returned this support. Then we looked at the reason why around 500 families can benefit from this form of support each year, since we believe that there are significantly more people who need help buying the apartment or moving to a larger apartment. We have identified two points that may not have been sufficiently broad in the previous system. One is that in the past, we provided only support for the purchase of new properties, and there used to be a so-called semi-socpol - a lot of people remember it - which supported the purchase of used properties, half as much as the purchase of new properties. We have now changed this and broadened the system to a significant extent by using CSOK, the benefit of families to create homes, not only for new properties, but also for the purchase of used properties, and indeed the amount for used real estate is the same as for buying a new property. Here I would also say that if, say, a family lives in a rural family house, and there is an attic that they would build to create another nursery there, they could certainly use the benefit of making homes for families. Another significant change is the fact that at least two children had to be taken up or raised in the past to receive the aid, and we have now taken this limit down to one child. Therefore, aid may be granted for the taking up of a child or for the rearing of a child. So we are also targeting those who are about to have children and, within four years, undertake the birth of two children within one or eight years; and those who are currently raising children and who need this support to move to a new property, a larger property. What I think is very important is that the support, ranging from HUF 500,000 to HUF 3 million, depends on the number of children, the size of the property and, indeed, the energy rating, is an amount that assumes a certain amount of self-esteem, but by no means serves the support of high-income families in a better-than-average financial situation, but that we are able to support families with average incomes, their average situation, their average housing purchase, or their financial situation. That is why we have installed filters such as the maximum price per square metre, the maximum property value or the maximum size of the property, or the fact that the claimant cannot have a property, then he will no longer be entitled to the aid. Overall, CSOK, the family's home-building discount is a very significant home-building program, which also aims to achieve the goal of having all the desired children, all the planned children in Hungary, and not to prevent them from having a place to place the crib, or, later on, the grandma child may not have a room of his own. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-06-29-78	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-29-79	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. At my host hour, I was approached by several people with the problem and the question of whether more people could actually benefit from the new provisions, and it is certainly comforting and encouraging for them to have access to lower incomes and to expand their housing. And as a living person in the countryside, I was pleased to hear that used apartments are also included in this system, since the unselling properties of small settlements so far can also be a very nice and friendly home for families who are having children. Thank you, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:30. We're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "Are there any awareness-modifying incomes? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2015-06-29-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, We already knew that the heads of the central bank were not ashamed to take on side jobs, and that they were not ashamed to raise serious salaries and fees, but it is a new phenomenon that they forget to admit this in their declarations of assets, although they are obliged to do so by law. György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank and Vice-President Ferenc Gerhardt together made a total of HUF 26 million from various foundations, but this was not indicated in their declaration of assets, which is a crime. The prosecution itself acknowledged the fact of this crime, but it created a sentence which is a unique ingenuity of the Hungarian language, and why, despite all this, it does not investigate the matter, why it does not ultimately consider all of this to be a crime. The Public Prosecutor's Office's statement states that:. The persons reported - i.e. the President and Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank - have not been directly associated with the fee, the amounts did not appear in their consciousness as their own income, so to conclude that their knowledge of the provision of false data could not have been achieved. That's quite simply a gem, so the poets with the bridesmaids couldn't have guessed that, let alone the prosecution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, How is that possible? Do you think that György Matolcsy was unaware that he made some 14 million forints? If he was aware, why didn't he confess? And if he didn't confess, then why do you think that's not a crime? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-06-29-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Attorney General Péter Polt. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-29-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the case referred to, a complaint was received against the President and Deputy President of the Central Bank for the offences of fiscal fraud and forgery of private documents. V-XIII. The District Attorney's Office ruled on this complaint and rejected it, as the Member referred to it. The reasons for the decision are long enough, I will try to simplify and explain to the Member the substance of it. As regards fiscal fraud, the complaint itself did not contain a single element of the facts, so the complaint was rejected in the absence of a factual nature. As far as private document counterfeiting is concerned, the conceptual elements of the crime are not only a matter of fact, but also of guilt, in this case it is missing. The sentence that the congressman quoted more or less on the basis of the resolution suggests this. So there was no intentional crime that would have led to the crime being committed, the accused acted in good faith, and therefore the crime could not have been carried out. I think that the wording of the sentence may be complicated, but the matter itself is relatively simple and easy to understand; I hope that after that, too, the Member. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-84	I thank the Attorney General for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-06-29-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, that's funny. So, I guess there's the money that makes you think it doesn't have to appear in the mind. But the thing is, even though I don't have much opinion about György Matolcsy's state of mind, I have repeatedly voiced this, and I wouldn't think he was aware of it either. At the same time, something happened which contradicts your words: the amended declaration of assets, which revealed that some of the income from the foundations was retained by the President of the Central Bank for himself and that he only transferred part of it to foundations. Now, how is it that someone is in such a strange altered state of mind that he keeps some of the money he deserves for himself, and he transfers some of it away, but he's not so aware of everything that he confesses to in his declaration of assets? Mr. Attorney General, how do you think that goes?
u2015-06-29-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Attorney General is entitled to a rebuttal answer. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-29-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, These are rights-dogmatic questions. I was talking about guilt. You're talking about something else. Here, in the case of guilt, I must probably explain that, of course, the President, Mr Vice-President, knew that this income came from somewhere, but in good faith he was wrong not to mention it, because he did not keep it, but transferred it. As far as his other statement is concerned, so that there are differences between the amounts here, I think that this is a new fact, which is that if the report - because we have already heard that there will be a new report - appears, the prosecution will examine it and assess it in its decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-88	I thank the Attorney General for his reply back. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you tolerate it? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2015-06-29-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the gravity of the case, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2015-06-29-90	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is the sneaky one now? It's an address. The Prime Minister's duty is urgent... [[György Szilágyi is not in the room. János Volner says no. Intercoms.]] Yeah, Congressman's not staying... [[Interviews from Jobbik: László Lukács! Dr. Répássy, Róbert: What is László Lukács?]] Please, Congressman György Szilágyi is on the agenda. [[Intercoms from the governing parties and Jobbik.]] I'm so sorry, but... [[János Lázár: Does the Jobbik not come? That's impossible! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fine of Faction! It's a ticket!]] ... the congressman is not in the Chamber, I must record this for the minutes, however much they may have tried to trick me. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, István Apáti... You're not in the room, too? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: What's in Jobbik? Dr. István Simicskó: Looking for Szilágyi! Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik faction is falling apart! Where's the discipline? Where's the discipline?! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] István Apáti... [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik faction.]] Dear Parliament, the representatives of Jobbik did not appear. [[Tibor Bana: László Lukács is here!]] László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Employment Certificate." The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[15.40]]
u2015-06-29-91	Thank you very much, I accept your response.
u2015-06-29-92	Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-93	Dear Minister, I chose this title as the title of my speech because there is a situation in health where the word "poor" can best describe the conditions. In the last week, the poor hospital, which is one of the foundations of the poverty certificate, started its operation, in which the demonstrators want to draw the government's attention - and thus also to the Prime Minister's attention - to the state of health. The most common conditions of health care, the 60-year-old instruments used, the worn-out beds, the diagnostic tools there can easily be seen by you when visiting the József Rádor Square and accepting their guests and visiting them as guests. There are conditions in health care, and now we all know that they provide under-critical food to people, those who want to heal, and we are faced with a head quota - 550 forints - that has become virtually unfulfilled and from which there is no way to get the right rations. But it is safe to say that health itself shows poor conditions, that a lot of money has gone into concrete, and we have spent a lot of money on buildings from European Union funds, but many times in these buildings, as we have already heard today, there is no care in Tatabánya, for example, and care must be done outside the building, or the new building has tools with which patients cannot heal properly. For this reason, and in view of this, I believe that the government and therefore the Prime Minister have issued a certificate of poverty, which is in the first place in the certificate of poverty, the amount of government resources in this area shows an insufficient certificate, insufficient funding and insufficient organisation of the health system in the certificate. Dear Minister, What are you going to do? Is this area important to Viktor Orbán? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you feel the increased health situation? [[The president's ringing again.]] How would you like to correct your poverty certificate? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-94	Thank you. I request that the time frame be observed. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-95	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague László Lukács, First of all, I would not in any way like to take the bread of Mr Gábor Zombor, who, as my colleague, is a secretary of state in this area, I think he is not only a representative but also a good representative of interest. It is largely due to his work that, in recent years, most of the development resources, a very significant part, 500 billion forints, as you say, have been built into concrete and bricks. I would add that our fellow Member is calling to the attention to the fact that there are these large construction projects, and what bad infrastructure conditions there are in hospitals. It is undisputed that health infrastructure in Hungary, up to 50-60 years old or 100 years old, is the hospital infrastructure that we all use, mostly built up before World War II or even World War I. So I think that we agree that these hospitals should be renewed, whether in Budapest, where the government believes that a new, truly European or world-class, modern hospital is needed, or in the countryside where the Fidesz fraction was convinced - together with KDNP - that no hospital can be closed or demolished, all hospitals in Hungary are needed. Over the last 15 years, these debates have been ongoing. You know that a referendum has also confirmed the intention that the hospital health care system is needed in Hungary in this organisational form. The wage-setting process of healthcare workers has started, which is obviously a difficult issue, as Hungary exhibits the best-trained health care workers, doctors and nurses, with enormous demand and demand in Western Europe, and we have invested HUF 500 billion in hospital infrastructure. The next question is how we move on, what will move on, how can we get the profession and society to accept the idea that in the next period everyone - the state and the people - has a lot to do to preserve their health and to avoid disease. That is what we want to focus on in the next period, which I will address for another minute in my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-96	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I would have liked to have listened to the fact that since they were trying to cosmeticize this certificate, which, speaking of a school period, I really value as an inadequate certificate in my own reading. However, I can see the attempt, but this may still be little to allow a sufficient certificate to be issued. What is more important, and if you do not have to listen to my voice, you do not have to listen to my opinion in this, but I strongly suggest that on 1 July at the otherwise great demonstration, where the MESZK and Fakoos will also demonstrate, so that two different organisations can demonstrate differently, they can listen to what people think of this certificate, and how much they feel about your actions, which would bring you from the insufficient mark to sufficient. I understand and feel that they continue to value the government's activities in this regard to insufficient value, and I therefore think that you should be entitled to a certificate of poverty. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-99	The only reason I dared to answer your question is because I was the only Member of Parliament in Hungary in 2007 - including both sides of Parliament - who took the liberty and organised an opinional protest in order to save our own city hospital, where 20,000 people came together in order to remain a hospital and develop there. I think, therefore, that I am right to stand here, and I understand exactly what you are talking about as a rural representative, and I agree with you that the development of rural supply facilities is of the utmost importance. My second comment is that Hungarian society appreciates doctors, values nurses, and Hungarian patients do try to take into account the government's aspirations. Therefore, if we look at the surveys, the support for our improvements in health care is very high. During the next period, we would like to invest in the provision of general medical services, health care and disease prevention, and we will continue to develop hospitals. We would like a specific programme to strengthen higher education in health care. It may not be enough for you, but I hope that the voters will appreciate it in 18th grade. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-100	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: Is that a record? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-06-29-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 1 June, my colleague István Ikotity asked me about the state of play of the rural development programme, when you were able to say that the government was discussing the latest version of the rural development programme that week and whether it could be submitted in Brussels during the month. Since then, I have been informed that Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Romania, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain have already adopted the rural development programme, and that since May, the countryside has had the opportunity to use such resources for development, so I would respectfully ask how the Hungarians are doing. Obviously, that's why I'm interested, because we can tell you more than one record. The original version of the rural development programme was 940 pages long, with a record short period of one month for everyone to comment on bilingual material. However, the programme received a record of 68 social opinions. Now the last version I found is an 876-page material, now slowly completely revised, and the other record that we do not know how authentic Brussels is is, how many times this has had to be revised, how many times it has had to be converted, and how much is its relationship with the original, which has been monitored by social opinion. Because slowly, as I looked at the material, both the change in the range of candidates and the change in some titles raises the basic problem that what went through the social opinion was a completely different programme. My question is, since it is past June that the Minister is able to say something encouraging about when there will be calls for proposals, when there will be calls for proposals, when there will be approval in Brussels, at all, from social opinions, from 68 that can be incorporated, how we can return to the direction in which civil society organisations are included in the category of beneficiaries. In some cases, there are beneficiaries who, for example, need to have an office in each LEADER group, which raises several questions. So if we could see clearly when and when this is going to become a tender system, I would thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-06-29-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-29-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Several people have missed you here in this Chamber in recent weeks. It is still a pleasant opportunity to mention some things about records and rural development, but I do not do so now, given that I appreciate your personal commitment and even know your experience, and I know the work you have done on the substance opinion, and I appreciate that very much, and I take your question seriously. That is why I know that you must know the changes that took place in the summer of 2014. [[15.50]] In 2014, we agreed that instead of the previous large-scale support model, small and medium-sized farms should be given room and opportunity within the rural development operational programme. We also realized from our own mistakes that, for example, in the agri-environmental management programme, the big ones, not the small ones, and not the medium ones, were also given a decisive opportunity. Therefore, the answer to the first question is why everything had to be changed, in order to think that small and medium-sized people receive support in the Hungarian agricultural policy, in line with the opinions referred to by the entire Parliament and the entire Hungarian public, society. You know very well that in 2006 there was an agreement with Brussels from the hands of the then government that put the greats in a position at the expense of the little ones. So the first conversion point is that 80% of the aid should be given to the small ones and 20 percent of the aid should be given to the large ones who, by the way, are undoubtedly employed and contribute to Hungary's competitiveness. In June, the government adopted the rural development operational programme and submitted it to Brussels, we really had to change it for the reasons cited above, this change took place and Brussels accepted it. The first time, 25 years after the change in the system, is so that we can show in a support document our specific social policy goal, that 80 percent of the aid goes to the small and medium-sized ones and only 20 to the large ones. I consider it the greatest success that Brussels will adopt the operational programme for rural development with this chapter. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-104	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-06-29-105	Dear Minister, Thank you for your kind words, too. I'm not a mayor of Hódmezővásárhely, but I really tried to do what I could for my narrower environment. Let me just say that this is an important aspect for the small and large, because it is only Minister who, in front of the press, undertakes that the current trends are still going in a different direction, unfortunately, and the change is a serious need. However, it is very, very important to say that in the current structure, the pre-financing system needs still cannot help those where pre-financing or improvements are needed the most. It would be very good to define the concept of small and large in abstract terms, since in the case of small estates and large estates, I have not yet been able to see how many hectares we define this, but we could do it on the basis of a concept for farmers and food producers. At the same time, it remains of concern if it still responds to the reasons why non-governmental organisations should be excluded from the beneficiaries, as this is a serious change between the first and the second programme version, which gives rise to many concerns. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-29-106	Thank you. You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-107	Maybe I'll start with the qualifying round. Indeed, I was not in favour of supporting the LEADER groups, because it was not transparent and transparent, as these groups received money - by the way, I almost have to say, regardless of governments - so we suggested to Brussels that, in the next seven-year cycle, only up to 5 percent of these types of civil organizations would be given, and we are working with our colleagues to create a completely new system to close and create a new system of support for civil LEADER organisations in the 2007-13 period. As far as your comment is concerned, in order to get the money really for the little ones, I believe that the Hungarian political elite's over 150 years of dilemma is the debate between the large and small estates. Let me point out here that over the last seven years, rural development funds, which should have been spent on rural development, have received 50% of the aid. So, the cash register was worth 1 percent of the thousands of billions, and 75 percent of the holdings were added to 5 percent. This will not result in prosperity in the countryside unless we try to distribute these resources more fairly, in which the government is an ally of all political forces. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-108	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "We have called on more European Union funds than ever in 2014. To what do we owe this success? It's an address. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor.
u2015-06-29-109	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few days, KPMG International Advisory Company published the EU Funds in Central and Eastern Europe report, which shows that 87 percent of the resources of the 2007-13 EU grant cycle have already reached the beneficiaries in Hungary by the end of 2014, which represents an increase of 25 percentage points compared to the 2013 payment rates. It is very interesting that the report also makes a regional comparison, according to which Hungary is the second member of the EU countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007. In view of the above, I would like to ask Minister what is behind last year's success with regard to EU funds calls, how we have speeded up the drawdown of EU funds and what is expected of this in the future. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-110	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-111	I thank you, Mr President, not only for the fact that Mr Zala's commitment to development has long been known as a member of the county of Zala, but also as a politician conducting transport improvements, I think you know very well that in Hungary, given the current budgetary and economic relations, there would have been no development over the last seven years if there had been no European Union funds, and there would have been a need for much more economic growth in Europe and Hungary than 3-4 percent economic growth, if we had lost these funds, we could somehow replace it. So the first sentence is that the good and reasonable allocation of these development resources is of fundamental interest to the country. Then - I hope - at the end of 2015 or early 2016 Parliament will find an opportunity to assess whether or not the HUF 8200 billion that we distribute between 2007 and 13 is in the right place. Now it may be safe to say that we will be able to allocate resources. In 2012-13, officials of the European Union predicted to Hungary that HUF 500-600 billion of funding would be lost by the end of 2015. Compared to this, as Parliamentary Members finally have at their disposal a study, which is completely independent of the government, which uses the European Commission's materials, clearly states that there is no risk of loss of funds for Hungary, and we even prevented Poland and all Central European countries from drawing funds. This contributed substantially to last year's economic growth by several thousand billion forints. This year we have to pay HUF 2200 billion. I am happy to report to the Parliament that today we will make a HUF 1000 billion payment, which is a very good result in a six-month comparison; in the last quarter, there are the biggest payments. So we call off the money for the first cycle, and then we have to settle a debate about whether we called it right, whether we called the money for the right purposes and the right goals, while we now have to start drawing on new funds in 2014 and 2015. So it is in particular that, by changing the institutional system, the government was able to achieve significant results in 2013-14. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-112	Thank you, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2015-06-29-113	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Let me ask you one more question: whether it follows from this that the system has changed and that the drawing of resources has been more successful and that they are planning to draw significantly greater resources in the next cycle, in the next seven-year cycle, at the beginning of the cycle.
u2015-06-29-114	Thank you, Congressman. You have the right to a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-115	If you allow me, it is also worth drawing on systemic lessons because in 2010-11 I was involved - then as a group leader - in the debate on whether the EU development policy system should be broken down, what risks there are. Between 2007-10, the Socialist Government paid a total of HUF 900 billion, as I am talking about the result of the first half of the year - under four years. I think it was a mistake that we didn't dare touch the EU development institution system in 2010-11; fortunately, at the end the government had the courage to change the system. We expect that the system will bring substantial and positive results for the new proposals. We are looking forward to the feedback of Members of Parliament, representatives of interest groups, as hundreds of billions of HUF GINOP applications have already been launched, and our plan is indeed to make 80-90 percent of the available funding available to society and the country in 2016-17. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-116	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who are those bastards? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, A few years ago, József Ángyán said - former Fidesz State Secretary - that mob families appoint members of the government. [[16.00]] A few days ago, the former President of Baranya County Municipality, Zsolt Tiffán, on his Facebook page, revealed the use of grants. He literally said, " Viktor, don't you see, they're mobsters." And then he added, "Sometimes, I really feel like we need to grow out of the armor to endure all the reproach these bastards are putting on us." Dear Minister, This is also an extraordinary issue, since the city of Pécs can use more than HUF 30 billion of EU funds in the future, and the Baranya county municipality can use an EU resource of 38 billion. An ex-president and a current Member of Parliament raises such questions, publishing such a Facebook entry, which, I think, may be a cause for concern. As a minister, you have repeatedly demonstrated that you sometimes speak frankly and even promised to investigate a number of cases. That's why I'm asking you, if you know, tell me who these bastards are. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If you do not know, do not know, then make a statement as to whether an inquiry will be launched to find out who your fellow Member Tiffan was thinking of, and whether there will be any consequences to the suggestion of Zsolt Tiffán. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-29-119	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to endure in Parliament for the words of my fellow Member Zsolt Tiffán. This is an honor. At the same time, I tried to be a good believer, even an ally and supporter of Zsolt Tiffán, not only as a winemaker, but also as a Member of Parliament. Therefore, I appreciate the work of our friend Zsolt Tiffán. I know exactly how determined and vehement, strong, character-like personality is, just like your wines. This means that he always speaks honestly and clearly what he is doing because it is obvious that, in the context of the implementation of the Ős-Drava programme, which is a social, ecological, social and environmental programme involving serious billions, in one of the poorest, most difficult and most difficult areas in the country, he is really struggling to keep the government's promises and the government's word. Of course, where money is distributed, there are almost many applicants in order to spend it; there are far fewer people who come looking for it than to spend it. My fellow Member Tiffan, I understand, described the county relations when he wrote this in his Facebook post. I haven't been able to talk to him yet, but in any case, the last part of my answer will be that I have to do what I have to do to talk to him. By the way, we know who shares the brains in the county. We're talking about two people, and they're not in the same party, but they're the ones who split the money. I don't know who those two people are in Baranya County. [[István Apáti: I'll whisper!]] The one who splits the money. [[István Apáti: One of the...]] Who's the other one, because it's two people? [[István Apáti: The other Butcher!]] Who could be one and who could be the other who lives in Baranya County, we don't know that. What I can tell you is that the government, holding a government meeting along the Ancient Drava, is convinced that this programme is needed by the county and the region. We fully support Zsolt Tiffán in this work, we know that there are conflicts of interest and conflicts of interest, and in a very poor area we are talking about spending a very significant amount of money. But I also think it is important that Zsolt Tiffán dares to take his opinion, and I also hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it with him here in Parliament. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-120	Thank you, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-06-29-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for raising the issue of the Ancient-Drava programme. It was announced and presented with a great nuance that the government wants to spend EU funds in one of the poorest regions of the country worth HUF 25 billion. Compared to this, we managed to build a visitation centre in this large vehemencia for just over a billion forints. I would like to tell you that, as far as I know, a company in Szeged has managed to do this, even though it is well known that they are in the Ormania as well as in Baranya County, there have been, and perhaps there will be, suitable construction contractors who could have done so. Dear Minister, I asked specific questions. If there is any such suspicion that you have mentioned, please consider that this HUF 25 billion, if any, is still involved in this investment, opportunity, really reach the small region, and that the people there can benefit from it, not villains. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-122	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-06-29-123	Thank you very much. It is likely that the delay in the programme is linked to how many public bodies it is entrusted to. It can't be counted. In any case, everyone who represents the state in that region is involved in this. I'm telling you, 25 billion forints in that county in Baranya is a lot of money. Somogy also has its effects. I mention this because I can probably blame myself for the delay in the programme, because public procurement supervision, which contributes to public procurement, has refused to initiate the procurement procedure that has been presented in the Ős-Drava case on dozens of occasions. I wanted to guarantee the transparency and rationality of spending public money. That's what I'm going to do in the future, even if it's an accidental delay. I believe that, because of a few weeks or a few months of delay, we cannot abandon our intention to do everything decently there. The next EU cycle will name 11 billion separately, and the original 25 billion programme will also be held. If there is a specific announcement, whether from Zsolt Tiffán or from you, I will, of course, investigate the specific cases. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-124	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Why are the Tiszabezdéd murderers on the loose? It's an address. I ask the Member whether he will accept the Secretary of State, Károly Kontra, appointed by the Minister for his reply.
u2015-06-29-125	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-06-29-126	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Abbot.
u2015-06-29-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At Tiszabezdéd, between 3 and 4 p.m. on June 1st, Gyula Varga was on his way home from his outdoor garden. On the way, he met three or four - even the exact number of suspects - of strawberry and gypsy origins, who, as the investigation stands, attacked him without a word for any reason. [[László Teleki: They declared that they were Gypsies!]] and was so severely abused that he had to be hospitalized with life-threatening injuries. [[László Teleki: You made a statement, didn't you?]] He was already resuscitated twice in the ambulance, and at 9:35 p.m. on June 10, 53 - year - old driver, father of two, died of injuries. The police apprehended the suspected perpetrators on the day of the murder. That's okay so far. However, it is not okay that all but one have been released, all but one, are on parole. At the moment, although the injuries are clear, only the victim's head was hit and kicked by the perpetrators, they're being prosecuted for the crime of assault. The police couldn't even name it as a felony of fatal assault. There's a very big difference, there's a lot of responsibility on the part of the authorities, because the punishment of a death-related assault for 2 to 8 years, the basic case of a manslaughter from 10 to 20 years, in the case of a manslaughter certified to be committed with extreme cruelty from 10 to 20 years of imprisonment or life imprisonment. There is therefore a huge difference not only in years but also in all other legal consequences. We are at the moment, Mr Secretary of State, so that everyone knows who sells the cheap drug Herbal in the respective settlements, in this case, in Tiszabezdédéd. Supposedly, the attackers, the perpetrators, were under the influence of this drug, since two other people were beaten that day. The driver was assaulted the most severely, he didn't survive the assault. How could an investigation of assault occur, how could it happen that no drug tests have been taken? How is it that all but one of them are on the loose and are free to threaten the most important witness in the case, who, by the way, is a decent, respected Gypsy-born person living in a place? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[László Teleki: You made a statement, didn't you? A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-29-128	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2015-06-29-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said at the beginning of your immediate question, you asked about an ongoing prosecution. I would like to say that, in view of the interests of the procedure, I can only give you information on this matter in a narrow manner, but I would like to note that on 1 June 2015, the officers of the Zahony Police Department captured and produced three young men and one young adult male who could be associated with the crime on the basis of primary data. Following the clarification of the facts, the interrogation of witnesses, the young adult-age man who denied the crime was questioned as a suspect after the confrontation was carried out. The arrest was carried out on 2 June 2015, after which the police presented the suspect and the county attorney General's Office's motion the Nyíregyháza District Court placed him in a preliminary arrest on 3 June 2015. [[16.10]] Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say here that criminal proceedings are under way. The police are also acting under the law in this case, the police are trying to find out the truth; and I would also like to say that no one is above the law, and this procedure will prove it: regardless of race, denomination, gender, race, origin, the police act with the highest rigour against all perpetrators. That's what he's doing in this case. Let us trust that the truth will be revealed and that sinners will be punished. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the right to a rejoinder, Congressman Abbot.
u2015-06-29-131	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, There was no consideration of the ongoing criminal proceedings in the Portik-Labor case and in the case of Gábor Simon. There, everyone was brave to comment, leaking information. We're not defending these suspects. It's just an interesting double standard again. Let there be no mistake or misunderstanding between us, honourable Members. If three or four Hungarians had beaten a Gypsy man to death, we would have the exact same opinion, we would have made exactly the same arguments. It is not our fault that these perpetrators also belonged to the largest minority in Hungary. Just tell me, Mr. Secretary, if a young man in a settlement the size of Tiszabezded knows who sells drugs, where, when, the police don't realize that. Why are the dealers and Neppers free? That's one of the questions. The other one. When, without expert opinion, visual evidence shows that the victim's upper arm clearly has marks that either his arm was crucified or trampled on his arm and kicked in such a way that his head was smashed so that he wasn't investigated for manslaughter? ! A sophomore law student knows that, and a police commissioner doesn't! So I think you need to put him in his place, get him there properly, ask the police leaders of your subordinates. Let us not let these criminals, nor those who are against life, nor those dealers who, in an unscrupulous manner, constantly sell material that endangers the lives of dozens of people. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-132	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall have a rejoinder.
u2015-06-29-133	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of my reply, I said that in view of the effectiveness of the investigation, the interests of the investigation, I would like to say nothing more, but I would like to record three things. One, the autopsy report hasn't arrived yet. In view of this, it may also carry out the qualification of the offence and the appropriate qualification. Two, you say that everyone in this settlement knows who they are who sell drugs. Honourable Congressman, Help the police. Tell them, tell them, let the police know who those people are. And I can promise you that. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] - if you'll listen, Congressman, if you'd like to hear my opinion - that the police are acting with the utmost rigour. Our government is definitely taking action against drug offenders, drug dealers. Please cooperate. If it's really important to you that you don't sell ounces of drugs there, then let the police know. I think we can provide all the conditions for the police to act against drug dealers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How does the government help nursing mothers in their institutions? It's an address. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-06-29-135	Yeah.
u2015-06-29-136	It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann.
u2015-06-29-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This morning, within the framework of the Committee on Culture, a subcommittee for Women's Dignity was established, which set out to help women's respect in society and to do everything in the interest of women's dignity, as the name of the subcommittee shows. It is my pleasure that men are also involved in this subcommittee in a rather unique way. I myself, as a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, took up work in this subcommittee with pleasure. In my capacity, I would like to address and ask the Secretary of State, in a matter which has also become known nationwide, and which, although the press has ruled - one of the press organisations - that an elephant has been made of a beetle, it is an important matter. What happened a good ten days ago was that in an international fast food chain plant in Budapest, a mother wanted to breast-feed her baby, asking for permission from the restaurant employee; she received the permission, started breast-feeding, and then the security guard approached her, and told her that it was not working properly, and so on, expelled her from the restaurant. Instantly, a bunch of mothers organized a demonstration there the next day. And the owners and management of the restaurant chain said they'd condemn the security guard's operation. So the case is fine, however, it is worth asking: can the government, although it was a private company, do something to avoid such cases, and what do you intend to do in order to keep women's dignity from being trampled so deeply? [[Applause in the pro-government, LMP and better benches.]]
u2015-06-29-138	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-29-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, This news, as well as the action that followed, drew attention to the question that arises in many families, and it is difficult for many people that a mother, when she is on her way, buys or visits someone, and in the meantime her baby should be cleaned or breast-fed, how and what opportunities she has for doing so. When we say that we are building a family-friendly Hungary, this is what we are trying to confirm with all our measures in the area of family policy, it is not only important that we say, in the last five years, or if we are counting next year's budget, in six years we leave a total of HUF 1100 billion to families compared to the 2010 level, if we add the six-year number together with the budget adopted for next year, but it is also important that each person has a much more comfortable life and less difficulty in raising and caring for the child. It is an important part of this kindergarten and kindergarten building program, since we are building crèches and kindergartens at three times and one and a half times the rate compared to similar numbers in the previous period, which is also important for child placement. This is very important, since not only in financial cases, but also in other burdens, which would discourage a person from having children. This is why it was important for the Ministry of Human Resources to support such plans, although Hungary, if we look at the practices of the various EU countries, is in a satisfactory position to support breastfeeding. It is enough to refer here to the protective service, which helps mothers with small children as a hungaricum in Hungary; but in addition - and I will return to this in return - I have also managed to support a mobile phone application by the Ministry of Human Resources in the last year, which, for example, can help mothers on the road in this tight situation. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann.
u2015-06-29-141	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your information. This morning, at the meeting of the subcommittee, we received information of similar content, exhaustive and positive nature from the Secretary of State. That is not why I raised this issue, but to help to draw public attention to the fact that respect for women and respect for women leave much to be desired in Hungary. Often, they look at mothers with many children, their children on the way to nursing mothers who have obviously not been able to do this elsewhere, and this mentality is worth changing. I ask the government with all due respect to raise your voice in such a case. As I said, this happened in a private restaurant, so it doesn't have direct influence, but in thinking, strengthening values, also as a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, for which family, motherhood is a very important value, please continue to work successfully. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-06-29-143	Thank you very much for the floor. So I pick up where I left off. This application, supported by the EMMI, was created in the care of the Family Net, to display diapers and nursing rooms on a map. This is obviously also important, since we all know how important it is to children, both physiologically and spiritually, in this small infanthood, so that their mother can feed the child directly on her body; in the future, it can be felt whether it has a health or a psychological positive effect. [[16.20]] We tried to encourage the workplaces in the "Family-friendly workplace" and "Family-friendly public thinking" application, where mothers can also diapers and breast-feed. In 2014, we supported 39 employers with HUF 22.1 million, and we distributed HUF 60 million in support of the project. I would also like to draw your attention to another application that we support, my sweet baby, which from the moment of conception to the age of one year is also a kind of pregnant diary, and will help you with everything that can be done to help your mother and the baby in the belly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Do you think there is any reason for civil servants to celebrate on 1 July? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-06-29-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, The 1st of July in Hungary is now traditionally the day of civil servants and government officials, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are virtually over 100,000 people in this country who have absolutely no reason to celebrate, and the reason for this is the wage situation. You know, I'm talking about people who haven't had their wages up in eight years, eight years next year, and we're basically seeing a third of the public sector earning below the minimum living. And I can also tell you, Minister, that you have completely forgotten about civil servants. Although government officials received vague promises - I tried to retrace your communication - in March they told government officials that they would receive a 30 percent wage increase, which will increase to 50 percent in three years. In April, it was claimed that the net 78 thousand earners would have an immediate wage increase, and now we are talking about about about half of the original idea, so that 35 thousand non-leading government officials would receive some sort of supplement. Dear Minister, The situation is unblessed in Hungary. I would like to ask you two specific questions. On the one hand, what can you say, Minister, to civil servants who work tirelessly in the offices of thousands of small settlements in Hungary? They are civil servants, who have now experienced most of the poverty in the workforce very closely. And my other question relates to a former instant, because I still don't know exactly what will happen to people who were civil servants in the local government, then they were transferred to government offices and, as a matter of fact, became government officials. I keep getting letters, Mr. Secretary. In 2012, there were about 12,000 people involved, these people either lost their wages fairly or did not rise, but in any case you can see that they have just committed an assassination because they changed the rules in the legal status law and no longer have to keep the salary at a level until the introduction of the career model. In the letters, I saw that there were tens of thousands of net wage cuts here. What about these people, Minister?
u2015-06-29-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-29-147	Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member. Mr President, In Hungary, it is not so easy to count how many people work as state and municipal officials. The OECD says that the state spends about 20 percent of GDP on its own, which is much more on the international average than is typical in other countries and even above the European average. So while the OECD's May study calls on us to see how much we spend on the state and how many people live from the state, it is absolutely legitimate to have a stable career, predictable existence and adequate earnings available to all who serve the country as officials, whether it be municipal officials or government officials. Obviously, I can only comment on your question in the name of the latter and in the interest of the latter. I say there are about 1 million 100,000 of the 4 million 100,000 legal workers who work around the state, of which there are 750-800 thousand officials, and so far we have settled the lives of 400,000 officials, i.e. every second official or government official, with the help of careers. We provide a significant increase in wages for law enforcement workers, for example, from 1 July. In the case of government officials, I can tell you that the 2016 budget has earmarked HUF 25 billion for the wage increase to be introduced on 1 July 2016, the legal conditions of which will be discussed by the Parliament - I hope with your cooperation - in the autumn of 2015. We will present the new career model for government officials by October 2015. This means that we obviously need to speak separately about municipal officials, where there is nothing against local governments - not today - to pay people. Some were transferred to the government office and made four times as much money as the state official. That's good for you to know, especially in cities with county rights. The transformation of government offices has been the biggest challenge, and I believe that the biggest administrative reform of the last hundred years has been carried out flawlessly by government officials who work there. I would also like to talk about this, as well as about their wage conditions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-148	Thank you, Minister. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind will have the floor in a minute.
u2015-06-29-149	I am very disappointed in the politicalisation of Fidesz-KDNP in this area as well, and many government officials and civil servants are disappointed. If we look at the 2016 budget, we see that this disappointment will remain permanent if you do not intervene. By calculating what is in this budget, we see that there is at least HUF 500 billion in completely unnecessary, wasteful luxury expenditure. Dear Minister, According to our calculations, this money could have been used to remedy the situation of the entire public sector, and they would have been able to resolve the situation of social workers and daycare workers, but they would also have been able to resolve the situation of health workers who are now protesting at József Rádor Square in the poor hospital, but they are coming to Kossuth Square soon. Dear Minister, Do it, come out to Kossuth Square, talk to these people, and then say the words you just said about a significant wage increase, and the rest. What I see is that you have failed these people. You have failed a lot of people who are working to ensure that public services are at the best possible level for the population. Unfortunately, Minister, quite a lot of you are disappointed.
u2015-06-29-150	Thank you very much. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister.
u2015-06-29-151	Well, who's that, you know, Congresswoman, because you're a list Member, and I'm a quarter-elected individual representative from a district with two hospitals, speaking of health care workers. I don't know the lives of health workers from the news. I meet them regularly. Also, as former mayor, I know exactly what pay conditions government officials and civil servants live in. The life balance of a worker whose salary will be increased by 50 percent by 1 July next year will be substantially modified. If you calculate that about 30 000 government officials will receive 25 billion forints for six months, which will obviously be at least 50 billion forints for a year, and that this will have to be kept in the system coming up in the coming years, you can see that taxpayers will sacrifice hundreds of billions for government officials. I can tell you one thing: the wage increase starts from the bottom, so we will start the wage arrangement for the 27 thousand non-leading employees who work in district offices, and many of them stand next to the customer counter for 70-80-100 thousand forints and wait for customers in 197 districts and 270 government offices. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-152	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Within the framework of the agenda, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice the following question:, Another slap on the title of freedom of information. You will ask the question if you accept the Secretary of State, Répássy Róbert, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-06-29-153	I'll take it.
u2015-06-29-154	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Szabó.
u2015-06-29-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We knew that the government was planning to amend the Act on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information, as it was included in the legislative programme before Parliament by submitting, negotiating and adopting it in April. And we also knew its purpose, its purpose is basically to address practical problems and contradictions in the application of the law. That would have been the basic goal. In comparison, in addition to the previous regulatory objective, a number of new amendments have been included in the submitted bill, which limit the rights of data applicants and, according to the SAO, reach open unconstitutionality in at least two cases. Most of the changes are, by the way, aimed at making data requests impossible. I would like to draw attention to two things in this regard. One is that data produced or used to justify a decision in the course of the procedure for taking a decision within the remit of the task of the public service mission are not public for 10 years from the date of its establishment and may be rejected in the future. I ask the Secretary of State if this is really serious. Because in fact, they claim that if a later data is found, it is the basis for this reference to be drawn forward for ten years in the future. The second major amendment concerns the extension of the reimbursement of data requests. So far, in terms of data request, only copying had to be paid, but now it has to be paid even if it involves disproportionate work. [[16.30]] What does disproportionate work mean? Why does it mean extra work if we're pulling data from a data medium? I don't think that's gonna mean extraterrestrial. It is clear that these amendments make the situation of data seekers significantly difficult. That's why I'm asking why you want to make excuses to shut the public out. What they're hiding, or maybe they already think [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Is there nothing to do with Hungarian citizens? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-29-156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2015-06-29-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Today, the bill will be discussed at 5:45 p.m., i.e. in one and a quarter hours, on the basis of the legislative committee and our agreed agenda, the plenary session of Parliament will be held tomorrow afternoon. I suggest that we discuss your questions then, since these questions cannot be answered in two minutes, but I will also inform you in detail or the interested Members about the presentation of the Minister of Justice. I ask you to understand that we do not discuss this bill in the form of an immediate question, since you have put the bill on the agenda of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó in return.
u2015-06-29-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We must have gotten used to the fact that Fidesz has little strength in social coordination. We have also become accustomed to the fact that there is ongoing force politics not only here in Parliament but also outside the walls of Parliament. However, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask you whether or not the proposal itself will be discussed later by the TAB, whether you agree with these amendments. I asked you two amendments - obviously there are more, which also concerns limiting data request - one is the need for reimbursement and the other is the importance of requesting data within ten years. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to answer these two questions.
u2015-06-29-160	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Répássy Róbert is the secretary of state.
u2015-06-29-161	Congressman, you are asking the Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice whether you agree with the bill submitted by the Minister of Justice. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Curious question.]] I can answer your question with a definite yes. Thank you very much. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-162	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to the questions. Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence a question:. Will you take responsibility for the huge losses to the air force? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2015-06-29-163	Košice, Czech Republic, Kecskemét and Szolnok Minister, four failures and accidents in the air force in three months. This is so many events that it is no longer a series of unfortunate coincidences, but a painful symptom of serious system failures. The austerity of the last few years in the field of defence - we remember the withdrawal of HUF 250 billion, the freezing of rent - has reached the critical level that threatens the safe operation of military technology, and therefore the political responsibility for the five-year-old military defense management has been imposed. They fled from this responsibility, refused to give detailed information about the events at either a defence committee meeting or another forum. My questions are, what are you doing to stop this process? You're not going to wait for the circumstances to end up in the lives of pilots, are you? And when are you willing to take responsibility in front of a committee of inquiry? And I'm not talking about a committee of inquiry that's going to be set up in HM, and in two months' time, we'll be able to read in a report that we're either okay or we're all responsible, except for the defence political leadership. And by the way, you can try to lie in numbers here, and you can't lie to the Hungarian Army's staff, Minister. [[Csaba Hende: What did he say?]] They are fully aware of the circumstances and the reality of the day. I find it outrageous that you keep saying that you are most aware of the reality that the destruction of the last five years in the field of defence has led to what consequences, and you have unfortunately been a part of it. The fact that there was no major financial damage is due to the heroism of the pilots. I think what's more important than material things is that there are two pilots who are wondering if they can ever fly again and live a full life at all, Minister. The task of HM would be to at least ensure minimum conditions for proper operation [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and you said that since 2010, the air force's situation has improved significantly, and everything is fine. [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time.]] This shows, Minister, that you are not only incompetent but also unworthy of the Minister of Defence.
u2015-06-29-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2015-06-29-165	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Although you must have forgotten to ask this, I must inform you that our damaged pilots are well under the circumstances. Major Sándor Kádár is already recovering in his home, and Major László Horváth is being treated as carefully as possible in the Honvéd Hospital under the best conditions. It is also appropriate to wish both pilots a better life and to thank them here for their heroic actions and their doctors for their sacrificial healing work. Well, there hasn't been any serious malfunctions that forced us to land on Košice, no tragedy, thank God it didn't happen. On the other hand, since 2010, the number of hours flying has steadily increased, and the time that our pilots could spend practicing in simulators has steadily increased. You know that, Congresswoman, and I ask you to accuse me of lying, that, compared to 2009, Hungarian Gripen pilots can practice about twice as much today as in your last period of government. As regards inspections, I would like to inform you that aircraft accidents are currently being investigated in eight different procedures under the relevant legislation, partly home and partly in the Czech Republic. I not only support it myself, but I also expect these professional examinations to provide objective, precise answers to what happened to which machine exactly what happened and why. Last Friday, I set up a committee of inquiry at the Ministry of Defence and ordered a comprehensive investigation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a full assessment of the state of the Hungarian air force in the light of the accidents that have occurred. This investigation will take place until 31 July. I don't see much point in setting up a ninth committee of inquiry until the technical examination is completed. [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time.]] But of course, if Parliament decides to do so, the committee will be informed at any time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-166	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office a question: å Has the Tricky Szolnok Paper Factory swallowed nearly HUF 9 billion in public money? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-06-29-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is a right to ask when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán visits Szolnok why he does not deal with matters in which serious public money can be saved, because that is what it is, on the one hand, about strict public finances and, on the other hand, about devious harm to taxpayers. The main character of the case is Higi Papsoft Zrt., established in Szolnok Industrial Park. To sum up the story: the formation and creation of the factory itself dates back to 2004, when they received a HUF 12 billion MFB loan, a foreign currency loan with a discount rate, which was partly invested in the investment, and 85 percent of this factory was completed. However, it was still necessary to involve EUR 2.5 million, which could not be guaranteed by the previous owner, so a fairly capital-powered group of investors, identified by the name of Géza Terner, Endre Tóth, Oleg Stalnov, acquired the institution itself and the factory, and it seems that they did not work very well because the plant was not fully started. Meanwhile, the MFB loan was not repaid or even wound up in liquidation, in which the well-known Jenő Varga became the ultimate insolvencyist, who, by the way, was the Malév Zrt., Vectigalis Zrt., Zalasház, Pápai Meat... - we only list the areas where - in parentheses and quotes - he did. Barikad's weekly paper found out that there were problems in the winding-up procedure itself, because a group of companies or business circles acquired this company which could not have participated in this tender. Thus, it seems that 12 billion forints of credit will come to an end, because they only received it for 3.6 billion forints, so the deficit among them seems to be flowing from public funds. [[16.40]] So in view of all this, I ask the Minister whether you may feel that the skin is falling off your cheeks or that the earth will open under your feet in this case, that such a thing may occur in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Have you investigated the MFB in this transaction? Did the supervisory body know about the fraudulent processes involving HUF 8.5 billion in public money [[The president's ringing again.]] And what do you do about the case when the cuffs click? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-29-169	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Thank you for your question, although it would have been fair if the dates had been accurately stated by the Member, given that the loan of over 9 billion dollars granted by the Hungarian Development Bank to Higi Pap Soft Kft. on Szolnok, was the loan application that started in 2006 and was fully paid and closed in 2009. So between 2006 and 2009, the Hungarian Development Bank made a decision, so obviously the supervision at that time, i.e. exercising ownership rights, must bear the responsibility one at a time. In 2011, when the loan provided by the Hungarian Development Bank was not repaid by the beneficiary, the Hungarian Development Bank immediately cancelled this loan. After the termination of the loan, the government ordered a Kehi investigation, the Kehi investigation found that the Hungarian Development Bank made a serious mistake in preparing and making the decision between 2006 and 2009. He made a serious mistake when he basically gave the money without collateral, accepted assets and rights as collateral that basically didn't exist. For example, the line of machinery was not owned by the company, nor was it owned by the land, since the plot was the first place in the city of Szolnok county. Therefore, based on Kehi's investigation, the government filed a criminal complaint at the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office in 2013, where police investigations are currently under close prosecutor's supervision and prosecution. If you ask what magnitude of money was involved, which disappeared or made a wrong decision in the decisions of the Hungarian Development Bank before 2010, in my opinion hundreds of billions of forints worth of loans were placed at the Hungarian Development Bank between 2002 and 2010, which was not a prudent lending operation, they asked for adequate collateral, so the state's assets were reduced by that, and many loans were lost. Unfortunately, in the cases where a prosecutor's investigation was opened and the case was brought into court, the court dismissed the parties everywhere. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-170	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity and István Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Is there any chance of nature conservation in Győr?" It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-06-29-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I apologise for the fact that I had to... - that I do not want to keep the representatives of the government from all these nature conservation cases, I know that this is not a priority for the government, but I was very sad to hear the other day when I was in Győr that a forest of more than 30 hectares, called the Bishop's Forest, is planned for full end use by the local government in order to create a track for the soon-to-be- hosted kayak-kenu European Championship. This more than 30 hectares are practically covered by a Danube valley, surrounded by a gallery forest, both vegetation protected and highly protected plant species and numerous highly protected and protected species. Obviously, there would have been an alternative to this development, in a completely different area, it could have been accomplished, but the municipality felt it would be a good idea to bring this development to Bishop's Forest, which, in my opinion, should not take it personally, not because of your professional mistake, but because of the technical failure of the past 15 years in nature conservation, it did not become a local protected area or Natura 2000 area, because it would obviously make it easier to protect the area. The municipality would spend 1.4 billion forints on this, and we are obviously pleased that Győr has the opportunity to gain international fame and recognition by organising the European Youth Festival and organising this tournament, but the victim seems to be a little too big to be a local recreational destination, a land-running destination and a habitat for conservation purposes. After there is an alternative and there has been another option, I respectfully ask the leaders of the portfolio whether they see the possibility of pushing this development in the original direction by government intervention, by nature conservation step, and we will talk them out of this destruction of nature when negotiating with the municipality of Győr. I would expect your reply on this matter with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-29-172	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-06-29-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I would like to adjust his first sentence: the environment is a priority for the government, the coexistence of man and the environment, and its coexistence are a very important role in the government's intentions and activities. You cry wolf, but there's no wolf. You know the story that when the wolf does come, no one will believe you. In connection with the establishment of the kayak-kenu track in the Bishop's Forest in Győr, the preparatory planning is currently under way, during which the plan for the settlement of the town with the right of Győr County is being modified and a strategic environmental assessment is being prepared. The area concerned does not concern protected natural areas, Natura 2000 sites, but is classified as ecological corridors on the basis of the national spatial planning plan. According to the relevant law, no land intended for new installation in this zone may be designated except for a priority area and county area use category which does not endanger the natural and natural habitats of the ecological network and its links. A number of protected and highly protected species of animals and plants occur in the area, and in order to preserve them, the nature conservation authority and the Fertő-Hanság National Park Directorate are involved in the planning processes in accordance with the legal requirements. Ongoing planning and subsequent official procedures, ex ante environmental assessment, possible environmental impact assessment, water licensing, installation authorisations with the assistance of the nature conservation authority may be implemented, and the bodies concerned will act in the light of existing legal requirements. Thank you very much for your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-174	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, Péter Cseresnyés, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:, How does the programme "Modern Cities" support the development of Nagykanizsa and its region? It's an address. Mr Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2015-06-29-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Nagykanizsa is a city with a significant industrial and commercial history on the southwest border of the country. The people here have always been proud of their city, and they have faced significant challenges in recent years and decades. The biggest problem at present is unemployment. That is why it is important that Nagykanizsa became part of the program of modern cities. According to the agreement, in addition to the 150-acre industrial park, another 500-acre industrial park can be expected here. The unemployment rate here above the national average is due, inter alia, to the fact that there are no real estate available for industrial development purposes. However, Nagykanizsa has an economic programme that can guarantee that investments in the industrial park here will not stand empty. In the future, the locals can expect a two-track expansion of the M70 road from the south. The expansion of the M70 is expected to be completed by 2018. These development ideas also show why it is particularly important for Nagykanizsa to be part of the . Modern Cities programme. In addition, within the framework of this program, a multifunctional sports and event hall suitable for the reception of 3,000 people is built, and a 50-metre indoor swimming pool can be given to the city. However, developments did not start today. From 2010 to 14 HUF 15.6 billion of development funds arrived in the city, including the renovation of the Dorottya Hospital in Kanizsai from 4 billion HUF, which, thanks to this development, became not only one of the best hospitals in the county, but also one of the best hospitals in the whole country. Dear House, The development of Nagykanizsa's economy must not only create new jobs for the inhabitants of Nagykanizsa, but also for those living in settlements in the area and even beyond county boundaries. With the development, the main goal is to use Nagykanizsa's national economic development opportunities, favourable features, and to have a thriving industrial, commercial and cultural centre at the southwest gate of Hungary. That is why I am asking Minister, how he believes Nagykanizsa and his region will help the development of the programme of modern cities. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-29-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-29-177	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, Thanking Mayor and Congressman for their hospitality and invitation to Nagykanizsa, let me note that there is more than just good news. The initial situation is not easy, given that Nagykanizsa has suffered serious losses in the number of jobs in recent years. [[16.50]] There have been large industrial companies that have decommissioned their capacity there, so Nagykanizsa - although she has excellent logistics, geographical capabilities, has a well-prepared workforce, the current and former management has done a lot to improve the city - wants to help the government along the economic programme adopted by the city's representative body in order to address the losses suffered in recent years and decades, as regards job losses and labour market problems, together. In this spirit, the government appreciates it, and at its meeting on Wednesday, late afternoon, it will also discuss the economic development plan that we have received from the Mayor, and from you, Member, which is about jobs, industrial park development, the southern bypass, which really makes the city fit to create a job. The interest in Nagykanizsa. There hasn't been a major investor in the last three years who hasn't contacted the government or Nagykanizsa for the first time in order to compete as a location. There is no industrial area in which large industrial investment is possible, or is not bypassed, and there is no infrastructure. We are committed to building this together. We need to build a 500-hectare area, from which first the municipal ownership of the state territories will follow, and then the agency set up at the Hungarian National Asset Management will purchase those areas in Debrecen, Miskolc, Szolnok and here Nagykanizsa, where industrial development will be possible. We are doing the same with the southern bypass road, which we are preparing to develop, and we are going to start in this cycle, and we want to finish the M70, and the Prime Minister and the government think it is very important that we are able to further strengthen the character of the livable city for Nagykanizsa, which is why we are going to build the sports hall and the 50-metre race swimming pool together, I hope. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-178	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office what is he developing? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-06-29-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, they were the first to start thinking about making the operation of the state cheaper. Well, we can now say in 2015 that this remained on the level of thought. Then they set goals to slim down the boards of public companies, lower wages, order stops for car purchases, furniture and telephone purchases. In the meantime, today's news says that public procurement was issued for 6 billion HUF for the purchase of new cars. Compared to this, we now have an innumerable State Secretary, Deputy State Secretary in Hungary, and we are now about 220, which costs Hungarian taxpayers 190 million forints per month and 2.2 billion forints per year for countless state leaders. Compared to this, we have just read in the news that 19 new development commissioners, county commissioners, have been appointed by Minister, and the first news has been that they will not receive an allowance for this, and in the days, they have tabled an amending legislation that will provide a secretary of state with a salary for these people. I would like to ask Minister how these people have been chosen, because if we look at the statistics in Parliament, we cannot say about the majority of these people that they are heroes of the work or they are embodying the hardworking little man. But they don't beat the category of a hardworking big man either. Since we can talk here about the fact that 12 people are under the worst 110 on the basis of parliamentary statistics, but let me list 6-7 people who are in the last third: László B. Nagy, Gábor Riz, dr. István Tiba, Mihály Balla, Ferenc Hirt, Gábor Varga and Gyula Vantara. I would like to ask Minister, on the basis of speeches, but they do not sign up in a single motion, so how do they represent their own district if they do not do their job here in Parliament. I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2015-06-29-180	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-29-181	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I appreciate your work, but believe me, there are not only posters and mouthpieces, but also some of them, and for some reason in the Fidesz faction, there are most of them who have been brought into Parliament by their individual representatives, not on a list, for which there is a reason. And even if you don't appreciate my fellow Members or me very much, at least honor the votes of the people who voted for us and see us as Members of Parliament worthy of their representation for many times now. In the list you have listed, there are several who have won the voter's trust in many cycles. Then when you are elected 4 or 5 times individually, then I accept criticism of this type of work, because for me, the measure of the parliamentary work is how often you are elected individually. As far as state leaders are concerned, my dear Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the V4 countries with similar economic performances with Hungary, there are similar amounts of state leaders and much more paid state leaders, including the salaries of prime ministers and the salaries of State Secretarys-General and Deputy State Secretarys. In a few hours, the Parliament will adopt the law in which it adopts Deputy State Secretary-General allowances, partly because I really believe that there is room and opportunity to narrow down, but at the same time I think that the particularly important development policy work must also be carried out. That is why I thought not to ask state bureaucrats to do this work, but to ask 19 Members of my elected parliamentary fellow Members to try to coordinate the development programmes and development programmes of county-owned cities in the county, which is a question of a hundred billion, a thousand billion. They will still have to work more for the same amount of money, since they will not receive any additional benefits for the work we have asked them to do. I would also like to tell you what I personally think about state leaders. The government offices were taken over by the termination of the executive mandate of 1,700 out of 3,400 leaders when integration took place. I suggest you consider how this was during your government's time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]]
u2015-06-29-182	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of State Károly Kontra, who replaced the Minister of the Interior, with the title "Besides the Southern Border Lock." Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2015-06-29-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At present, the Debrecen refugee camp for 830 people has a double of about 1,600 migrants. Due to the increase in the number of people, capacity expansion is needed, Róbert Rácz was recently announced by a government commissioner from Hajdú-Bihar. It is worth knowing that expanding and making the reception centre more comfortable will cost roughly HUF 150 million. This is entirely contrary to the Prime Minister's words, who recently found that during his visit to Debrecen, the refugee camp must be closed and not expanded. This proves that what you are saying is really not what you should look at, but what you are doing. Because speech and action are also in complete contradiction with each other. Dear Secretary of State, You know that the fence at the southern border does not solve the problem, because without border guards, the border lock is useless. In addition, crowded refugee camps remain in populated areas and are open, so local residents suffer from the behavior, disorderly conduct, and crimes of campers. It should be noted here that it is not true what you claim that there is no public complaint against immigrants. Right now, life is denying your words about this, because in the refugee camp in Debrecen there has been a serious incident in the last few hours, and there are almost riots. First, the residents began to rumble between the walls of the camp, and then, entering the street, they attacked cars with sticks, crashed cars, and set fires. The workers had to be rescued from the refugee camp. There's a huge police alert around the camp. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of what has happened today, beyond the border barrier, what other measures are planned for tens of thousands of aliens who are staying here and who are to be expelled from Austria and Germany and who will arrive later in our country? Is the creation of an independent border guard still not within the government's plans? And I'm going to ask you again the very current question of when you intend to declare the reception centre in Debrecen closed. On behalf of the Debrecen, we demand that the camp be shut down immediately. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-29-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The infringement you mentioned, which took place this afternoon in the open camp of the detention centre in Debrecen, is proof of the serious problem of the residence of illegal migrants in Hungary. That's one conclusion. The second is that the police have removed this infringement by acting decisively and by doing so in the interest of law-abiding citizens. [[17.00]] But it is clear that this violation, which resulted from the conflicts between two migrants of different nationality and two different cultures and has indeed spread to larger groups, in the process of bringing this conflict to an end, has acted decisively against lawbreakers and for the benefit of law-abiding citizens. Honourable Congressman, He quoted or criticized the Prime Minister's statement regarding his visit to Debrecen, saying that there was a contradiction between the Prime Minister's words and the head of the camp and the statement of the Governor of Hajdú-Bihar County. There is no contradiction, honourable Member, because what the Prime Minister said that the refugee camp must be closed and not enlarged is appropriate; that is what we want to do, that is what we want to do. On the other hand, the fact that so many people, in place of 830, had to be placed there was an emergency situation, since these illegal immigrants had to be placed somewhere, and this decision was made to resolve this issue. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But once again, I would like to say that our aim is to create more stringent legislation, which is why we have tabled a proposal to amend the migration laws. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] which Parliament will discuss on Friday. I would ask you to support this proposal if you are serious about what you are saying. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The time frame is just about the next question. Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government speed up migration in health care? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Nándor Gúr.]]
u2015-06-29-187	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, July 1st, Semmelweis Day has not been a holiday for many years, but rather a occasion of despair and indignation. Tens of thousands of healthcare workers have been waiting and waiting for the government to come up with concrete plans. The promises made after the previous demonstrations, the demands of the demonstrators, have not yet been fully fulfilled, and the long-promised career model in the sector is in vain. Therefore, on the day of Hungarian health care, the workers must again indicate their legitimate salary. Not surprisingly, according to the news, only 57 percent of the workers can expect a salary increase. Their wages are still far below the value of the work done, but the main question is: what about the others? What is the purpose of creating additional wage tension? Is this your way of speeding up the emigration of specific areas? It is also a legitimate question of whether it is really necessary to deal with the black clothing of nurses, when patients' recovery is threatened not by the black colour, but by unblessed hospital conditions. The mental and mental condition of the patients is much worse when the dying person is placed in the same room as the patients who still have a chance of recovery, when there is no money to separate the beds with curtains, when there is only one nurse lying in forty, when the hospital corridor and the disgusting bathroom tell us that there is only one way to die. This and the careers of health workers should be addressed. When will you become a health career model? We'd like to hear some kind of deadline. Until March, they promised, but we can't see any of it. Will there be a basic wage increase for all the professionals? Please state exact dates and amounts. What can employees in primary and outpatient care expect? A fraction of the amount required is intended for wage development only [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You always have money for Paks II, Olympics, stadiums, health care, education, less and less.
u2015-06-29-188	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-29-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last five years, we have also tried to spend as much money on the health pay situation and on the equipment of health institutions as we could on the performance of the economy. I think if you're looking at infrastructure development, Congressman, I don't think you can say another period, another era of governance when there was HUF 500 billion worth of development in health care. If you can say something like that from the 2000s, the '90s, then tell me that if you can make a development equivalent to HUF 500 billion today at any time in health care. And if you can't say such an era - I don't think you can, even if we return to this question next week - then admit that it is of greater value [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] development has never been in the field of health! But if you can say another four years, do it, and then we'll admit that there was a better performance than that. As far as health care workers are concerned, you know that 95 thousand health workers have been able to get an extra HUF 76 billion from the 1st of July this year, and there is progress in a few days, although not all 95 thousand workers, but 43,000 employees and health professionals are getting paid, and this is covered in next year's budget. This includes both on-call nurses and doctors; next year's budget includes around HUF 12.8 billion to raise their wages. In addition, you know that we are trying to increase the incomes of young doctors with residency support programmes and specialist scholarships; 2500 residents have already used it, so they must have stayed here and are working in Hungary, among other things, as a result of this program. As for the numbers of emigration, you know that this process has turned around, fortunately. In 2011-12, he turned to doctors. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] migration abroad, and in 13-14 the nurses; since then, fewer and fewer people have been going abroad. That's what we'd like to do. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes this item. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act X of 2006 on cooperatives and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. T/5126 submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry and Imre Vas fideszes The submission with serial numbers and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a total of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-29-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/5126 amending Act X of 2006 on cooperatives. Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the Economic Committee's one-point amendment proposal, which is essentially aimed at ensuring consistency with the provisions of European Union law. Our Commission supported the intention to amend by 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions. This bill was submitted to Parliament in order to ensure the operational coverage of the school cooperatives and thus to ensure the safe payment of the wages of the members of the school cooperatives. The bill concerns a number of constitutional principles. The government considers it important that Hungary strives to create the conditions for every able-bodied person who wants to work to work, paying particular attention to improving the employment opportunities of young workers. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 24 votes to six, with four abstentions. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the authors if they want to speak, or if they want to speak at the end. [[Lajos Kósa: At the end.]] Thank you, Congressman Kósa. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[András Tállai: No.]] No. Thank you. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP. [[17.10]]
u2015-06-29-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The MSZP, as we have already indicated in the general debate, will not support this proposal, nor will it support it because nothing else has happened than an explanation from the government and, in the final words, my fellow Member Kósa could not respond to what was said in the debate. What are we up against here? We see that there were two proposals, and the only difference between the two proposals is that one of them was submitted by Lajos Kósa alone, and there was another proposal, which was withdrawn earlier, where the proposal was submitted together with Kristóf Szatmáry's fellow Member. In the first one, we could see some kind of benchmark, but in the second one, we can clearly and cannot conclude what the minimum wage for students would be, which was also referred to in the debate, and on what basis it should be calculated. That is why we cannot and cannot support this screening fund accordingly. We can see market conditions, of course. What we see is that if there is a quasi-public price here, then a much more expensive, 15 percent expected cost is imposed on the 10-12 percent rental fee on the market, making the employment of the members of the student associations quasi-fixed. In addition to the fact that we are used to all kinds of market distortions and measures which, in general, are very difficult to compare with the market economy, but very easily with a different economy, in addition to what was said in the debate - I did not get any reaction to that - there seems to be another market that you would like to touch. Unfortunately, we have more experience than we have left with illusions that it will once again be possible for friends close to you to get this market, who have already put their hands on several other markets, or that will work in a similar way. That's what we're afraid of. Not least, we believe that the definition of something is again referred to in the regulation, even if Parliamentary Secretary Péter Benő Banai said here that any provision of minimum wage or minimum pension and any other reference basis will be laid down in regulations. However, we believe that, in this respect, extending this circle means removing something from Parliament's jurisdiction, and therefore we are not looking at the structure of the law in good faith. We do not support it either because the current proposal imposes additional burdens on entrepreneurs who use student work. And here with Roland Megyi, let me argue a little bit. That doesn't guarantee the security of wage payments at any level, it's not a guarantee. This is a guarantee for the quantity, a guarantee that you will find out how much you have to pay. Then whether you pay for this or not, you don't bring regulators to that, that remains in the current order: either you pay them or you don't. We believe that, in this respect, it would be not the setting of a minimum level of costs, but more effective enforcement of the rules that could lead to young people's work being paid. I think in everything else that helps work culture, socialization and everything else in student work, we agree. We are thinking that this will be an attempt by means of an incompetent device, unless the goal is different, the goal is not to rip off a certain market segment for newer fidesz buddies and friends. We believe that the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs, or even the EU Guarantee Programme for the First Job, would provide young people with sufficient opportunities to obtain the socialisation of work, the work experience and, last but not least, the wages they want. This, on the other hand, is a market-distorting, price-setting and official-price measure that the Socialist Party will not support. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-29-194	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-06-29-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was strange in itself, too, when there were laws running side by side on school cooperative issues, and not under a skyman, and not within the framework of a draft law, all these things and issues to which my fellow Member, Mr Mengyi Roland, referred, whether in terms of the security of wages or in order to maintain the operating costs of school cooperatives. In one case, as my fellow Member said, there was a specific framework of 15 per cent for operating costs presented by my fellow Member Kósa as a financing background. In the other case, the same intention is hidden, practically excluded from Parliament's walls, so Parliament's decision-making competence is lost. Although the basic question is this: is it really about what you are talking about between Parliament's walls or something else, let us say, that there are certain interest groups that you want to satisfy, and there are others that you want to make impossible. We know this because of your political work, whether we look at the tobacco market or we focus on gambling. I'm afraid it's gonna be this field that's gonna come out of this story. Here's the thing. What my fellow Member has already drawn attention to, I would also like to confirm here: in the labour market, the employment agency and agency bodies that exist and work are doing their work with a profit of between 8 and 12 percent; here there is a significantly larger background opportunity with an operating cost of 15 per cent. I do not think that this does not distort, I do not think that this does not mean a fixed career; I do not think that this is the right way in this sense. I was able to support, for my part and I think, the Socialist Party's side, when we made the difference between passive and active student status within the framework of these laws, which was about all the support that students with active student rights would receive, including with passive student rights, in relation to the delay of the year and others, in order to ensure their livelihood and continue their studies. In addition, I must immediately add that what is being formulated here for the financing of operational costs and for the sake of the security of payment of wages, in a very simple way, is a lukewarm piece of crap, and that, moreover, the fact that it is being taken out of Parliament's rope leads to the fact that the possibility of making decisions on these issues is being placed within the framework of government decisions is not considered fair and fair. Parliament should decide on these issues, not put these decisions on a government level, because this implies that you want to act on these matters not for the sake of the people, but for the sake of your friends. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-29-196	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Kósa, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the mark of Lajos Kósa:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Lajos Kósa. [[17.20]]
u2015-06-29-197	Mr. President. Dear House, 130-150 thousand day-school students work every year under student cooperative frameworks. This is a real Hungarian solution, there is no such institutional system in any other country of the European Union, it has been established since the mid-eighties, and it is a very good service to help solve a number of important problems. First of all, more than half of the day-school students go to the student associations and work there safely. This is useful because it helps him to finance his studies in part, and partly on his own expense, even if he can say so - I myself have met a lot of cooperative students who could have allowed themselves to ask their parents for money, but they said that no, they would like to finance the costs of the summer vacation with the money they have earned. It provides them with maintenance, so-called work socialization, as it helps them to learn what it is like to have a boss, to carry out the boss's instructions even if he doesn't like it, to work with colleagues. They have a number of very important experiences. Not to mention that it is also a very common phenomenon, about 20 percent of students are located in a workplace that they had previously come into contact with as a student in a student's cooperative. So it is obvious that this institution is working very well, both from the point of view of earning money and from the point of view of socialization at work. However, there are quite a few anomalies that need to be combated in this area, as it is clear that the government does not want to pay preference, for example, in the case of the payment of certain social security costs to student associations, because the member of the student cooperative, as a full-time student, has a social security relationship and does not want to be paid by the government after two relationships, so it is clear that he is giving preference, so indeed, on the labour market - not on the rental market, so the MSZP knows this wrong, or often mixes things up, in this case it does not know exactly what the difference between the temporary employment agency and the student associations is; but it is not wrong, it is fortunate that the country is not governed by them, because if so much is mixed up, it can really cause serious problems. But if the opposition confuses student associations with temporary workers, there is no such problem, at most it is not quite clear what they are talking about. On the other hand, you know that temporary agency work is also preferred by this government as a special Hungarian employment relationship, because we also wanted to support atypical employment relationships that increase the flexibility of the labour market. This is very important, however, for companies that can work within an organised framework, but often have certain seasonal or campaign-like activities, then they can achieve more employment through temporary employment, which is good for everyone. Indeed, I myself was previously involved in the legislative amendment initiative, which, by the way, gave temporary workers certain opportunities. By the way, we have also achieved there that the minimum wage applies to temporary agency work, only after this is a business relationship, so it can be more complex to regulate. But I must admit, dear House, dear fellow Members, that I could not have guessed how a party claiming to be left-wing, the MSZP, would be able to squeeze and twist arguments until, by the way, a bill providing minimum wage for students was ultimately supported. But it worked, so in this sense the task was solved by the MSZP, although it had to be a little mixed up, but their souls were on it. It is obvious that the model we have worked with, which, I add, is also a rare turn of events - HÖOK's national leadership stood there because they felt that we wanted to avoid competition in the market from forcing student associations to make a commitment in which they cannot even pay the minimum wage to the members of the cooperative for the work that they would otherwise do for a minimum wage in the legal relationship under the Labour Code. So we wanted the student associations to be able to secure the minimum wage, by the way. And indeed, there is a formula for this, because it is obvious that student associations have an operating cost, and I confess honestly, but look at it, the student associations - there are two - we asked both of them how much operating costs they can accept, and this is 15 percent. It's a compromise. So, in the original version of the bill I submitted, this formula would have been included that, indeed, this guarantees that the members of the student cooperative would have to pay the minimum wage. I would add that on the basis of the negotiations, NGM, the Ministry of National Economy, has indicated that it is more appropriate that, while we are already setting the minimum wage, and we want to extend this to the employment sector of student cooperatives, we apply the legal formula that is also applicable at the minimum wage, which, as we know, is not regulated by law, but by a government decree. It is precisely because the Hungarian legislative law and the Hungarian legislative order instruct the legislation in mathematical formulas to regulate at regulation level, because otherwise, this was previously referred to by the Supreme Court of Justice, the application of the law or the Constitutional Court, that if this is what the legislation wants, it refers to the level of government, and this should be regulated by a government decree. That is simply the case when 15 percent is mentioned by the kind socialists. And their soul on it, and then explain to the students, based on the same complicated arguments, why the socialists did not support the minimum wage for the students' co-operative members, by the way. Just be careful, fellow socialists, because students may be less polite and may not take into account the mandatory forms of civility and respect that may be appropriate in a parliamentary debate. So it's very easy for you to get what is real, that, dear Socialists, you're talking about buddies when your socialist deputy mayor in Szombathely, by the way, with our former fellow Member - God rest his soul - Minister Kiss has arranged for the socialist stretching of student associations to fund the Mozaik Clubs and the Young Left. Let's find out. And by the way, it was deeply annoying for the students, because they said that if they were already getting a job with their own jobs to earn money, then they shouldn't have to finance the socialist left-wing youth club life. It just couldn't be, wasn't it, the condition, the Coca Cola contract, the others? And the students know that, so don't let my fellow Member Nándor Gúr get it if he does, so that Mr Gúr doesn't tell us about the market he stole from his friends, because you stole it first, you introduced it. By the way, our construction applies to everyone, what they say is absolutely impossible, because otherwise, the commitment price will decide who will get a job, if any, not the previous system in which you are under the leadership of Minister Péter Kiss, I say, and under the leadership of the Socialist Deputy Mayor of Szombathely, this system was organized at the time. Because that's how it worked, fellow Members, but you know it. Then ask the Young Left how the Mosaic Clubs were financed at the time, in the happy times. So, obviously, the socialists are still on their own right now, of course. It was also known who the socialist activists in each county were, Mr Németh, in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, who organized this network. We don't have a network like that, and we won't have one. We want young people to get a job, otherwise they can work. No one's trying to steal the student associations. Otherwise, we can't do that, because there are plenty of student associations, where, by the way, membership is created by entering as a member, and the fact is that it is possible to enter into a student relationship, so what you claim is in itself impossible. However, allow me. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let me just say, I am very happy that such an opportunity is open to students, available. I ask the government to adopt and publish the government decree as soon as possible, and students will receive the minimum wage for students, even if the socialists will not support it, because they do not agree that students will receive minimum wage after work. [[The president's ringing again.]] , as otherwise any other employee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2015-06-29-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Kósa. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and in this context the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. T/4891. The submission with serial numbers and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The committee's rapporteur, László Salacz, has 15 minutes to do so. You have the floor, Congressman Salacz.
u2015-06-29-199	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee has negotiated T/4891. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement Law and, in this context, a bill amending certain laws, and the committee submitted 29 amendments and summary reports, together with six sexes and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, all the amendments made by the Judicial Committee, with the exception of one, as well as the clarification provisions of the Legislative Committee relating to the proposed motion. The exception is point 9 of the amendment closing the in-depth debate, which, for the officials of the newly established executive faculty, would have provided for the legal examination as a condition for eligibility. If this provision had been adopted, it would have been possible for a narrow circle to apply to the body which would have raised constitutional concerns and therefore the proposal was rejected by both the government and the Legislative Committee. I would also like to highlight the section on the date of the election of the executive faculty from the proposed amendment that has been adopted. On the basis of a proposal from the Judicial Committee to close a detailed debate, the Kari Presidency, which will be held on 1 September 2015, shall be elected by 30 September 2015. However, in the context of this amendment, it is also appropriate to provide for the basis for the conduct of elections in the absence of the organisational and operational rules. Therefore, the amending proposal states that the first presidency of the faculty should be elected on the basis of the provisional electoral rules approved by the Minister. An important exclusion rule for the election of faculty officials is that the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. Act XL of 2015 amending Act No. Law established a rule limiting the choice of chamber officials in the Vht. The Vht. as amended 252. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6, officials may be re-elected only once. The transitional rule ensured that the modified Vht. when applying the amendment, account shall also be taken of the position before the entry into force of the amendment. The proposed transitional rule would ensure that the position of Chamber Presidency should also be taken into account in the election of the presidency of the faculty on 1 September 2015 as a condition limiting re-election. However, it would be seriously unfair for members of the Presidency elected after the entry into force of 18 May 2015 to take into account their position for a few months during the Kari presidential elections, and therefore, in the establishment of the transitional rule, this position should also be excluded from the electoral limits in view of this circumstance. In the light of these clarifications, please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-200	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Not now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-06-29-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us is an important step, but it will show how much it will be worth in the final accounts. We want the system of implementation to work well, operate transparently and guarantee rights to everyone in an appropriate way. It is not just about protecting debtors; it is also about protecting the rights of citizens seeking satisfaction based on, say, a citizen's decision, who seek satisfaction in a way that suits the needs of the citizen, but it is not good that the enforcer stands in the way of the demand and often does not facilitate it, but blocks it. The proposal proposes a hybrid system, which should be seen with small sceptical signs, since we believe in the state system. We believe that instead of a profit-oriented system at present, we need a functioning system in which the state implements the implementation in the way that the state's task arises in the laws, and as the courts or even the prosecutor's office carries out and carries out state tasks. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal because it contains restrictions that are certainly progressing compared to the current system. If I may say so, we will give you a chance to see if anything changes with this system. In our opinion, it will not be as much as the citizens expect, but the fact that, let's say, they turn the Chamber into an arm and an executive arm is a difference in name, but what this will do on the altar of operation and it will come out later. We have always supported, always urged, that we expect legal qualifications from executives. In the material, it is included in the proposal that it will be seven years for executives to acquire this degree, legal qualifications, two years for enrollment and five years for completion. We believe that this should be enough, especially if someone is already enrolling in legal training in time and not leaving it for the last moment, and the fact that they have to prove that they go to law school is okay in itself, although this deadline has been pushed out for the deputy executives, this alone - although we have listened to the government's arguments - we have not always been able to support it. But it must also be acknowledged, obviously, if we force everyone to study suddenly from September, then it may indeed cause some disruption. I think that if we had taken these measures in time, then we would not have talked about sending everyone here to legal training, and this also suggests that the percentage of lawyers at present is very low not only for executives, but also for deputy executives, which is in itself an admission that, unfortunately, things have been going in a very bad direction. I would also like to point out that what we would also have made more stringent is that, although the proposal introduces that executive posts should be applied in theory after seven years... - I say that in theory, because the person who does not commit a particular offence will be automatic, and we believe that, let's say, after the first seven years, a real evaluation should follow the work of the executive and that a real screening should determine whether we are counting on his enforcement activity any longer. [[17.40]] Of course, if we had stayed with your preferred system, because Jobbik, as I said, would have promoted the state system. But if this proposal had to be decided at the moment, it would have been better to have a real review after seven years. This is all the more the case, because it is not the case here, and it was also said at the committee meeting that we would make poor executives runaway under a very strict procedure, but we believe that they must meet the social expectations that all people and the state have put in them. If there's a better man who can do this job, then he needs to be given the opportunity. If someone, whether or not, has committed major abuses, but is not the most suitable for that position, then we will certainly make it replaceable. The fact that he couldn't do anything else, he didn't even have to get a legal degree, and he had to go back to the work he did before he became an enforcer, that's no longer our problem. In any case, we want to promote the proper functioning of the implementation. In the end, I would also like to say that, on the part of the government, the Chamber's due diligence has begun, and there have been some results of this, at least the government has set it up. By the way, we have a report, and I know that, of course, we should wait for the number of indictments, the number of court convictions, the number of crimes - or we should trust that there is a crime and not an offence - to be found. Of course, we could say that the government has no influence on the functioning of the courts, of course, but with a good report and a good job as a prosecutor, I think that would not be too much of a problem. However, we have missed it, and I would also like to stress that the screening of the individual executives, if you will, has not yet been carried out. They promised, and perhaps a government decree was issued on this, and I know that it was born, but I do not know where the process of this is going, that they will certainly also review the activities of individual executives. We really need this. When we raised these issues, we did not receive reassuring, satisfying answers. I don't see it. I don't have any information that this is actually happening. However, if the government has already been given the opportunity to amend the law and the government has created its decree, then this should be implemented, especially by trying to get into the system now, and by trying to leave the enforcement of the court more competent. In summation and not going into more detail, we can support this proposal. But we have reservations. We are also waiting for the Minister of Justice to present in the autumn the proposal he promised that further corrections would be included in the law. On the basis of the better principle that if we move a little further than the current chaotic conditions, we support the proposal, we also accept this, but we are not satisfied yet, and we will monitor these processes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-29-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2015-06-29-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Tomorrow, we will vote in favour of the bill, but I continue to miss that there is no comprehensive new codification of the implementing law. I also said in the general debate that the real solution would be to start redoing the fourth procedural law as soon as possible in parallel with the three new procedural laws. If you just look at the rules of procedure, the current Vht. is not really fit to use the private institution of tomorrow's likely adoption within the enforcement law. Therefore, a comprehensive revision would be necessary from a procedural point of view. But as far as the enforcement system itself is concerned, I can continue to say what I was able to say in the summer of 2013 when our fellow Member Tarnai came up with an amendment to the law that the whole implementation system of 94 should be planned. You can't stop halfway, this hybrid solution will only cause problems in the long run. In the general debate, I said that you cannot really see where the authority, the office, the Ministry's sovereignty is, where the quasi-public authority is, will cause very serious disturbances in the longer term, where the Constitutional Court may otherwise intervene. I can only repeat that things need to be corrected, that the enforcement system should be nationalised. It was quite simply an extreme solution, obviously in the spirit of the age, in 94, to entrust one of the most basic public functions, i.e. the execution of judgments issued under the title of the Republic, to private contractors, and then the supervision of these private entrepreneurs to a private or semi-private organisation, a public body. As early as model 94 carried the risk of excessive abuse. It carried with it the tragedies that, by the way, culminated in the foreign exchange credit crisis, where executives were messing with families trapped in debt, otherwise working with various half-criminal groups. The system, which was created in 94 according to the neoliberal wave at that time, already carried this risk. I can continue to repeat that, as the ruling is a state monopoly, as the judgment is declared by the court on behalf of the Republic, from then on enforcement is not a private interest. There's no place for a private contractor. This is only because the current system, even if a small step in the right direction is taken in the legislative amendment, disproportionately increases the costs of citizens seeking the truth in implementation. One thing is that when you sue for your money, you have to pay a levy at the beginning of the procedure, but here you are asked for a cost advance - otherwise without the right-seeking citizen having a certain chance of actually finding satisfaction for his needs for implementation, in many cases there is no such thing - that he simply cannot cover. The 20-year-old implementation system helps the rich, helps the rich to get the truth, and the poorer people are simply put at a disadvantage in the search for justice by the two-thirds majority of the then ballib. That's what I'm talking about. This social injustice and the fact that private entrepreneurs are entrusted with the implementation of state judgments, these two factors are paired up, which is why this is a step in the right direction, but a small step. I would still like to ask the Government to bring forward a new enforcement law to this House as soon as possible, which will otherwise be adapted to the procedural experience of the last 20-21-22 years, to incorporate the various obligations arising from the private institution and finally to make it a state task to implement state decisions again. In our view, this institution should mostly be within the system of justice. I would also like to mention that this was still the case in the first parliamentary term. The enforcement system was submished under the courts. I see no reason why you had to touch this system in 94. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-204	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Congressman György Rubovszky, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-06-29-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I agree with many things in the contributions made before me, but not all of them. I admit that Amendment 94, although today's government has no responsibility for this, was a mistake. It was a mistake, and time proved how unsuccessful it was, and total privateisation did not result. For years there has been experimentation on the way to somehow limit this system a little bit. Based on the principle of gradualness, I think it's step three. Firstly, as Mr Schiffer said, my fellow Member Richard Tarnai has tabled a legislative amendment. [[17.50]] I would like to remind this House that the Justice Committee has also had an independent motion, which has tried to prevent a misguided election, with little success. But now the government is finally determined to take a step that, if it doesn't solve the issue permanently, but I think it helps a lot with the tension. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind this House that when Minister László Trócsányi spoke about the future in his exposé, he envisaged that implementation costs would be limited even in the autumn of this year, and there will be a new law on procedural issues, or at least an amendment, in the course of this year. Dear House, I welcome the amendment, the essence of which is, in fact, an increased government control over the executive faculty. I would like to point out that the Registrar is appointed by the Minister of Justice, but there are very strict conditions governing who he can appoint and, in fact, the possibility of all government interventions takes account of democracy. Unfortunately, this arm deserved to be under such enhanced control. I very much hope that many problems for the future will be resolved, and these issues will move in the right direction. On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I say that my group will vote in favour of the bill, and I ask the rest of the House to do so. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now asking the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Mariann the Water East says yes. You have ten minutes.
u2015-06-29-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, T/4891. The main objective of this bill is to reform the self-management organisational model, which was set up in 1994, which is not yet sufficiently effective in dealing with executives who are not acting in accordance with professional rules. The government takes the view that a temporary solution between purely state and purely private enforcement may be appropriate to remedy systemic errors. Therefore, the proposal leaves the performance of interest representation tasks in the hands of executive membership. However, it entrusts the administrative tasks related to the implementing organisation, which are public tasks, to the department of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice, which is under the direction of a leader appointed by the Minister of Justice. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the public tasks set out in the implementing legislation will continue to be carried out by a legal entity consisting of executives and deputy executives, the faculty, but the organisational structure of this legal entity will be significantly modified by the proposal compared to the existing legislation on the Hungarian Court Executive Chamber. On the basis of the proposal, the performance of public tasks related to implementation will be subject to direct public supervision by providing them through the department of the faculty whose head is appointed by the Minister of Justice. The proposal also ensures that the chamber's assets, which have been paid in advance by the applicant for enforcement and ultimately borne by the debtors, will continue to be used in order to carry out public tasks related to implementation. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the Chamber's assets will be transferred to the faculty, which will be held within the limits of the law by the head of the department appointed by the Minister and the department itself. It is worth highlighting the provisions of the bill that significantly alter the conditions for the operation as an executive, in particular the rule that all independent judicial executives and independent deputy judicial executives should have a degree in law in order to ensure that the executive faculty is able to carry out its tasks in an increasingly complex legal regulatory environment. A further substantial innovation in the proposal is that the appointment of an executive is not for an indefinite period but for seven years in the future. This amendment will encourage the executioner to operate in a professional and lawful manner by establishing the continuity of the service automatically, without a tender, by the Minister for Justice, if only two times during the operation he has been subjected to a lesser disciplinary penalty. In order to create conditions for more transparent enforcement, the proposal standardises the rules on the framework for implementing activities. The essential elements of this are that, in the future, the executive may carry out enforcement activities only as a member of an executive agency and that the executive agency may only be executive members. It is important to point out that, apart from implementing activities, the firm cannot engage in business-like economic activities. The proposal also amends the rules on disciplinary liability and the procedure to be followed in the event of substitution. Several amendments were tabled to the bill. The government is committed to the effective renewal of the Presidency, the governing body representing executives. He therefore supported the motion to extend the presidency of the faculty on 1 September 2015 until 30 September 2015. The government did not support proposals by Members to set up an organisational order other than those contained in the bill and to leave the new legal institutions of the proposal, nor those which are contrary to the essential elements of the concept adopted by the government. It is the government's duty to carry out the renewal of the implementation system in such a way that it does not temporarily jeopardise the functioning of the system. We therefore support the amendments made by the Judicial Committee which set realistic deadlines for the transition obligations. We therefore also support the proposal for an amendment on the basis of which the deputy executives have to start carrying out the legal university later than the executives in order not to disrupt the functioning of the executive agencies if neither the executive nor the deputy executive have a legal degree. The amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee would strengthen the conditions for the appointment of the Head of the Administration of the Faculty and complement the rules on the relationship of the Head of the Office. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee would make it clear that the provisions of the Labour Code should apply to this relationship with the derogations in law. These Commission amendments are all in line with government efforts, so we thanked the additions and support them together with technical improvements. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you to support this bill with your vote. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-208	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mariann Water East. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We now have the debate on the Commission's reports on the prevention of hidden party funding and the protection of trust in the institutions of the European Union. [[18.00]] H/5139 submitted by representatives of Gergely Gulyás, Lajos Kósa, Bence Tuzson, István Németh Szilárd Fidesz. The submission with serial numbers and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the authors if they'd like to speak now. [[Lajos Kósa: At the end.]] At the end. Thank you, Congressman Kósa. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the government representative if he wants to speak. [[Dr. Water East Mariann: At the end.]] In the end, yes. Thank you. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will inform the Secretary of State that she will have the opportunity before the debate is over. Or now? [[Dr. Water East Mariann: Now, one minute.]] Go ahead, Madam Secretary.
u2015-06-29-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government 2015. CHAPTER VI On 24th, H/5139 discussed. Proposal for a government position on the proposed amendments to the Decision. Having examined the provisions of the resolution proposal, the tasks assigned to the government were declared enforceable by the Parliament in its decision. The amendments to the proposal for a decision are not supported by the Government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-29-210	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mariann Water East. So we now have the Members' speeches in the time frame on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-29-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We tabled an amendment to this law, and I see that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP did not understand it. I would like to read again what our amendment would have been about. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The National Assembly invites the Government to examine the political activities of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance between 2010 and 15 in order to explore whether, as a result of the reorganization and redistribution of the state, Trafikmuty, the savings cooperative sector and other economic areas, the successful players in economic life supported it in a way contrary to the prohibition of conflict of interest rules on the financing of political parties. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The second point, the following point is the following:, investigate whether the political activities of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association have been supported by persons within the circle of the friends of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, in particular Lőrinc Mészáros, Lajos Simicska, István Garancsi, and others in a manner contrary to the prohibition of conflict of interest rules for the financing of political parties. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Naturally, our initiative was swept off at the committee meeting, and it was not supported, so the Hungarian Socialist Party will vote against this amendment. There's one more thing I'd like to bring up in the last year. Last summer I asked a question, and I said a sentence to my question that thousands of billions of dollars were stolen under the Fidesz-KDNP administration. Minister János Lázár replied from the benches that it was estimated. You can get it back from the record, I even asked you a written question afterwards. I think that if such sentences had been said a year ago in the summer - since the mouth of János Lázár has said several of these since last week, since it was discovered that laws were being written for a certain order, he said - this amendment should have been considered and supported, because there is much to consider in the Fidesz-KDNP house. So we're going to vote no, and we're not surprised that the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP didn't dare to take this on board. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-29-212	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Leader of the Group, LMP.
u2015-06-29-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have also said in the general debate that we understand the original problem itself, and we even agree with the suggestion. It is indeed wrong for the European Commission to enter into a contractual relationship with the company of the leading party politician in any Member State. This is about the end of our agreement. So I do not wish to be silent, as opposed to my Socialist fellow Member, that the problem is that the European Commission does not apply to itself rules of conflict of interest which, in any case, we rightly expect from our own governments. However, I do not understand how the issue of party financing comes here, for example, and you are raising the news of DK, and the Prime Minister stands up to this at the end of May, on the same wonderful day when it turns out that the Gyurcsány company is otherwise being transported with a government delegation in the hope of larger businesses, and Mr Orbán says that it is obvious here that hidden party funding is taking place, it is clear to him. In comparison, the contract between the European Commission and Altus was not yet concluded at the time, and a son of a euro cent has not yet been referred to Altus by the European Commission. Then how can the Hungarian Prime Minister be sure? So one of our proposals was to leave the part concerning party financing or DK financing. Two: the Hungarian Prime Minister would have expressed such confidence if he had not sabotaged the accountability of the regime before 2010. It's been sabotaged. You may argue with that, Congressman Kósa, but then you may have a strange notion of accountability. In your language, accounting obviously means putting a diplomat passport in that pocket. [[Lajos Kósa: I didn't say anything.]] The one we're counting. In this sense, account was indeed made. [[Lajos Kósa: I didn't say anything, I just watched you.]] So, on the one hand, without accountability, I don't know what your Prime Minister knows for sure. On the other hand, I think that in this situation, if there are such fears in the mind of the Hungarian Prime Minister, then the Parliament should help and oblige the government to not travel the interest of Gyurcsány in a government delegation. This was also covered by our amendment proposal. And let us see a miracle, the Fidesz majority did not accept our proposal for an amendment requiring accountability, nor our proposal for the prohibition of diplomatic passports to be given to Gyurcsányek. So in Hungarian, we stand here in the debate of this proposal for a resolution, that Fidesz-KDNP has declared that it does not want to be accounted for and does not want to take the diplomatic passport from János Kóka's pocket, which, by the way, roams the world so that Ferenc Gyurcsány can take out as much dividends from his company as possible. The third is, of course, as a slugger, if you are talking about party funding already hidden in the title of the resolution proposal, I think that we should now not change the title of the decision proposal, but give it a basis. Yes, we have tabled an amendment to order the government to account for the CF and to ban government propaganda. If we know for a fact that the last election campaign took place, there was a NGO called CÖF, which, by the way, campaigned alongside Fidesz, made a pre-emption campaign, and also campaigned in parallel with the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, what is party funding, if not this?!If it's some hidden party funding, it's what the Orbán government is doing in the name of government propaganda. All they do is put their party politics bullshit on government money on billboards like this. Now, that's party funding. If we already want a parliamentary resolution proposal on this, then we must oblige the government to ban pro-government propaganda - otherwise it does not have to work very hard, because LMP has already put this bill on the table twice - to draft a bill, to bring it before the House, and finally to account for the CF, which has hiddenly financed Fidesz in the last election campaign. I think it's worth talking about. It would also be worth talking to you about, Mr Kósa, that, if you are so sore about the fact that, by the way, the Gyurcsány company does not have very elegant access to European shops, then why are you getting the same Gyurcsány company Asian shops? Talk about that. In addition, talk about how the devil knows how Ferenc Gyurcsány works between his party and his company, if the accountability has been sabotaged in the last four years. That's what we're waiting for. [[18.10]] Until these amendments are accepted, we do not want to participate in another act of the Orbán-Gyurcsány circus - together with many Hungarian people - and therefore we will not press a button in the decision on the resolution proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-214	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is President Novak, Congressman Jobbik.
u2015-06-29-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have nine amendments, one from the LMP, one from the MSZP and seven from Jobbik. I'd like to speak with these. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Of course, this does not reflect the voting rate, i.e. how many votes have been voted out of it, because the system of national cooperation - as they are used to say - has, as usual, passed an examination that it has been unread, so I would like to argue for the sake of the minutes; and not only for the sake of the minutes, because tomorrow it also asked for the three most important of Jobbik's proposals. First of all, that the Parliament should ask the government to do so in this proposal for a resolution - if that is what has already been put on the agenda here - so that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his government can be accounted for in the campaign before the 2010 elections. I don't know how the ruling party can wipe this out, how it's been able to sweep it off at committee level so far. Now all Members can believe that the change of regime and accountability, this new thing has happened, and that they can vote on the rest of our proposals. However, I consider this to be the most important, because, among other things, in March 2010, János Lázár said, for example, that the future does not begin without the socialists and the free democrats being counted for the governance of the last eight years. There were several similar revelations of Fidesz, and certainly Lajos Kósa, while he was here, he could recall one or two, a couple of sounds, which at that time, I'm sure a lot of people would like to hear, but more and more people will see that these are empty words, because the accounting was completely cancelled. It is no wonder, for the notary of this proposal is the one of János Lázár, who - a little funny or sad; I don't know what the right word is - submitted by him, whose travels made the press very loud recently, and said that he would not tell us where he was, who he met, how much if he was required to do so by a court. In four nights, he managed to put together a hotel bill of nearly HUF 2 million in four nights according to the original cost figures - because of course this changed to new statements. Of course, János Lázár did not start this kind of theft today, as he was already a young politician, a starting politician, and in his first cycle he was a record player, since he was a record record player in the 2002-2006 cycle without an invoice: he received HUF 18 million for travel and accommodation expenses in four years. János Lázár said that he only took as much money from the National Assembly as he was entitled to, that is, 18 million 200 thousand forints in four years. In total, only in this first cycle did he receive 41.4 million HUF in cash, while speaking only seven times during his first four years. I have also calculated: this will cost the voters 6 million HUF per speech, and obviously much more, as the contributions were also charged to the Office of the Parliament. So János Lázár received 6 million forints per speech, but it could be said that if you look at it as an hourly fee or not, he was paid more than 2 million forints per minute, if you consider his large speeches as the object of the work and not their possible back-up deal, in which he is certainly very good. It is no surprise, then, that our proposal for the accountability of Ferenc Gyurcsány has been swept off, but let us record for the record - this list may come in handy once again - who is still the one for Ferenc Gyurcsány; the plenary will vote on this tomorrow. In order not to be unilateral and unfair, the plenary will also vote on the proposal that we should also examine - here in the thematic, taxative list - the fact that the hidden party funding carried out through the Moonyard of Fidesz will also be examined, in particular, the CÖF and the companies owned by Lajos Simicsika and Zsolt Nyerges, Lőrinc Mészáros and Andy Vajna. This is where the oligarchs could obviously continue, but I did not wish to abuse their patience in this proposal either; therefore, it cannot be considered a completely precise and taxative list, although with a related amendment, I think that Lajos Kósa can live quite bravely as he may know this world more precisely. I think that in order to avoid double standards, Fidesz should also be investigated. There are, of course, overlapping situations, situations that I don't know where to classify. I would also like an answer from Mr Lajos Kósa on this matter, for example, the case of János Kóka's diplomatic passport. This is the crime of the previous government, the current government, isn't it, this kind of political crime and economic crime, because I would have expected action to withdraw his diplomatic passport in my amendment proposal. We would also like to ask the government to publish the list of politicians of the Gyurcsány governments which has been given the same passport participation privilege, which has so far been encrypted for reasons of national security, after it has unfortunately been swept off. [[Deterioration in the benches of the LMP.]] Recently, information has come to light that some criminal elements have also received diplomatic passports, so there are more than just János Kóka. On this subject, Jobbik, my fellow Member, István Szávay, also asked the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, but, in essence, they refused to respond on grounds of national security. So we don't even know who the criminals who were actually saved by the current government are. I have already spoken to János Lázár on the matter of a secretary of state who has been saved from the Bajnai government, now Deputy State Secretary, who has taken state salaries from four places in full employment. There are some, let alone the Bajnai government, who has not been accounted for, but who have been transferred and are now receiving such multiple state management benefits. However, let us stick to the amendments. I've told this story several times, so let's look at what's going on at government level. In this respect, we have also been swept down by an amending proposal, which is to put an end to the government propaganda, which is a part of it, as well as to the national consultation, which is a part of it. That would be a task, I think, which would definitely be on the agenda. [[There's a constant exposure to the benches of the LMP.]] [[István Jakab, President of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In fact, let us go a little further, since not only the accountability, but the whole change of regime has been cancelled, which is why Parliament should also ask the government to submit a Lustration Act in this proposal to ban former Communist leaders, including the KISZ KB Secretary Ferenc Gyurcsány from public life. None of this could have happened if there were no politicians derailing the regime, including you, Mr Lajos Kósa, because they have been sitting here in Parliament for 25 years, and they have somehow forgotten to submit it here, in the face of their indeterminate public affairs. In fact, when Jobbik submitted it, you swept it down, so we would like to see it done in some way, because if Ferenc Gyurcsány could not normally have been here in public life after some alleged change of regime, then he could not have committed all the sins for which his accountability was even more justified than at the time of the change of regime. Obviously, we are not saying that every former High School KIS Secretary, MSZMP member, whoever is being punished, should be sanctioned. Obviously, there may be a debate about whether or not ex-communist László Kövér would be included in such a Lustration Act. [[Deterioration in the benches of the LMP.]] But there is no question that Ferenc Gyurcsány, who led him to the level of secretary of the Central Committee of the KISZ... - wherever we draw the line, I think there would be no dispute between us that the leaders of the Communist Youth Association, if not such small László Kövér, but the leaders of the former highest level, should be excluded from public life, not only as Prime Minister or Speaker, but also as a representative, or as a leader of state companies. This is also my suggestion - what a coincidence, I don't suppose, at the pressure of László Fat or one of the other ex-communists, but it was swept off. I would have been here: for example, I also called for a review of the violations of the laws relating to the taking-over of KISZ assets by Demis, as Ferenc Gyurcsány's management is also an act. I explained this in detail about one page in the explanatory memorandum. Finally, I ask you to take to heart our amendment [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the course of tomorrow, that the citizens of Hungary have indeed been misled when they have taken a position with a large majority on our accession to the EU. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-06-29-216	Dear Parliament, As no other speakers have made themselves known, the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa as rapporteur.
u2015-06-29-217	Absolutely. Dear House, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In case anyone does not know, I must say that it is not a bill, as my dear fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said, but a proposal for a resolution in Parliament. You know, we're at the house of lawmaking, so it's good to be precise. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. Dr. István Józsa: You are a coward! Why didn't you say so in the debate?! The president's ringing the bell.]] [[18.20]] This proposal for a decision concerns the prevention of hidden party funding and the safeguarding of trust in the institutions of the European Union. On what has been said in this debate, I would like to say the following. In fact, the language and language of the opposition have now made it commonplace, on the basis of which I can rightly say: dear fellow Members, the Novák couple have so far stolen 120 million forints from the Hungarian people. [[Noise, clarity, interruptions from Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] I would like to add that I have only applied the better logic, because they are quite simply, if a Member of Parliament takes a salary and the pro-government is called simple theft. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't slide!]] By the way, all that happened was that the Novák couple made 120 million HUF from the Hungarian Parliament in the last five years. I don't think that's stealing. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Cost compensation.]] I would just like to emphasise this because in Jobbik's vocabulary, actually, today, when a power company is providing and asking for money from the person to whom it supplies electricity, it's also stealing, but it's minimum scraping. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] I think that this is not justified, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the proposals for János Lázár, in other words, the wordings should be just like this... (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.) Mr. Schiffer, the thing is, I didn't say a word, I just watched you, and you took it as if I didn't know what I was yelling. Do me a favor and don't yell in the debate, just... You don't have to look at me, just listen to me if I've had the patience to wait out all the yelling nonsense you've been talking about in this debate. Because the debate - and once again, I think that the Novák couple has not stolen 120 million forints in the last five years, but that is what they have earned as Members of Parliament. I would like to add that, by the way, during the political-accumulation which Jobbik has so often said, they entered the extremely distinguished and private circle in which the Torgyán couple, the Balogh couple, the Konya couple, the Veres couple and the Novák couple belonged, and since the regime change in the history of the Hungarian Parliament we have been able to welcome five couples to Parliament. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition side.]] , as in the context of family job accumulation. I am just saying that, by the way, very often in the debate, it was understandable that what the Members of this House had imposed on others was not, by the way, raised for themselves. After all, Jobbik was also involved in getting me a diplomatic passport, by the way. [[Intercom from the opposition side.]] Obviously KGB agent man [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Who, moreover, did not hide very much, but openly fund Jobbik as a party, and has been rewarded by Jobbik with a seat in the European Parliament. At the same time, I would like to stress that it has been completely mixed up, and my fellow Member Schiffer has also mixed this up, even though he tends to be able to make a clear distinction between things, between supporting or financing a policy. That's a big difference. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] 'Cause the thing is, you guys are very often confused about these two. The funding of Hungarian parties is subject to extremely close and consistent laws. By the way, if it were to be a matter of party funding, it could have been for our benefit... - it does not have to be, because, of course, there is much to be done, but the gratitude of the opposition is not the least; as a very famous American politician said, if a politician wants gratitude, he should have a dog, because he will certainly be grateful, the opposition will be the least. But we could have been praised by the fact that the party financing rules that we have implemented make it possible for all... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Campaign funding.]] He is right, and the campaign funding system allows all parliamentary parties to have a chance to fight the election, but there is no need to be grateful, not even fair, and, of course, to throw hundreds of billions or even thousands of billions, I do not understand why we stopped at 100 billion. Although I would just like to say once again that you have a great disability, if you didn't have a sense of humor, because if you had a little bit stuck in it, you would understand the difference between a serious statement and an ironic remark. Because, of course, if you look back on the Parliamentary record, you can see that you have stolen thousands of billions of dollars on the Fidesz-type sentence in no other way can you react in any meaningful way, but ironically, you interject that this is a certain estimated amount, because who counted it. But that doesn't mean that the attacker is justified, but that's the instrument of irony - and then perhaps you should read about it by studying what irony is all about. It is a pity that my fellow Members in the MSZP did not understand this, but that is the case. In any case, the proposal that we have tabled is based on the simple statements made by Ferenc Gyurcsány himself. He himself said several times in the press that he financed the Democratic Coalition with the money he received in the Altus business - that's what he said, imagine. He said something else, if you remember, for example, he emphasized several times when he was a socialist party president, because, you know, at one time, Ferenc Gyurcsány was your president, then he said that all kinds of money had been made here, better not to ask, and not to look at where those money came from. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why didn't you ask him?]] Ference Gyurcsány was asked several times, of course, because he had to appear under oath in court, if he remembered. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] In the Kecskemét court, when he was invited to testify in the Zuschlag case, they asked whether the Zuschlag funds had otherwise entered the party financing register of the MSZP. It turns out that they were going on, even though they were passing through, into the MSZP's youth class. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal we have tabled reflects on the absolutely amazing case that the European Union, who likes to refer to transparency, the exclusion of conflicts of interest and the larceny, the conduct of things in clear terms, so that it is clear what we are talking about... - it has looked at or overlooked the amazing situation that the company of a former Prime Minister's family member has won a tender where, in principle, it is up to the current government to implement, to be more precise, the European Union's proposals that have been announced and used by the current government, whether it is appropriate or not. Clearly, there is a conflict of interest for everyone, not even the European Union has won, otherwise, by breaking hands and looking at it, to say moderately meaningless sentences about whether they have acted with caution, because it is obvious that they have not acted with caution. In far fewer cases of conflict of interest, the EU has also backed down. I think, regardless of whether the amendments which are not otherwise relevant to the case are accepted by Parliament, because, of course, no one is prevented by the house rules if they consider other issues important, whether Jobbik or the MSZP, but in this very specific case, it is right to draw the European Union's attention to the fact that what they are doing is wrong; what they are doing is unacceptable; what they are doing is contrary to all the principles they consider important. Therefore, with great respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members in the MSZP, our better colleagues, our fellow Members in the LMP to support this proposal. Let us not confuse this proposal with what has come up here in the debate, with all the ponies they say at a time like this, but let us take action together and draw the European Union's attention to the fact that what they are doing is unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.30]]
u2015-06-29-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr President Novak asked for the floor. As you have indicated your opposition, I give you the floor. If it's point-of-the-art, you can have it.
u2015-06-29-219	Thank you. Of course, it's on the order of business, and I'd like to respond to it on the basis of personal involvement, especially in the case of...
u2015-06-29-220	Congressman, I do not consider this matter to be personal, because you were here in the Chamber, and you reacted in a similar way to Members who were absent.
u2015-06-29-221	No, I have not dealt with the spouses, nor have I given false figures, Mr President, or, of course, János Lázár can respond to them at any time when he appears here. But the reason I didn't respond to Lajos Kósa's words is because he said that in the closing words, in a rather uncouth way, giving false numbers. So allow me, Mr President, to answer these questions.
u2015-06-29-222	You have two minutes...
u2015-06-29-223	Thank you.
u2015-06-29-224	...of which 39 seconds have passed.
u2015-06-29-225	All right, thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I have to make it clear that, of course, we are not talking about, say, 120 million forints here. [[Lajos Kósa: Together, children?! Count it. Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] He may have counted on his own salary, but Dóra Dúró and I have always been among the least wanted MEPs for the last four years, and I am still one of them. It is also unfounded to say that there were only five married couples. There were periods when, alone in one cycle, five couples were members of the Parliament, but since the change of regime, they have been members of the husband and wife. I think it's unworthy of you to say that. I was talking about an unaccounted record of reimbursement, which is rather unethical, so a referendum initiative has brought together the necessary amount of signatures, while you have quickly amended the law so that you do not have to suffer this referendum. I think that it cannot be compared to taking a fee, but not a refund without an invoice. In addition, I complained that this 18 million HUF 200 thousand in billless reimbursement was received for six speeches - seven or seven times over the four years. I have spoken 547 times during these first four years, and Dóra Dúró in similar quantities, so I think that the paralleling of these two, especially in the extremely personal way you have served [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's extremely unworthy. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-06-29-226	Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kósa asked for the floor in order of business. I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-06-29-227	Mr President, I would like to ask you two questions. One is that, in the context of the debate, the representative of the government indicated that he would like to speak before closing the debate. [[Dr. Water East Mariann says no.]] And now, if I'm reading it right, he won't have a chance to tell me now. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes! Dr. István Józsa: The government can always speak!]]
u2015-06-29-228	Mr President, I would like to point out that, since I did not put the agenda on the agenda, but since the Member indicated at the beginning of the debate that he wished to present his position at the end of the debate, this took place within a ten-minute timeframe.
u2015-06-29-229	Okay, thank you very much. That's what I wanted to clarify...
u2015-06-29-230	Yeah.
u2015-06-29-231	... because then the government will no longer speak in this matter. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]]
u2015-06-29-232	That's right.
u2015-06-29-233	Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-234	Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-235	That was one of them because I told you I had two comments. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] The other is, of course, I didn't want to hurt the Novaks. I also indicated in my comment that I was being ironic, because the current use of the word is that if someone else takes a salary and is on, say, the pro-government side, it's simple theft. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Otherwise, count on the incomes of the two, because not only János Lázár, but also all other Members of Parliament in the previous system of payments were entitled to an unaccounted and unaccounted for, just as you were entitled to. [[Novek: Not us!]] And I had no knowledge that you had repaid this money to Parliament's budget. But, once again, the last thing I wanted to do was hurt you; I was ironic at the absurdity that, by the way, if someone were to take a salary, it would be... and pro-government, then he was obviously stolen. [[Dr. István Józsa: What is the order of business?!]] While, of course, the President Novák, who also takes on a salary as a Member of Parliament, with his sacrificial work, has 560 comments per day, but we will also calculate the sacrifice of a sentence at a speed of one minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The series of points of order, after the rules of chivalry have concluded the debate, I consider it closed. If Mr András Schiffer wishes to address this issue in order of business, please indicate. [[Dr. András Schiffer: In order of business, yes.]] I'll give you the floor, but if you'd like to comment on that, I'll withdraw. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On a general basis, for the future, I would like to ask the President to speak in order...
u2015-06-29-238	Congressman...
u2015-06-29-239	In order of business...
u2015-06-29-240	...you have a chance, I'm not giving you the floor...
u2015-06-29-241	In order of business...
u2015-06-29-242	... I'm not giving you the floor. The chair of the meeting shall not be criticised. Thank you.
u2015-06-29-243	I'm not criticizing... [[Dóra Dúró: It can be judged in order of business! Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] No...
u2015-06-29-244	For the future, you're a faction leader, you have an opportunity to proceed according to the house rules. Thank you.
u2015-06-29-245	I didn't criticize...
u2015-06-29-246	We'll move on to the next agenda, thank you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Forebod Novák: It's a matter of order, it's the biggest joke!]] Thank you, the debate is over. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed debt settlement of natural persons and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach, János Latorcai, György Rubovszky, László Aradszki, Mátyás Firtl, László Földi, Rózsa Hoffmann, János Hargitai, Bence Rétvári, Miklós Seszták, István Simicskó, Miklós Soltész, László Szászfalvi, Imre Vejkey, Attila Attila Móring submitted by representatives of KDNP. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate, with a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-29-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4890 on debt settlement for natural persons. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee and the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. These amendments, as well as certain points in the proposed amendment by the Judicial Committee, were adopted by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. The essence of the private bankruptcy procedure can be defined by providing the debtor with a legal framework for the settlement of the debt with his creditors. In particular, the planned private bankruptcy procedure aims to avoid debt traps for debt lenders and people who accumulate multiple payment delays, given that debt settlements in enforcement and forced sale procedures could put these groups in a difficult position without bankruptcy protection. Private bankruptcy regulation follows the state measures that have been introduced so far to help bank debtors, creating a coherent system. The solution to the problems of families in difficulty in payment, in particular the debt lenders, if they have at least minimum assets and capacity to repay, can be effectively facilitated by a debt settlement procedure called a private bankruptcy procedure, and can ultimately be achieved by getting out of the debt trap. The opposition points raised in the committee were highlighted, and I would also like to stress that this is a voluntary submission, so the bill does not force anyone to do anything. If the debtor himself considers that this procedure is necessary for his family's own financial security, he may do so, otherwise there is no pressure on him. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss. [[18.40]]
u2015-06-29-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There were six abstentions, which came from the Socialist Group, and I would therefore like to draw up in a few points the arguments on the basis of which we also argued in the debate at the committee's meeting and on the basis of which the six abstentions were cast. The reason for the stay was that we felt that it was not good in a good direction, not very fortunate, not too strong, because we feel that this proposal is a guardianship for those who have an income, but who are not good at managing their money, but that it does not help the lives and situations of those who have no income. In particular, I would like to point out that those back-of-charges who have a good number of more than 150,000 people in this country are virtually unable to help in any way. So, despite all goodwill, I can say that it's actually a half-solution that's ahead of us, or maybe you can say that it's not even a half-solution. The MSZP - we have also said this in the debate - has another proposal. You have a proposal that will address this issue better than the proposal that we have before us, and that will be presented in the debate. There was obviously a discussion at the committee meeting about this in some way. However, I would also like to point out that, for the KDNP initiative ahead of us, a number of amendments were tabled at the debate stage, a socialist amendment, but the initiative before the TAB also explains and clarifies the proposal in some 29 points. This shows how unprepared the bill before us was. This 29 points are complemented by a 68-point spelling-checking program, where you can see solutions to language-location, engraving and engraving problems. I do not want to make fun of this, because obviously, where they work, the chips are falling, so there is the possibility of error everywhere, but I can say that in such a proposal, the fact that spelling problems are so great in the law, in the proposal before us, certainly shows that this can indeed be considered. Even more so, because he's so bureaucratic... bureaucratized - I've come to a fork in the road. [[Lajos Korózs's name.]] - resulting in a system of overgratification, which, you might say, is indebted to the bottom of his feet, who will come to the end of this legal torture. For all this reason, I must say that, since this is not a good step in the right direction, the Socialist Party cannot support this, which is why we did not support it in the TAB either. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the authors if they'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, who speaks on behalf of the authors.
u2015-06-29-251	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary group supports T/4890. Legislative proposal No 1 and the Commission's amendments to points 1 to 29 of the Legislative Committee meeting of 25 June 2015. I would like to present my further statement in the closing section. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-252	Thank you, Congressman. The congressman has nine minutes to close. I will ask if you, on behalf of the Government, would like to speak with the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Mariann Water East: You're welcome in front of the closing.]] Now you have the opportunity, Madam Secretary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Mariann Water East. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The general and detailed debate on the bill on debt settlement for natural persons has closed. In doing so, a number of proposals were made, but the amendments tabled by the Members of Parliament did not touch on the fundamental issues of the concept of the bill. All parliamentary groups have basically supported the introduction of private bankruptcy protection as an institutional institution for the removal of families from debt traps and introduced in many countries. No one contested, even recognised and supported the purpose and legal framework of the regulation. The objectives of the regulation on the subject are as follows. The law must implement the debt trap and, above all, the settlement of the debts of families with debt debts that have become insolvent. What causes differences of opinion is how to protect the debtor in such a way that the interests of the debtor and their creditors are best coordinated as far as possible. How can this goal be achieved with the new debt resolution law? Debt settlement should be fair and the interests of debtors and their creditors should be taken into account. A procedure should be established which creates at least a minimum consensus between the debtor and his creditors. Therefore, the court shall lay down the detailed conditions for the repayment of the debt and, in so doing, shall decide on the sale of the debtor's assets if no agreement is reached either outside the court or after the opening of the court's bankruptcy proceedings or if the debtor does not comply with it. It is worth noting that the bill contains a number of debtor protection rules, not only for mortgage lenders, but also for their guarantors and pledges, as well as for those who do not own their residential property, but also for those who lease it. However, it must be seen as a fact that, in addition to their assets, many of the families facing the immediate threat of forced sales, which accumulate several payments delays, are able to benefit from the procedure, who, to the extent and for years, continue to comply with the arrangement. It can also be expected from the debtor, if he has received prior bankruptcy protection, until a settlement or court decision has been reached, that he will pay at least the reduced amounts of repayment required by law, i.e. that he does not completely cease to fulfil his payment obligations towards creditors. It is also understandable for the legislator to expect that debt will not be increased during bankruptcy protection, so that at least maintenance, collective condominium costs and public utility charges will still have to be paid. I am sending all these forwards in order to demonstrate the reasons why the Government does not support some of the Members' motions and why it considers them to be completely unfounded. First of all, I would like to point out that, under the current circumstances, amendments which would allow bankruptcy protection even in cases where the debtor is not insolvent or has only a small amount of non-payment are not eligible. If such a rule were supported by the government, it would rather destroy the payment discipline of society, and therefore its national economic damage would outweigh the expected benefits. Dear Parliament, The Honourable Parliament is also aware that the most urgent task now is to protect families who would face the auction of their residential property if we did not now create this law. The most pressing need for bankruptcy is for these families, not only because of their debt, but also because they are already heavily indebted in several parts. It must be seen that these families today do not spend more on their daily livelihoods than this bill leaves behind for debtors from wages and entrepreneurial profits. It should also be pointed out that the bill takes account of the family circumstances to be respected. These include extraordinary expenses, persistent illness, elderly or dependent family members. The legislator also manages separately the instruments necessary for the continuation of an individual undertaking. These may be kept by the debtor below a certain threshold and shall not be sold for debt settlement. This bill therefore leaves more income and wealth to families than if they were being implemented. [[18.50]] The advantage of this bill is that bankruptcy protection can be granted for up to five years, but the price is that each creditor receives at least the minimum return required by law by the end of the procedure. Those who speak of debt slavery or excessive public supervision, or who consider the permissions of the family administrator to be excessive, are mistaken. Whoever has read the bill sees that the legislator first provides a flexible legal framework, the so-called out-of-court debt settlement procedure, where there is no family administrator assigned to the debtor. The family bankruptcy service only examines whether the debtor complies with the legal requirements, has submitted all the necessary documents and declarations, and the bankruptcy service provides legal opportunity for previously unknown creditors to enter the proceedings. The legislator is therefore based on the honesty and cooperation of the debtor in this simplified procedure. If, on the other hand, it turns out that the debtor does not comply with the rules or conceals his assets or income, then bankruptcy is terminated, the proceedings will be terminated by a court. If the first out-of-court settlement does not take place, the proceedings shall continue as a judicial private bankruptcy procedure. There are already strong arguments here to strengthen the supervision of the debtor by the State, but this supervision by the family administrator may be exercised, not for the sake of itself, but in the form and extent justified by the debt settlement, in order to ensure the regularity of the procedure, within the framework of the law and the implementing regulations. It would be a huge misunderstanding to believe that the purpose of establishing a family property supervision system is to limit the life of the debtor. Family property managers will be much more responsible for preparing decisions for the court, and their task will be to support settlement between the debtor and creditors; in the event of their failure, they will be responsible for administrative and coordination tasks which will spare the debtor, creditors and, in particular, the court from unnecessary workload and costs. We can hope that, within the legal framework of the private bankruptcy, multi-annual pay reschedules will be able to eliminate the difficulties of paying families if they are to do so with patience and discipline. Finally, I would like to mention that the Government and the national authorities are in favour of amendments which represent a new role for the State in the resolution of debt. This so-called repayment aid, which will be available under the conditions and amounts laid down in the implementing regulation to mortgage lenders who want to keep their residential property. The government has also thought of residential groups who are unable to repay the debt. For them, the expansion of the National Device Manager programme could be a solution. The relevant amendment was submitted to this bill by a Commission amendment. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would ask you to support the summarised amendment tabled to the bill by voting in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-254	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, will be speaking. The group has a nine-minute timeframe.
u2015-06-29-255	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the words of the poet, there is only one man on his feet in the countryside, Congressman Imre Vejkey from the desks of the authors. Looks like he's the only one who can handle all this. Look, back in the day, when I spoke on the case, I told you exactly what our excuse was. It wasn't really the social groups who needed government help the most, in our opinion. All the more so, because this is what helped us do better, because we have submitted three legislative proposals in recent years to solve the problem, but unfortunately, this has always been voted off by the majority of governments. It is a rather lousy work that has come before the Parliament, and it does not characterize or classify the group and not the Members, but the government work and portfolio presentation that is able to bring a bill to Parliament, which has 129 pages and later 71 pages. I think that this rating itself is to explain through 71 pages what was wrong or what they did wrong in the previous proposal, and more so to say that this is the responsibility of the wallet and the responsibility of the government. If there have been years to put this in writing and to put it in paragraphs, then it is worth asking two questions as to what kind of portfolio reconciliations took place prior to this, the other question is what kind of inter-ministerial negotiations took place at government level, and what was the quality of the Administrative State Secretary's meeting, and what was the quality of the government meeting if they could submit a submission to the Parliament with so many errors. And if you have to clarify through 71 pages, explain what was wrong with the previous one, then there's no other qualification for that than being a loser job. Look, according to the latest statistics, there are 182 thousand mortgage holders with problems. Compared to this, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank says in a background study that they can help 20-25 thousand people or families with this solution proposal. If they can help 20-25 thousand families, and there are 182 thousand, for some reason problematic mortgages, then there are 157 thousand differences between the two, and in 157 thousand cases they are unlikely to be able to help. She mentioned the National Asset Management Organisation, which I hold unchanged to a fictitious organisation, despite the fact that quotas have been tried to be completed in the last two years, but if you look at the statistics, my dear friends, in the first half of the year, I have written out exactly 1563 families who could help me in the National Asset Manager. Well, we need it a hundred times more, there's a hundred times as many troubles as the National Asset Manager can help people or families. It's a hundred times worse than what you can handle with this proposal. And, well, what I just said was that we had a 100 times better suggestion. I do not dispute the intention of the Member here in the last month, as it is now the second time before Parliament to negotiate this law, such a trial, this intention I do not dispute, I do not dispute that they are trying to help, but I must say that they are not helping people with the most serious problems. In my speech, I explained what debts and debts there were. And let me finish by saying another unsearched sentence: the eviction moratorium is about to close. My dear friends, I don't want to alarm anyone, but there will be tens of thousands of families here who will be executed by the banks, because they couldn't do it, or they could only do it restrictively over the last few months or the past year and a half or two. If so, and they can only help 20 to 25 thousand families with this law, I do not underestimate the impact of this, but I say that we will be able to stay at the very least on this issue, because this proposal does not answer the most pressing problems. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-29-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. A statement will be made in order of application, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, to the burden of the time frame available. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In the debate, we indicated that, as my fellow Member said, this law is not helping the very layer of people who need it most. Moreover, as a criticism, we have already expressed in the debate why the government had to wait five years for this. Three times after 2010, the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted the initiative to protect family bankruptcy, then all three were swept off the table. It's been two or three years since then, and we're back here arguing about the law, and again, you're not gonna be able to help the people you need the most. [[19.00]] Madam Secretary said that if we had read the law or read the law. They always refer to the fact that we don't know them, or perhaps we don't want to read them. We do read it. And then there's all these criticisms about why we're putting in modifications or why we didn't put in modifications. Even here, even though you have given in to your well-intentioned amendments, you are constantly being swept off the table. My fellow Member has already said that this law does not help families with public utility debts. The population now owes about HUF 94-96 billion. We're talking utility debt. It is true that the indicator has improved a bit compared to 110 billion, but HUF 30 billion of utility debt is generated every month within 30 days. Every month, the residents accumulate another HUF 30 billion in the back. The other is that we now have to go to the statistics. Last week, it was published that KSH will no longer publish minimum living data. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] After more than a hundred years, this kind of publication will cease. I have a fear that this whole thing started because it's gonna be September again, when poverty figures are supposed to be communicated to the government or to the ISH. Last year, this was a huge scandal, because instead of September, we managed to publish poverty indicators at the end of November, and now, ahead of that, the KSH announces that this method has now been completed, and from now on we will come up with something new. Just, you know, Madam Secretary, when more than 70 percent of Hungarian families cannot finance an unexpected expenditure in Hungary today, and no one here should think of hundreds of thousands of forints, we are talking about 50-60 thousand forints in Hungary today, an unexpected edition, 50-60 thousand forints today more than 70 per cent of the average families cannot finance it, then they come with the family bankruptcy protection that can support a very, very narrow layer if they want to participate in it at all. Because it is also a question of whether you will want to participate in this under such strict conditions. So the most outrageous thing is that they come here and say that we didn't read the law or maybe we read the law. Again, it is a criticism that one State Secretary says why we are not putting in an amendment, and the other will criticize the opposition because it is irresponsible to submit the amendments. I would add that it always ends the same way: it is voted off at committee meeting, with any intention of improving the committee. With any rightful intention. And when we talk about how much we should help families: even though there is an asset manager, even though there is an apartment park in Ocsa, as my fellow Member said, there is a much greater problem than talking about 15 or 20,000 families now. It's a lot bigger than that. It's been years, they didn't do anything, and now there's an uneven law. Rather, we should think about how these laws are made, and we should finally think about the Hungarian families! Thank you.
u2015-06-29-258	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, submitted a written statement. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-29-259	Mr President, Dear House, The package you just put on the table is amazing. The slenderness, the pitiful work performance after the years that the government has been sweating out of you is shocking. It is quite simply amazing that a proposal of just over a hundred pages is now being modified on more than 70 pages. How do you imagine a 185-point amendment being put here, in which there are, by the way, some of the elements that I can support myself, one or two lighter conditions that can benefit certain debtors, but are not able to intervene in this at systemic level, nor do you want to interfere in all of this. Our amendments, which were designed not to create such a severely narrowed and violent system that you have created, have simply been swept down, without any thought at all. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right.]] We have given a simple example that, due to bank tricks, various valuations, changes in the real estate market, it is very easy to come up with a situation where an average property damaged by foreign currency loans is estimated to be of such value that the debt shown on paper is not real, but much higher than the value of the property. You consciously, intentionally, fraudulently and sinfully exclude tens of thousands of people from the possibility of help. Tens of thousands are excluded from this system, and now, by adopting one or two amendments, they could at least give air to those who are open and interested. Because what I'm saying is that this methodology you've created is aggressive, violent, intervening, in some ways raping the lives of families. They intervene so aggressively that there is a model where less money is left free to spend on a family member than a public worker's salary. That's aggressive. So there's nothing to sugarcoat, it's a very powerful procedure. At the same time, they are asking us to vote in favour. If necessary, we can give you this, because the system is voluntary, the only good thing is that it will be applied to this by those who consider it beneficial for themselves. So Jobbik will not be responsible for a yes vote by dragging the affected into a multi-annual system so violent and so lifelong, because, as at the exchange rate barrier, we will clearly say that whoever considers this a good solution for himself should choose this. But unfortunately, the package you put down is that the implementation part of the detailed regulation will be transferred to a government decree, and 106. Paragraph 1 clearly states that the terms, extent, payment, control of the use of State aid for debt settlement, rules of the assistance of the administrator, detailed tasks, rules of professional supervision are decided in a government decree. So you put together a slendrian basic work full of spelling errors, and then you put it in almost the same range, and you still haven't been able to get to the point where you don't want to regulate very substantive issues in later government decrees. Then they stand here, they scold the opposition, saying they didn't even read the proposal, but they're asking for votes in favour of this whole package. Well, it takes courage to do that, I gotta say. There would be nothing wrong with all this, since the sense of comfort or discomfort of the opposition cannot be considered in this House, but the fact is that with the violently narrowing conditions of the package you have laid down, you knowingly exclude the tens of thousands of people you could help. Therefore, although the proposal may be supported, we hope that you will feel the breath of those people on the back of your head who are excluded from the smallest possibilities of help, because here you cannot help even one third of the many more than 150,000 people in trouble as national asset managers. So they leave people on the side of the road. And it can also be said that 20 to 25 thousand people may be helped by this package, this is not objectively true, specifically it is not true. The most optimistic estimate, the $25,000 came from an MNB executive director who said that 25,000 people could participate in this system, after your restrictive terms. At the same time, participation in the system requires ability and willingness together. I would like to see how many people will be willing to put themselves under such violent conditions, and I would like to say once again that, according to some models, the institution of family bankruptcy can develop in such a way that the income of a family member is less freely spent than a public wage. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right.]] We therefore call on you to remove these harshly narrowing conditions, not to interfere in the lives of families in such a violent way, and obviously to reconsider the proposals for amendment, the support of which you do not want to hear, and the point is that, in the age of artificially inflated debts, you do not exclude people who owe twice or even more on paper than the value of their real estate, but in reality they need help. And in the long term, it is certain that, with the end of the eviction moratorium, modest estimates suggest that thousands of people will be on the street. This situation is a dog's duty to assist you in your position as governor. And if they can't do it, they become unfit for the trust they received in two successive elections. That is why it is pathetic that they have come this far in five years, to a proposal of this quality, when this House should have voted in 2010 for family bankruptcy protection, and since then we could measure the number of families that have been released from the debt trap thanks to this system. The first five-year term could be almost over, and you have just been able to submit this proposal of a thousand wounds. That is why we are asking you to accept our corrective amendments, because without them, you can only help a small layer, only temporarily, and at this level of intervention, it is quite certain that you will not be able to prevent the major disaster. I really hope you're trying to stop this disaster. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[19.10]]
u2015-06-29-260	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have now reached the end of the pre-notification speeches, and we are now coming up with the Members asking for the floor in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-29-261	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The institution of family bankruptcy protection, which was submitted by our fellow Members from KDNP, is not a government proposal, as has been said in the debate; it is not a government proposal, it has been developed by several Members from the KDNP Group, and it is integrated into a complex system of family assistance, which, by the way, has been represented by the Fidesz-KDNP Government in a very consistent and consistent manner since 2010. Of course, we have been able to understand it many times, since all the proposals on the protection of families cannot be discussed at the same time, because the means of protecting and helping families from taking over children's meals by the state through the work programme to reducing their costs would be a great deal of legal inability to negotiate at the same time, so at each such debate, opposition representatives say that this is a minimum of assistance, which only affects a very narrow layer. Anyway, they say that even if, let's just say, there's a reduction in the rent on the agenda, and it affects everyone who owns the rent, that's what they're saying, they're saying right now. Which, by the way, only those who really do not pay any attention to what is going on here are deceived by, since it is clear to the contrary that they do not follow any kind of systemic thinking and analysis, but at any given proposal it is always possible to say that this is not enough. Of course, family bankruptcy protection cannot be such a requirement as to provide an opportunity for all the families in distress, since the starting position of these families and their financial possibilities are so dramatically different that it is impossible to include this in a bill. A good five years ago, the Hungarian government used a great many tools to protect families, from the time we tried to help the most important members of the family, women with countless tools to extend the child - right, remember the child's extra [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The ged extra.]] - We remember the specific job protection action plan for women, which helped to keep more than 300,000 jobs where, by the way, the most important member of the family is the protection of the workplace. Numerous measures taken in connection with the feeding of children have helped families in difficulty to cope more easily when they are raised. And, of course, from saving foreign exchange credentials to extending the family tax relief in the current budget and reducing personal income tax, to job creation, which is now a mass, fortunately, and we are very happy that there are more than 4 million over 200 thousand employees, because the real help for families is to employ them, because while the socialists have spoken and talked, and while they have only been able to give jobs to 3 million 600 thousand people, the government has done and has only been doing it for five years. [[Lajos Korózs: A million new jobs!]] So the thing is, we are really making good progress on the way that our commitment, the one million new jobs under the age of ten, will happen. Meanwhile, the socialists forget that the real help for these families, who are partly covered by this legislation on family bankruptcy, was a reduction in the cost. Since the reduction course, the Hungarian family's debts have decreased by 20 percent since then. In heaven, my fellow socialists, he left under your governance, when global gas prices either decreased or global gas prices increased [[Dr. István Józsa: Now it's down 16 percent!]] The gas price has always increased in Hungary, and the gas price has always increased in Hungary. [[Dr. István Józsa: It would be cheaper now! The president's ringing the bell.]] They said - I sat through the parliamentary debate - that we would liberalise the electricity market and then free competition would reduce electricity prices; it increased. Then they told us to take it back in hand and to have a certain circle of state price regulation, because it would force the state to repress market prices; it would still rise. The Socialists, whatever they did, have always increased their overhead costs. [[Lajos Korózs: Now!]] They've always gone up. Today, the reduction of the rent means for families that, compared to previous times, we have a minimum of one month's rent in the family budget, which is the real help. No one thought that, by the way, the proposal on debt settlement - this is family bankruptcy protection, so that we can put it simply - would help everyone in a comprehensive way. No. There are a lot of steps to be taken, there are a lot of proposals to be made, and this is also a slice worth taking, voluntary, so either they choose or they don't, for whom they choose, for whom they don't, they don't. There have been countless such instruments, honourable fellow Members. The exchange rate barrier has also given us an opportunity, or they have not, to enter; to the currency-loaning trap that you lured the Hungarian families into, my fellow socialists [[Dr. István Józsa: And the HUF exchange rate! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The Greek crisis in 2010. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] there was also a range of devices optional [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Either the families lived with it or they didn't. This proposal is also a proposal that gives us the opportunity, and we still need many other proposals and ideas, which will help Hungarian families. But in the last five years, we have given real help to Hungarian families. When the socialists governed, the only smart thing was that 13th month's wage, whoosh, they took it away. [[Dr. István Józsa: We gave it to you. Why didn't you give it back?]] Thirteenth month's pension, whoosh, they took it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't you give it back now? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow socialists, who are now shouting vehemently, in Parliament, all said yes - whichever of them was, of course - to the proposal to take away the 13th month pension from pensioners while raising the bills, to take away the 13th month's wages from the workers, to take away the family benefits - let's go, ged -; to vote without hesitation by those who are now shouting vehemently, to vote without hesitation! So much for who's credible on this issue, protecting families, and who isn't. Anyone who did not otherwise participate in this political struggle because he was not a Member of Parliament, in the meantime, gave his face to the most Hungarian-hating campaign campaign ever carried out by the socialists. We remember that he smiled there so that we wouldn't vote yes on dual citizenship, because that evil 23 million Romanians took away the job from Hungarian families. The face of the poster campaign is our dear fellow Member, Bangóné, who is the most vehemently shouting here in the Hungarian Parliament, even though she should account for it once if there was a chance to reassure her conscience in some way. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I have a conscience, but you don't have one.]] If this ever happens, about how such a Hungarian-phobic, Hungarian-hating campaign could be undertaken. Back to this proposal, I would like to make one more comment, given that I have been a Member for quite some time, and I also have a personal experience in what many people here have said as criticism, I would say, quite rightly by the way. It is because when MEPs put forward a bill, especially such a comprehensive self-regulation, because it is not a simple amendment, but a comprehensive regulation, we often face that problem. [[Dr. István Józsa: You shouldn't do this!]] That they do not write the proposal in the language of the law, not in the language of the law, but in the language of the law, but in other language forms, they use a different sentence structure, a sentence string than is typical of the Hungarian legal material, and therefore, when the Parliament discusses these proposals, it is a very, very technical, really linguistical, not even linguistical, problem, but rather that the Hungarian language spoken in public speaking is dramatically different from the Hungarian language used in law, and the two must be combined in some way. This work was done by the government, by the way, because that is his job, and if you look at the fact that the vast majority of the amendments are of this nature, then the picture is a little more nuanced as to how much this is prepared or not. This problem is met by anyone who is not a lawyer, who is not familiar with the legislative language in which the laws are drafted, but who has good intentions in submitting a very important bill to the House. Now that's what happened. [[19.20]] Of course, the fellow Members either support it or not. I hope that this will certainly have the support of the majority of the House, because it is an important institution. It is a very old intention to have legislation on family bankruptcy. By the way, this is one of the most difficult issues in social policy and family protection, because it wants to use an institution to protect families, which is basically designed for economic relations. This is extremely difficult, because while bankruptcy protection, debt settlement is a relatively stable, good, useful institutional system and concept in the corporate world, but even when it comes to the protection of local governments and the resolution of debt, it is quite clear what difficulties the regulator is facing there, even though it is legal personalities, i.e. not natural persons in the sense of legality. Then it turned out, for example, in the financial intermediary institutional system, i.e. in all kinds of companies such as banks, credit unions, credit intermediaries, brokerage companies, Lombard companies, how difficult and how special rules should be applied, and they are still in this economic circle. It's one of the hardest jobs. To be honest, I would like to highlight the courage of regulators. I didn't have a few debates in Parliament and during the preparatory work, where they tried to deal with family bankruptcy, but so far everyone's got their knife broken, and they chose the convenient solution, they said it was good, then we'll work on it a little bit more. I am pleased that KDNP colleagues have submitted this, as they are convinced, and if the amendments make this proposal better, then I can also support them. It is very important to consider what means of enlargement we should use, what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, has said. And here it is not the technical and language changes that need to be focused - very, very much of them - but on content issues. But also think about the role that family bankruptcy is really going to play in a family policy institutional system. It's a matter of principle, by the way. I claim that in the institutional system of supporting families and helping families, bankruptcy protection was important, but necessarily a tight slice. It meant a tight slice because, as I just said, it is a system of very different and alien relations from family relations, and it only does so because it embraces the family as an economic unit. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If you do not oppose it, support this proposal. This must be a very important institution for family policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I pass on the floor, I am obliged to note to my socialist fellow Members that on one occasion, Mr Kósa did not yell when you spoke. I think that's part of being fair. Please stick to this. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: He didn't dare to react when we could have spoken to him because he was a coward. Coward!]] Congressman, I didn't say anything. And I brought it up because you were yelling the whole time the congressman was talking. I think we are in the Hungarian Parliament! Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The LMP supports the private institution, but the way and practice that KDNP representatives have thought about and what this bill contains is not considered eligible. We have tabled amendments to the points we consider critical, but, as we are used to, none of these have been supported. We believe that this legislation will create a highly regulated, over-complicated institution, which very few will be able to use. There is a question of how these complex legal circles will be interpreted by people who want to take advantage of this opportunity. In addition to the complexity of the institution, the range of potential recipients will be very limited. In principle, it is narrowing down that until 30 September 2016 only those to whom the bank has terminated its mortgage or leasing contract or who are already in the execution phase may initiate such proceedings. We proposed that this restriction be lifted and that private bankruptcy be used for all forms of debt immediately after its introduction. They didn't support it. Beyond the time limit, there are a lot of constrictive conditions. The debtor must have a debt of at least HUF 2 million with interest and contributions and must have at least half of the debt covered by assets or income. Another condition is that there must be an overdue debt after at least 90 days, which must exceed half a million forints. We have also tabled amendments to these pointless tightening conditions, we would have lowered the debt threshold to 500 thousand, and to 250 thousand the amount of debt that expired 90 days ago. They didn't support that either. We also said that the repayment is too high. Because of the too high monthly repayment - one-twelfth of the property's turnover - the private bankruptcy only helps debtors in a better position of property and income, who have an average or above income. We also suggested reducing this, but this did not receive any support either. However, we welcome the amendment to introduce state repayment aid, although details will only be available in government regulations. Another problem - and perhaps the most serious - is that even if someone can enter the procedure, his earnable income cannot reach even half of the minimum living. The bill defines this as one-and-a-half times the old-age pension minimum, over three people in one-hundred percent, which is currently HUF 42 750. We proposed to link the disposable income to the minimum of living, to the level of it reduced by housing costs, but the majority of the government did not support this either. We feel weak about the guarantees of housing in the law. This is another weakness of the bill. If a person loses his job in five years of debt settlement - which is very likely to happen or may happen - he will be ill, leochkan, or any unexpected event, he may be put on the street under the debt repayment procedure. In order to avoid eviction without accommodation, it should have been stated that the repayment should be determined in such a way as to ensure the cost of housing and to cooperate with the municipality in order to allocate a social accommodation. Instead, so many amendments have been made that the administrator must inform the municipality and the social institution 90 days prior to the sale of the property. Well, that's not gonna do us any good. Finally, it is important to say that the masses of private bankrupts will not be able to reach, even though they should be dealt with by the government. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-29-264	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group, will be asked to speak at the expense of the time frame available.
u2015-06-29-265	Mr President, Dear House, I would also like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Kósa, that when we put down our corrective amendments in the context of family bankruptcy protection, it is clearly not our goal to give a credible support to all 180,000 fall-in or fall-in with this one method, because it is obvious that this alone cannot resolve their fate. However, we would like to see at least the number of those on the market who can help in some way towards 20-25 thousand, compared to the realistic one that emerges from the proposal after this amendment package, that one, two or a few thousand people are able to exercise a kind of help so that their lives can lead a somewhat more normal line. You can also see that in the course of the amendments - let me highlight one, the 111. §8 - it happens to be the opposite of what they wanted, which is funny on the one hand, and it means something quite different after the amendment. But it is also somewhat frightening that the government is forced to make such legislation. Another of our favourites in the codification of Jobbik is the constantly returning self-employed expression instead of the self-employed one. Do you really want to protect thousands of victims at this level of preparedness? Can they not use normal terminology used on the market for the self-employed, but write self-employed? [[19.30]] We have to tell you, it's a huge problem that you don't recognize: the eviction moratorium expires. For five years, they've been promising a methodology that would help in this case. We see that he is unable to provide meaningful assistance to large masses. The National Asset Manager drowned at one level, so it is not expected to move huge resources there either, as it is not visible in the budget, in addition to ethically condemning the loss of property ownership and renting it back from people in the form of fraudulent bank games. But there is still room for discussion about how this can be used in the market. What is completely unethical is that you, especially your State Secretary, answer to our written questions about the home creation programme and the rental stock is that there is a rental program called the National Asset Manager. So you are already preparing for the liberation of property taken from the Hungarian people. We want to prevent this, we want to prevent evictions, so we ask you to accept our amendments, because they can prevent crowds from getting on the street completely unnecessarily and harming everyone. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-06-29-266	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the time frame available. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey - yes, he indicated that he wished to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-29-267	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the conclusion of the general and detailed debate of the bill on debt settlement for natural persons, the substance of the debate can be summarised by basically supporting the introduction of the private bankruptcy in Hungary by all parliamentary groups. Each parliamentary faction fundamentally agreed with the introduction of private bankruptcy protection because it was perceived that the proposed regulation would create a procedure and legal framework for the removal of families from a debt trap. Ladies and Gentlemen, The difference of opinion in the parliamentary debate was primarily between the factions on how to ensure even more favourable conditions for debtors in the bill. In this context, the rapporteur's view was that it was necessary to give a realistic overview of the debt protection rules for which the optimal impact can be achieved in the present situation. It had to be borne in mind that the private bankruptcy procedure could only be socially accepted to protect the creditor so as to ensure that the interests of the debtor and creditors could be coordinated as far as possible. Ladies and Gentlemen, In Hungary, the consequences of a mortgage credit crisis must be tackled in the first place, given that many families have been delayed by paying off loans for the construction, purchase or renovation of their residential properties, or have accumulated other debts which have resulted in the termination of their mortgage credit contracts, the forced sale of residential property and then the eviction, if the Hungarian Parliament had not drawn up a law regulating the possibility of debt settlement involving bankruptcy with effect from 1 September 2015. I have sent these to this House in advance because it should be stressed that, in the first year following the entry into force of the law, and in particular until 2016, those persons who have long been registered as non-payers by financial institutions or other large creditors, in particular those who have already been seized in the enforcement procedure or have been designated for non-executive sale. In particular, these families are now in a hopeless situation and are therefore encouraged by the legislator to initiate the debt settlement procedure if they comply with the legal conditions. Ladies and Gentlemen, These arguments, in addition to the reasons why the bill states that it is a law for insolvent families. Those who have accumulated only a small amount of outstanding debt and have not been indebted to more than one party can, at an early stage, conclude a separate agreement outside the private bankruptcy procedure with the financial institution or other creditors outside the court on the rescheduling and thus on the recovery of their solvency in a simpler way. Several times in the parliamentary debate, it was said why the bill required the debtor to have at least one minimum amount of assets for the opening of proceedings. This is explained by the fact that the law now primarily seeks to favour housing lenders with bankruptcy protection for the purposes of home and family protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, Attention should be paid to the fact that the bill contains a number of debtor protection rules, which also allow those who are over-indebted in seeking bankruptcy protection to retain their property of a reasonable and valuable value in relation to their family circumstances. In the parliamentary debate, there was also a criticism that the regulation was too strict against the debtor because of how much the debtor could spend during the procedure. In this context, however, it should be noted that, if the law were to be allowed, the debtor would be subject to the debt repayment obligation for a longer period in addition to the current wage conditions in Hungary, the debtor could remain subject to the procedure for up to 15 years in order to ensure the expected return of the creditor. During such a period, the debtor should follow the family financial management under public supervision. However, according to the author, such a long period of debt settlement would be unfair and particularly burdensome for the debtor and the creditor. Ladies and Gentlemen, There has been an amendment which would allow the debtor until the settlement of the settlement or the court's decision to pay in such a way that no one would have to pay anything temporarily. This amending proposal cannot be supported not only because many people would launch a private bankruptcy procedure simply because of the legal delay in payment and thus would have a negative impact on the payment discipline of society, but also because this delay would further increase the burden of debt and reduce the chances of agreement with creditors. The author's view is that in return for bankruptcy protection, the debtor can be expected to, if he receives prior bankruptcy protection, to pay at least the reduced amount of repayment required by law until a settlement or judicial decision has been reached. It is also worth the legislative procedure to pay maintenance fees, common condominium costs and public utility charges which will be due in the course of bankruptcy protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also like to say a few words about the amendments that the rapporteur and the government support as part of the Commission's proposals. For example, the involvement of the State by providing financial assistance to creditors under the debt settlement procedure to create or maintain the debtor's ability to repay. In addition, an amendment has been submitted to the bill, which includes the extension of the National Asset Management Programme, which can be initiated with a higher housing value limit, so that the National Asset Manager, on behalf of the State, can purchase the debtor's residence and at the same time ensure the use of that debtor as a tenant on preferential terms. [[19.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Please make the T/4890. In addition to the proposal for a summary amendment submitted, please support the bill by its votes. The KDNP faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2011 CXXXII on the National University of Public Service and on higher education in administrative, police and military matters. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The T/5050. Subpoena No. 2, non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-29-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/5050 was negotiated pursuant to §8 of the Act. CXXXII of 2011 on the National University of Public Service, Public Administration, Police and Military Higher Education. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. The Commission presented 24 amendments and a summary report with 9 votes against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Defence and Police Committee, on the one hand, and the Legislative Committee's own proposal on the other. The purpose of the committee's proposal is to ensure that the original legislative intention - i.e. the installation of state science training to the National University of Public Service - is clearly defined. The deployment of this task to the National University of Public Service is due to the fact that this training, in line with the university's further training, aims to provide knowledge of the public service career in a direct and interoperable manner. At the same time, it is necessary to establish and raise the legal basis for the issue of Diplomas in the field of State Science Training, since it is only then and on this basis that the detailed technical, scientific consultation and preparation that is essential for the development, fitting, licensing and subsequent introduction of the new course can begin. I would like to stress that the amendment makes it clear that the installation of State Science Training to the National University of Public Service does not affect the training of other universities, including their departments of state and legal sciences, at the degree of master's degree, does not affect or alter the content of existing legal training, does not affect the possibilities and names of institutions carrying out such training. With this clarification, I believe that the usual opposition alarm can finally be completed, although my hope for this has been somewhat eliminated by what was said at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. The amendment in the bill does not seem to bother the socialists, for example, in drawing up their opinions. Nevertheless, I ask that the motion be supported, together with further technical clarifications from the Legislative Committee. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented in a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-271	Thank you, Mr. President. Just as we have never done before, we will not ask permission to make our own opinions. We didn't do that at the Legislative Committee. My fellow Member, Mr Kucsak, should not live in the belief that we will develop such a custom. We're not apologizing for having a different opinion than you. We told the committee that we had two problems with the proposal. One is that it's unnecessary, the other is that it's bad. At the meeting of the TAB, one of the issues could be resolved at some level. The wrong question was settled in some direction, as the amendment by Secretary of State Répássy, which was accepted at the meeting of the TAB, arranged that this bad proposal would have prohibited state science training itself, and would have prohibited teaching subjects of state science at other universities. This is settled by the proposal of Secretary of State Répássy, and he says that only training, this course cannot be held at another university, but otherwise, at other universities, they can teach State Science Disciplins. That is why we said at the committee's meeting that this is now just an unnecessary bill before us, not a completely wrong bill. Let me also put forward the arguments that led us to make this conclusion. On behalf of the pro-government speakers, it was said in the debate that a unified public service in which uniform training was needed was carried out. On the other hand, the fact is that at the moment there is a basic administrative degree in the framework of the National University of Public Service, a master's degree based on it, which was launched a few years ago, and compared to that, a basic administrative examination and administrative examination for civil servants with a higher education degree will be carried out to ensure that the kinds of competences that are really necessary for these workers to perform their duties are carried out in the entire verticum of the administration. I therefore think that it is not from the devil that the idea is that, if there are, at the present time, two specialised training courses for public administration employees, and there is also a basic and a vocational exam for those who do not have such qualifications in the public service, then the question may indeed arise, and I think it is right, otherwise, what is the need for state science training. It is indeed true that the kind of problems that the opposition indicated in the first part of the debate in relation to legal training have been dealt with by the amendment made by State Secretary Répássy. That is no doubt a fact, which is why I said at the committee's meeting and I agree that this part of the proposal, which is aimed at making this wrong, has certainly changed it. From now on, you just have to do something about unnecessary questions. It has also been said in the Commission's debate, and I would like to see the answer at least at the end of the debate, that, while we have a number of public service trainings, what is the point of this new training, what is it that the government wants with it, these officials have exactly what kind of job it is that people who are currently taking part in training cannot perform. The lack of an answer shows that another law provides that the requirements of this training will be developed later. So once again, unfortunately, at the committee meeting, the non-votes went in the direction that, although this law is now not so bad, it remains completely unnecessary. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-29-272	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author, Mr L. Simon László Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[L. Simon László: No.]] The Secretary of State indicated that he would like to speak in the debate later on. Dear Parliament, I now inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Member Miklós Simon, the Fidesz Group, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the Law of 2011 on the National University of Public Service and on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education aims primarily to transpose the changes resulting from the Act of 2015 amending the laws governing higher education, thus creating consistency between the relevant laws. [[19.50]] The purpose of the bill is to introduce the provisions necessary to transform the National University of Public Service into a higher education institution. This amendment is based on the Government's 2014 decision to set up the State Reform Committee, in which the Government agreed to transform the National University of Public Service into a higher education institution, and the government still considers that uniform education in state sciences is necessary. As a result of this change, there was a dispute that no university other than the National University of Public Service could teach state science. The Defence and Police Committee discussed the details of the bill, where it was clarified that there would be no exclusivity of the University of Public Service, because other universities could teach such a subject, only the National University of Public Service will have the exclusive competence to issue a diploma in state science, because the uniform education of state sciences is required and is currently lacking in the range of higher education. The concept of higher education in public administration is defined in the 2011 National University of Public Service Act, with the aim of establishing a higher education training arm specifically preparing for the career of civil servants. In 2011, the areas previously regulated as a single area of legal and administrative training were separated as the implementation of the law. Thus, legal training also became independent. In fact, administrative experts need more extensive knowledge than is provided by the current training of lawyers. Lawyers play an important role, especially in the field of legislative and enforcement tasks, but do not have the diverse knowledge of administrative, public management and sector policy that a public official, a professional administrative expert, must have. The proposal expands administrative higher education with the area of state science. State science training includes complex knowledge of the operation, organisation and tasks of the state. However, state sciences must be trained by those who are preparing for the high level of service of officials, public service managers and the state. The legislative emphasis on state science training puts the education of this area in an appropriate place, in particular with regard to the public service career and the quality of its officials' supplies. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal therefore sets out the framework between which the rapidly changing conditions for the operation of the modern state and the professional needs of the government sector can be met. In the process of public service promotion, the training of state sciences must be integrated. The aim of the training should therefore be to ensure that public tasks are dealt with in a complex manner, with a system approach to public human capital, with a high level of planning, strategic and analytical tasks, with effective management of state organisation and state operation by those who obtained such a degree in state science. For decades, such training has been available only in the institutions of the University's predecessor in the field of police, military, disaster management and national security. With regard to higher education in the field of state sciences and public administration, training will become completely unique by developing the university into a university of state sciences. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the bill. Please do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be a speech from Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-29-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is nothing more than the fact that the baby ball of higher education continues to deny, to pass through the Hungarian Rector's Conference, its Dean College of Law and State Sciences and the Department of Economics and Law of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, because they did not agree this bill before the submission, and they were forced to issue a protesting resolution when they learned that the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office wanted to intervene so harshly in higher education. Congressman Kucsák slipped on several occasions when he presented the majority opinion of the committee. He spoke only about the installation of state science training at the National University of Public Service, but here is an extremely important fact that it is an exclusive establishment, so that state science training cannot be started at any other university, only the National University of Public Service will be entitled to issue such diplomas. Congressman Kucsák also spoke of opposition alarms. Once again, I must confirm that the Rector's Conference, its Dean College, also protested. The dean's protesting statement was answered with the insolence and arrogance that they could not represent the institution, only the rector was responsible for it, so they did not take their position seriously. The Ministry of Justice was also involved in the legislative process when State Secretary Répássy submitted an amendment. In parentheses, I note that the fact that a single law is accompanied by substantive amendments from the care of three ministries is a scene appropriate to soap opera, since the Rectors have indicated their protest to the State Secretary for Higher Education, because they believe that I myself believe that the State Secretary for Higher Education should be competent, but this bill was named by Minister János Lázár, and that the amendment was submitted by Secretary of State Répássy. They therefore did not consult the Academy, the Rector's Conference or its Dean's College of Law and Law, but they agreed with the State Reform Committee. The Chairman of the State Reform Committee is Patyi András, who is also the rector of the National University of Public Service. So what does God give, the State Reform Committee led by András Patyi, suggest that state science training should be conducted only at the National University of Public Service, led by András Patyi. I think it's extraordinary impertinence. All the institutions involved in legal training were not upset by reason of this proposal. At the same time, the amendment of State Secretary Répássy is indeed a substantive amendment, but the Department of Economics and Law of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has issued a repeated resolution in which they will respond to this amendment and ask for its rejection. The Department expresses its full solidarity with the Faculties of State and Law of the Universities, as well as the University of Public Administration, Public Policy, International Policy and International Relations in a multidisciplinary framework. [[20.00]] Section 3 does not consider the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice to the bill sufficient, which ensures that the right of training in the field of state sciences and administrative sciences should not only be reserved to the National University of Public Service, but also traditionally to the Faculties of State and Law of universities, but does not give them the possibility to have the right to issue diplomas. According to the opinion of the department, the right to be trained and to issue a diploma to the universities concerned should be granted on a level playing field, including the same conditions of professional initiation, the provision of training framework numbers on a level playing field, budgetary funding on the same principle, the same qualification requirements and the conditions of placement. iiiWe therefore see that the Department of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in the field of science cannot accept the amendment proposal of the Ministry of Justice, and our position is the same: we do not see professional reasons for a single university to be able to train people in public administration. Obviously, this is about turning the National University of Public Service into a party university, so that they can better manage this area. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Public administration training has already been taken away from universities where they were otherwise held at a high level - such as the University of Debrecen, but also the Corvinus University - and it is not true that legal training is not affected by your government activities, since the state science part was taken out of the law certificate in 2010 with the amendment of the implementing regulation, and is now out of the diploma, and when the conditions for starting state science training at the NKE are created, they make the grant of the diploma of state science exclusive at the University of Public Service. So the law degree was removed in 2010, and now it is given exclusively to the University of Public Service, so it does affect legal training and its content. Parallel with this law, we will continue to debate and amend the national law on higher education, and there the State Secretary Palkovic spoke of quite the opposite intentions. The Secretary of State argued that it is important to create opportunities for training in a growing number of cities, especially in the coming regions, in the case of Ozd, but also in the case of Békéscsaba. I had the pleasure of meeting with the Secretary of State today, where he confirmed this intention. This is contrary to what they are doing now: centralising this training and providing only one institution in Budapest. Therefore, the arguments that you are putting forward in favour of a degree in peace in Csaba, are absolutely falling down here, because for example, many people can't enroll in the University of Szeged for financial reasons from the county of Békés, so how will they have the opportunity to complete a course in state science in Budapest? They won't get a chance. They're shutting down channels, channels to public administration, from these young people, from these students. You said so yourself, Secretary of State Palkovics said that, moreover, several rectors confirmed, when I had the pleasure of having discussions with them in recent months, that this is a real problem and that it is necessary to deal with it in higher education. A relatively good answer is what is given in the Higher Education Act, but a very, very bad answer is what is given in the Law on the University of Public Service. I would also ask you to consider these aspects, to reconsider the proposal, because we cannot support this in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-276	Good evening. Welcome, everyone. We'll get back to work. Members of the Committee applying for a normal word have applied for a speech by Mr László Kiss, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-29-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would not continue to present the position of the MSZP, because I think that I have done so before, but I would like to respond to a few things. I think that my colleague Miklós Simon has said a lot of important things, and I must say that I agree with a significant part of what he has said. The only problem I would like to point out is that if someone looks at the justification of the master's course in management organisation training, what is needed for this course, or if they look at the curriculum of the management master's course at the National University of Public Service, they can see that it contains the trainings that my fellow Member has spoken about. So it is not for nothing that we are stuck with the fact that there is such training that we have been talking about here, and that my fellow Member, by the way, rightly, has raised the very need for it. Such training is ongoing. It is not necessarily from the devil that you are creating another training, but I would just like to point out that, therefore, for the task that you have spoken about, my fellow Member, there is now training in this country, so it is right for everyone to ask what will happen to these professions. As the question of state science itself is obviously not from the devil, as this course existed between the two world wars in Hungarian higher education, which was later absorbed by the law school, and when the need for higher education for civil servants was established, this training went through a lot of changes, and thus reached the three-year training of the administration organizer, and then, recently, until university level training, this kind of training course. I would only like to note in low and parentheses, perhaps, the criticisms about why not all the legal faculties, for example, or even other universities, could not be given the right to take part in such training, so that, by the way, earlier, when training in state science at law universities, all the legal faculties between the two world wars had this profession. This kind of exclusivity was therefore not characteristic before. Obviously, historical analogy does not necessarily have to be taken into account, but it may be important to look back at how this training has evolved. In order to support this proposal, we should at least hear that if there is training for the purposes that you are talking about now, then what will happen to the training that exists now and why a new course for which there is already a solution in the current structure is needed. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-29-278	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak out of the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State has indicated his wish to speak. Secretary of State L. Simon László, please.
u2015-06-29-279	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you that no new aspects or opinions have been raised here in the final debate today in relation to the general debate, the detailed debate and the debate on the Legislative Committee. I would therefore not like to respond substantially to what has been said, but simply to say that what I have said during the general debate, in the detailed debate and in the Legislative Committee, where there has been a longer polarity in relation to the whole of the bill and the amendments, I am maintaining and asking my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill, together with the amendments supported by the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-280	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The T/5053. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2015-06-29-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 LXXVII on World Heritage. T/5053. and the seven-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture, which included mainly text-focusing and language-positioning corrections. In addition to the Commission's amendment, the Legislative Committee made its own amendment, which also contains textual clarification. These amendments were adopted by our committee by 21 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions. World heritage is the common treasure of all mankind, and it is our duty to preserve it, because just think that we are talking about treasures such as the historical wine region of Tokaj-Hegyalja. Sadly, we ourselves are witnessing the irreversible destruction of which, for example, in other lands, continents, such as ancient Eastern monuments, are victims today. [[20.10]] These world heritage sites can no longer be seen by future generations, which is why there is a particular responsibility to protect Hungarian world heritage sites and to show the world in their entirety. The Hungarian government is also leading the world in protecting our eight heritage sites in Hungary. He has not only joined the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the World's Cultural and Natural Heritage, but is among the first in the world to create an independent law that integrates and defines the protection of our country's outstanding natural and cultural values in the domestic legal system. On 14 June 2011, the Hungarian Parliament adopted LXXVII of 2011 on the World Heritage without voting against. Law to establish comprehensive rules for world heritage sites, sets out the principles of the management of national world heritage areas, the budgetary and professional policy framework for protection. Since the entry into force of the World Heritage Act, the Hungarian government has devoted significant budgetary resources to protecting and managing our world heritage sites, thus setting an example for the world. Dear House, The main aim of this bill is to simplify procedures, taking into account the experience so far, to avoid unnecessary costs and burdens, so that the citizens of our country can be proud of the title of the World Heritage Label, and that locals should not consider it an unnecessary restriction. Through the amendment of the law, the protection of world heritage sites is highlighted, and the use of promissory sites is limited to a minimum. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 21 votes in favour, 3 against and 5 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. In that case, I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have been notified in writing, first of all to Mr László Kiss, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-29-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Socialist Group abstained from voting. The basic reason for this was that we did not see clearly about the bill. While there is no doubt that there are elements of this proposal that I must say that I do not think are initiatives from the devil. The first is whether it is necessary to redefine the rules on world heritage sites. I am not necessarily convinced, as opposed to the author, that this is necessary, but I do not think that this direction is from the devil. After all, it seems obvious to me that, given that it is a different place than a world heritage site, it is also perfectly natural that rules can be made that undoubtedly define these two different things in two ways. Just as I am not necessarily convinced that this proposal, which is before us, serves the objectives set out in the explanatory statement, but again I can only say that I do not consider those directions which are largely formulated in the proposal to be the devil's idea. It is well known that the proposal states that, in many cases, there are significant sources of administrative activities that do not directly contribute to the preservation of the nature of the monuments or the cultural goals for which they have become promissory sites. Therefore, I also think that the direction that is about paying administrative costs only when it is absolutely necessary is, in my view, a good direction. So I have to say that this is why I am a little bit of a sceptical about the proposal, because I do not see it quite clearly, we do not see it quite clearly, but I can tell from its directions that it does not use approaches from the devil. All the more so, it does not use the approach of the devil, because the ten sites the government has put forward, I must say, in many cases it contains very good solutions. All I need to think about is the borders of the Roman Empire, the boundaries of limes, or the exploration of limes, which I think is in everyone's interest in being seen as a landmark in the world's heritage. After all, we are talking about a contiguous Roman value, a Roman treasure, which, in effect, I must say, may give the country an opportunity along the entire Danube line to be introduced to foreigners, and not just to my own constituency, the III. I am talking about the district, where the remains of the limes, besides other Roman ruins, I must say, are found in a considerable number, but we can think of the ruins that remain in the areas of Esztergom or Visegrád. So I must say that there are certainly directions to this proposal that are worthy of support. We have suggested that consideration should be given to ensuring that the sites of the future are protected in the same way as world heritage sites. This has led to a debate between the pro-government representatives and us. This is a valid debate, because the part of what Mr Secretary of State said in the debate is also real, because just because everyone wants to protect a landmark, it is not certain that this location will be protected. Indeed, it is very easy for everyone to wish to secure the world heritage site, but these sites are being destroyed for third reasons. It is therefore important to draw attention to the fact that it is a very important task for local governments and, where appropriate, the caretaker of the sites to preserve these world heritage sites, both by the legislator and by world heritage sites. Obviously, this is not just about these built sites, these sites can be besides structures that need world heritage protection, and daily pollution can also cause significant damage here. I therefore think that, although I have not been able to convince myself that it is absolutely this regulation that serves these objectives best, I am sure that I have no quarrel with the rapporteur that this is a possible idea of the objective. I ask for some patience on the part of the rapporteur to really understand whether this is the most important or the most appropriate solution in this direction, since we believe, unfortunately, that the original problem, that is, that the sites, the places that really need considerable protection, unfortunately, cannot cope enough with this proposal. That is the only reason why we will abstain from voting. Moreover, we look forward to the success of both the preservation of the prodigal sites and the fact that these prodigal sites will later become world heritage sites. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-29-284	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Since he has won a gold medal not only among the speakers announced in advance, but also among those asking for the normal word, in Hungarian, no one else has applied, I ask him if he wishes to... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I am very pleased that you have accepted my opinion, and therefore no one else will come forward to speak, I will state. So I will inform the Parliament that the debate is closed. And I'm asking the Secretary of State if he wants to react. (On signal:) Here you go.
u2015-06-29-285	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Too much activity is no longer felt in the final debate, which is obviously due to the overwhelming majority of my fellow Members supporting this bill. I find it a little odd that Mr Kiss, in his long speech, has been talking about how good this bill is and what considerations we have been able to consider, and then concluded his speech by saying that they will abstain. After this long introduction, I would have liked my socialist fellow Members to vote in the same way as the technical amendments to the bill, which are obviously technical amendments agreed with the international organisation, as they did at the time when the law was adopted. Overall, I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have indeed been motivated by the aspects that our fellow Member Kiss has rightly pointed out. [[20.20]] In particular, it is a choice of cost-effective solutions that clearly treat taxpayers' money as consciously and carefully as possible. That is why I am asking for the support of my fellow Members, confident that tomorrow, as many as possible, will vote for this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-286	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXX on asylum. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the Act. Antal Rogán, Lajos Kósa, István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz, representatives submitted T/5136. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] No, the congressman's signaling. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. (To be indicated:) The government says no. After that, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee. Here.
u2015-06-29-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee discussed the T/5136 at its meeting on 24 June 2015. LXXX of 2007 on asylum. a proposal to amend law, initiated by my fellow Members Lajos Kósa, Antal Rogán and Szilárd Németh. According to the unanimous position of the Defence and Police Committee, the bill is necessary, as only last Friday, 1516 illegal immigrants were detained by the Hungarian police in Hungary. At the beginning of the month, we were shocked that this figure was around 500-600 people every day, but last week, on Thursday, Friday, the number of illegal immigrants was over a thousand every day. If this trend continues and we do not act in the defence of Hungary, by stopping the migration of people caused by the cruelty of mainly Asian and African terrorist forces, it will seriously jeopardise the security of our country and will have almost imperceptible consequences. At the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, the Minister of State of the Ministry of Interior informed the Committee that the wallet supported the current proposal. Minister of State Tasnádi also informed the Committee that the Hungarian Government is complying with all European legislation on this issue, registering and supplying immigrants, but we are running out of reception capacity. Only illegally arriving in Hungary this year represents the population of a medium-sized Hungarian city. In view of this, we need all the legal solutions that can address this problem. This is what the current proposal is intended to do, that immigrants who enter Hungary from a safe transit country are in no way entitled to political asylum. By adopting a list of safe third countries of origin and safe third countries, asylum applications from those countries can be considered as unfounded more easily and more quickly, as current data support this fact that these applications are unfounded. Several European countries apply the list of safe countries, and the EU directives give Member States the opportunity to do so. With the adoption of the proposal, Austria, Luxembourg, Germany and Hungary could also use this legal option. Dear Parliament, During the detailed discussion, the Committee concluded that T/5136/1. The amendment proposed by the representatives of the European Parliament was aimed at abandoning the whole of the bill. That's why the house rules are 40. § (3) to (4) was declared not to be negotiated by the committee, and for the same reason it cannot be put to the vote. The Parliament's Defence and Police Committee unanimously supported the current proposal and we support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - (paragraph 4) was declared inadmissible by the committee, and for the same reason it cannot be put to the vote. The Parliament's Defence and Police Committee unanimously supported the current proposal and we support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2015-06-29-288	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, the first of which is Mr László B. Nagy, Member Fidesz. Here.
u2015-06-29-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The number of asylum seekers in Hungary increased 20 times between 2012-2014. Compared to this, there was a significant increase in 2015. Today more than 60 000 people have crossed the Hungarian border almost exclusively in an illegal way, and it is expected that 100 to 150 thousand border crossings will take place by the end of the year due to the appreciation of refugees in Serbia on the southern part of the border. The majority of immigrants crossing the green border come from a safe country of origin, yet they try to abuse their refugee status. It should be possible for the authorities not only to examine the country of origin of the applicant but also to examine what the transit country was. If the life and freedom of the refugee is not at risk or is not at risk of serious harm, it is not justified to grant refugee status. In Csongrád County, in the southern part, in most of my constituency, the Sandbacks are the worst in the country. For us people on the southern border, the issue of border security is even more important than anywhere else. Legal action against a large number of illegal, illegal foreigners is now essential. Today, on Monday morning, the police aggregated the number of people who committed border violations on the weekend, which was 3287, one of the greatest numbers of all time, which has happened in Hungary so far. The previous weekend averages have been around 1500 and 2000 in the last few weeks. By the way, according to police reports, the police dealt with five human smugglers and 12 main authentic acts. By the way, the largest group crossed the Hungarian border illegally on Sunday - 81 Syrian citizens - at Röszke. The people living near the border personally told us that migrants in settlements, fields, fields, land in several places around Asotthalom, Morahalom, and that they trampled the grain hundreds of meters long, destroyed agricultural equipment, lay themselves overnight, clothes, various articles of equipment. In addition to the economic damage, renovated farmhouses, which used to serve peaceful rest, have become unlivable, and the vast majority of people, who have a farm there, do not dare to sleep outside at all at night, and do not dare to approach their possessions during the day. Despite the fact that there hasn't been a serious crime yet, people's perception has turned to terrible negative. By the way, there are a few thousand people living in these settlements - Röszke, Mórahalm and Asotthalm, by which I mean - and there are a considerable number of people living in the farm environment, who meet hundreds of refugees every day, night and day while they go to work, and they find it difficult to deal with all their troubles. [[20.30]] They find it difficult to approach their farms on the slopes and, therefore, to restrict Hungarian people in the execution of their work and normal lifestyles. By the way, the population can no longer stand refugees, immigrants, but the situation, and they do not know what will happen next, what will happen to their job, the future of their place of residence. By the way, the mayor of Szeged, László Botka's statement from our MSZP mayor, which he gave last time that Szeged was not affected by the refugee flood, that is not entirely true, because on the 24th of Szeged - those who are Szeged - who are not - obviously know, I say - until the flood monument, the police stopped 668 refugees, immigrants who committed illegal border crossings, and this flood monument is almost in the city centre of Szeged. I believe that this is an urgent issue that needs to be resolved. In any case, the majority of people arriving for livelihoods are not refugees, and the EU rules on smuggling people seem to be very, very favourable. I would like to say that mayors complain that more and more cars with foreign registrations are waiting for refugees on roads near the border or on otherwise inferior roads, who are practically not even meeting Hungarian law enforcement, but are trying to leave the border section by practically jumping into the cars after the crossing. I think that this issue raises all kinds of security risks. I would like to add that, at the last EU summit, an agreement was reached on the separation of refugees in need of help and economic immigrants, which has been mentioned here several times today and in recent weeks. It was also agreed that this separation should, if possible, take place outside the EU's borders or at least in the front countries. We know that according to the latest information, two countries, Italy and Greece, are registered as front countries. Hungary has decided not to apply for a status in the front, as most of the refugees come from other EU countries. EU leaders have seen the need for a geographically comprehensive approach to asylum. It is necessary to keep those who are not entitled to asylum away from the territory of the Community. To this end, cooperation should be established with the issuing and transit countries. It has been said that it is everyone's own duty to protect borders. Hungary will protect its southern borders, but at the same time it pointed out that the temporary border closure cannot be directed against Serbia, and it is not aimed at the Serbs. This is EU information that Hungary can expect special treatment in the near future in the case of refugees. Of course, the people and Hungarians who live there will also act on the principle of solidarity, and those who are proven to be refugees must be protected. In Hungary, all Hungarian MPs, governments, government members, all politicians and public figures must represent the interests of the Hungarian people, so we must declare and defend the Hungarian cultural heritage, and we must represent the democratic traditions of Europe. Finally, let me remind you once again that the people in the southern border welcomed the government's decision to build a temporary technical lock on the border, i.e. ten metres from the border to Hungary. This temporary facility is expected to contribute up to four metres in length to the end of this blissful state in Hungary, along the southern borders, and it is even more joyful that the government has allocated HUF 6.5 billion to this plan financially. Engineering preparations are in progress, by the way. These legislative amendments will serve to build this lock as soon as possible and allow Hungarian people to live their lives safely in Hungary. Finally, I would like to thank the mayors of Röszke, Mórahalom, Asotthalom, the citizens of the Civil Guard, for putting up with it and doing everything they can to ensure that these administrative procedures are smooth and that this problem, which is likely to continue for a very long time, can be dealt with in a manner worthy of people. One more addition is that since summer is coming, the heat is coming, next week temperatures are expected to be above 30 degrees, the situation at our southern borders is very dangerous. Those who cross the border illegally throw away their underwear on the Hungarian side of the border, throw away the rest of their food, clothes, shoes, and, from an epidemiological point of view, the authorities must be aware that they pose an increased threat to the population during the summer period. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-290	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Next announced speaker, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-29-291	Mr President, Dear House, Today's news on the Alpha News Portal and elsewhere, which reports that so - called refugees armed with sticks, stones, bricks, and concrete pieces, have erupted on Highway 471, where approaching cars were attacked. So this is the world of migrants, respect for the exception, because there are real refugees among them, people who come here from real persecution, and I claim, I confess, that we must extend our hand in their direction for human, humanitarian and other reasons. This can't be a debate between us. However, it can be seen that many elements make themselves completely unidentifiable before crossing the border. We have seen this on several occasions during our personal visits to the dug-in, the identification papers in the form of torn-up little pieces of paper, documents lying in the border zone, and a lot of migrants consciously choose the way that Hungarian authorities do not know about it, so that their identity is not revealed. It can be seen that there is now a kind of rebellion in the Szeged area because they wanted to take pictures of people and take fingerprints from them. It is quite simply unacceptable for Hungary to be hit by a population-proportionally certain that the biggest burden of the problem that the United States of America has caused is partly a demographic surplus in the regions concerned. But we can still see that today in Debrecen the better representative of Csanád Kőszeghy there, Ábel, almost had to flee from the horde of angry migrants, creates a perfectly unacceptable situation. And it creates a situation in Hungary where we are talking about our mere self-defense, which is why the proposal before us may not be a coincidence that a substantive amendment could not have been tabled. There's a guy who came here to take it back or put it all out of business. But I am amazed at the phenomenon that there are political forces calling themselves liberals who have conducted the most disgusting, disgusting, gastric campaign against our Hungarian brothers living across the border a little more than ten years ago, and now the same forces or at least a good part of them are campaigning to install, integrate migrants, give them social housing in Budapest, give them long-term voting rights, and in connection with the refugee hostel in Debrecen, from which a raging horde now erupted, and against law-abiding citizens - so it is criminals, let us state this - there the organisation that has shown solidarity for migrants has awarded them because the TV room is supposedly uncomfortable. This is today's Hungary, this amazing duality, where the responsibility of those who have hatched against our Hungarian blood on countless occasions cannot be undermined, and for the sake of those who arrive here, who are often unidentifiable, they make claims that are completely unsuitable in all European and Hungarian ways. I would also like to mention, in the voice of thanks, those field guards, such as the field guard in Digotthal, which has only three members, but hundreds of migrants have been detained when they have been caught up in acts that are clearly in conflict with Hungarian law. [[20.40]] It is illegal to cross the border in itself, but let us accept that there are people from far away, tired, broken people who are not, let us say, put down at the border crossing point, and let us try to believe that many people do not know where the border crossing is. However, we must say that it is very interesting that when we learned of 1517 illegal border crossings in a short period of time, in a day or two, we saw that at the border crossing point we saw 0, i.e. zero migrants, so that they would seek refugee status in the long term. So László Toroczkai and his three-man field guard at Asotthalom are exposed to the flood - I myself, when I was on a tour with them a little more than a week ago, we encountered some 20-man group of Congoleses, who are very aggressively surrounding the cars, demanding free taxi services from them, taking over the residents of the farms. As long as they ask for water, it is something to satisfy an understandable human need, but when they are already aggressively hindering the local farm dwellers in their daily lives, we say that intervention is needed. And the government should also intervene in the case of a panic-like flood of fence construction. We ourselves, with the delegation of the national and local leaders of Jobbik, visited the area of Magyarkanizsa, the outskirts of Asotthalom, Szeged, where migrants are approaching in groups of 50 at night, and indeed we have seen that the fact of the panic-like flood is confirmed by refugees themselves. So the news of the fence construction has reached them, and indeed, it has accelerated their movement at such a rate that the Hungarian population living there complains on both sides of the current border that their farms are being proffered, their crops are being stolen, but they also steal the clothes they want to hang and dry. So we have a situation where we really need to intervene. In the light of today's events in Debrecen, this has become more urgent than ever. We therefore say that, yes, it may and must be designated third countries, even transit countries, which are safe, should not accept the clauses resulting from the Dublin Convention, according to which, where appropriate, everyone should be taken back unconditionally. We also say that the government's estimates were exaggerated when it tried to say that between 160 and 200 thousand people could be the amount of migrants to be deported that could reach our country in a few years. We consider this to be extreme, because fortunately, if someone reads the relevant passages of the Dublin Convention, they will find that after a five-month confirmed period, the responsibility for treatment can be transferred to the western country, automatically after a one-year stay. But we also say that the remaining few thousand or one or two ten thousand migrants to be deported here are as much more than they need to be. So we don't want to take three people in here and settle them down. Therefore, Jobbik rejects all quota-like solutions. And in the context of this debate, we also request the Government to clarify its position on the Dublin Convention, whether it requests a temporary temporary exemption, whether it will put up a full board for Hungary. And obviously, it is now a natural need for every single voter to know what a series of actions he can expect from the government in connection with events such as the one in Debrecen, how to prevent raging hordes from breaking out of a refugee hostel and ending the civilian population that is unprepared for such events. Therefore, the objective security and subjective security of citizens must also be protected. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-292	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asks for the floor as a normal word applicant. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-293	Mr President, Dear House, Given that no one else is making use of the opportunity to speak, I would like to add a few more thoughts to the list of topics to be discussed in the future. We also see that while some liberal organizations are protesting to make the TV room more comfortable at the refugee shelter, we, the right-wingers, are protesting most to shut down refugee hostels within the inhabited area, called open hostels. Today's event is quite simply yelling at the closure of these institutions. There is no reason why citizens should be allowed to be contacted freely by persons among whom they are unidentifiable and criminals, unfortunately. It can also be seen that there is a church and school in the 200-metre radius of the partly open refugee hostel in Balassagyarmat, and it is now reported that a kindergarten will be built in that area. So we would like to prevent events in Debrecen, today, from forming or culminating elsewhere. And after all, we want to make sure that people like the western European 700, so where indigenous, indigenous people can't set foot, because we are talking about the suburbs dominated by migrants, in Hungary they shouldn't be created in Debrecen, Balassagyarmat or anywhere else, because in the long run this whole debate is about the fact that there are refugees who need help, and we want to help them in the future, but there are also people who would take everything away from us, everything that means our identity, everything that generations have fought for in Hungary. And we have a dog's duty to ensure that Hungary does belong to Hungarians. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-294	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask you again if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Lajos Kósa, nodded, I pressed the button.]] I can see it. [[Defiance.]] Congressman's got the floor.
u2015-06-29-295	I knew Mr. President wouldn't miss my signal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to say a few things about the bill. Before that, for the sake of accuracy, because it was said in the debate: the events that took place today in the refugee camp in Debrecen are real, but did not quite happen as Dániel Z. Carpathian said. There's no room for any TV room. And Dániel Z. Kárpát, who is a very experienced, well-known politician, knows precisely that the Internet is only suitable for information in life after extremely strong and thorough source criticism. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: That's why I read alfahir.hu.]] For example, as we know, Elvis Presley is alive and Zámbó Jimmy lives on the Internet. [[Defiance.]] So let's be careful of this, because as a representative in Debrecen, I have had the opportunity to get information from the local authorities, partly from the Members who live there, and I can tell you that the phenomenon is no less worrying even if we know the facts. Because it wasn't the size or offer of the TV room that caused the conflict. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: No one said that! You've got it all wrong. You've got it all wrong.]] but that those in the refugee camp were in conflict with each other after a material dispute, and in the heat of the dispute one of the refugees who was a Turkish... Anyway, listen: one of the refugees who was Turkish. You see, from Turkey; there is no war, there is no danger zone, and even Turkey, as we know, is moving to regional positions, and we hear very little of good reports about the prosperity of the Turkish economy. So one Turkish refugee - so much for the composition of the refugees - got into an argument with an Afghan, took the Koran out of Afghan's hand, and started a storm of which the hundreds of Muslims in the camp really wanted to lynch the Turks; and in this connection the situation was misunderstood that after hundreds of people wanted to lynch the Turks fleeing into a building in the refugee camp, and that Turk was quite rightly rescued by the Hungarian police, because otherwise it would have been a matter of lynching up to his head, the Muslims then attacked the Hungarian police because they thought they wanted to protect the Turks, even though they had only arrested the Turk. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's a different thing. I'm sorry.]] Then they calmed down, fought with the police, used police force, used a gas curtain against the residents of the refugee camp, a group of 100 people broke out on road 471, the road was blocked, the cars passing by were thrown indiscriminately, and one or two trash cans were set on fire. And it was only when a delegation of rebel Muslims convinced the Debrecen police that the Turk had been arrested by the Hungarian police and that he had not been rescued and released. Furthermore, the police have also proven that the Turks apologize for treading on the Koran. And then everyone calmed down and went home. This, by the way, explains very well the problem of a mass illegal border crossing into our country, without any internal structure, in which there is an amazing conflict with each other... - earlier in the Debrecen refugee camp, in connection with a basketball game, an immigrant was beaten to death by immigrants, otherwise, do not be misunderstood, so they were fatally abused, I mean. [[20.50]] This problem, the whole series of events, clearly shows that there is a gap between the masses of immigrants coming here and the population of Europe, which cannot simply be bridged. For example, it is also said elsewhere that some immigrants, having been extremely opposed to Christianity, spit on the crosses of the road set up in Hungary in the vicinity of Debrecen, because they have tradition or some kind of custom. But not with us. These are some of the little things that I believe to be insurmountable. Therefore, we must decide what we are doing, and it must be decided now, not in twenty years' time, when there will be nothing left to decide. It cannot be overlooked that European countries, especially Western European countries, have not been able to deal with this situation from various perspectives, and, unfortunately, it is the feeling that in some areas, the management of events has already slipped out of the hands of European peoples. We do not want this to happen in Hungary. We want Hungary to be able to withstand this amazing pressure. We have tabled this legislative amendment proposal with my fellow Members to make it clear what the intention is. Our intention is to stop those fleeing for economic reasons, illegal border crossings, and not to allow them to enter Hungary. This is what this amendment to the law is about, the possibility of a safe third country being designated by the government. Before anyone takes the European Balliberal page seriously, I would like to reassure everyone that, in an earlier period, starting in 2006, the European Commission itself initiated the European Community, in cooperation, to define the concept of a safe third country, but it was not possible to implement it, so it was given back to the Member States. The possibility to designate this has not been abolished by the Member States but has been returned to the Member States, because there has not been enough energy to jointly designate it. We are now taking advantage of the right that France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Germany and other European countries have already made use of, which have defined a safe range of third countries. For the record, several other countries have defined Serbia as one of them. We give the government the authority to do so, if Parliament agrees. There has been a lot of debate on the refugee issue, and there must be a lot more to be said. I have already stressed in a previous debate that it is an extremely complex issue, and, as with all complex issues, it is completely impossible, given its nature, to bring about a single package of measures. The policy on this refugee flow requires countless steps. They are partly interrelated, but can also be interpreted independently. Giving the government the authority now to define the concept of a safe third country is a self-explanatory step; it is not enough and we do not think it is enough. It is quite obvious that Hungary must do something to speed up action against economic refugees which are clearly abusive of European law. European law makes it very clear that a person seeking asylum can apply for asylum in one country and there must wait for the examination of the application. Compared to this, the vast majority of refugees in all countries submit applications and do not wait for the examination of the application, but, destroying the relevant documents goes on to the next country and there also pretends to have applied for political asylum for the first time. It is entirely legitimate to put an end to this abuse of right and to those who have already applied for political asylum in another country, but have not waited for its result, and in Hungary they are seeking political asylum again, or, where appropriate, several times in Hungary, we are sending it back to the country from which they came without any complicated procedures, because they are not practicing in good faith, but they have already abused the possibility that asylum gives them. Similarly, we believe that other measures are necessary. We talked about implementing the secure border closure at the Schengen border, where we are not defending the Hungarian-Serbian border, but the Serbian-Hungarian, Serbian-Czech, Serbian-German and other borders, as this is the Schengen border. We need to take a number of steps, let me not list some of them, Mr President, but simply ask that this small step be supported by Parliament, so that we can move forward on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-296	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and certain laws relating to public employment and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The T/4451. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. You have up to 8 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 25 June 2015 discussed the T/4451 on the registration procedure and the amendment of certain laws relating to public employment. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the 13-point amendment proposal of the Judicial Committee in the background, as well as the ruling party proposal No 1 of the Legislative Committee. The purpose of the bill is to transfer the necessary changes since the introduction of electronic registration and to incorporate the registration of the father's recognition declaration into the register. Based on the experience gained since the introduction of the e-book, it expands the scope of concepts used in the registrar administration. In view of the operation and legality, the law defines the procedure in detail, and also provides for the range of persons entitled to be removed from the register upon request. It further clarifies the powers of the bodies, persons involved in the civil status administration and the rules on jurisdiction. The amendment on public employment extends the field of public employment and extends participation in the labour market service organised in the context of public employment. With this amendment, we want to settle the conditions for granting freedom. The maximum duration of unpaid leave is increased to 120 days by the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-298	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum timeframe of seven minutes. Congressman László Kiss, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-06-29-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For several reasons, we were unable to support the proposal before us. The first is the substance of the matter, but there is also a formal part. I'd like to start with the contents. [[21.00]] The rules on e-registration were also created by the previous government, a socialist government, and therefore, as appropriate, the proposals aimed at reviewing them, we take it positively, given that time has passed over everything, and it is right to improve things. It is enough to think only of the beginning of the general debate, and I do not want to take the bread of Ritter's ethnic advocate, he is quite plastic and, if you will accept it from me, cleverly argued that there are still directions to be improved here. So I think it is right for Parliament to deal with this matter. But let's just say that we did not have the conviction during the debate that this proposal closes all the gates that should be closed and actually solves the problem of electronic registration, which is simply a problem because, although this system was created by the socialist government at the time, it has been rewritten several times since then, and in many cases, those who should apply this legislation will basically take these new and new transcripts as a problem. The other issue dealt with in the bill is certain issues relating to public employment. We have more problems here. One of the things the Socialist Party has been saying for a long time is that we want the public workers not to be pariahs, not to be outcasts of the world of work, but to receive the permissions, even if they are not too big permissions, which are otherwise granted to all workers by the Labour Code. Well, in this matter, if you like it, this proposal is certainly a step forward, which is before us, but it is still very far from being able to say that a public employee has the same licenses as any other employee provided by the Labour Code, even if these rights are not too significant. This is where we get to the formal part of the thing. In his mystery book, the boiler blacksmith and ballerina are remembered by everyone, and here we can see that we have before us a salad of a civil status procedure and a law on public employment, which is especially good, in the light of the fact that in a few items on the agenda, the House will be lucky to discuss another public employment law. So what we're talking about is that we have a salad that will talk about two areas far from each other, and in a few minutes we're going to be arguing about another law, which, by the way, includes one of the laws that we're talking about. If someone doesn't understand why this is here, it's not in the device, it's in the presentation. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur said that it was indeed the case that these two legislative proposals were not presented at the same time. We think it's definitely a mistake. It is also a mistake because it can indeed be said that it contradicts all the criteria of the law on legislation and that common sense is also contradicted by the fact that we are talking about two laws which are not in any way compatible. So when I make two types of criticisms at the same time, the superficial observer may think that I am really out of my mind, because what the birth process has to do with the public. It's a bit of a situation, if you recall, I apologize for putting Hidden Again, when it comes to getting a paper clip, a piece of gloves and a tennis racket for legionaires, and what to use them for. Well, with the paper clip, you can attach one piece of gloves to the tennis racket. We can still be part of similar debates, I think. It would therefore be more appropriate for the government to start a predictable legislation at the end of the second year of their third term. We also consider this important because it is quite simply ridiculous. So it's ridiculous when they throw things together that can't be matched. Please take legislation more seriously. You programme this activity in advance, prepare a legislative programme. In my view, Parliament has the right to expect that laws that really belong together will be linked. We also said this criticism on the Legislative Committee, and we continue to maintain that it was an unfortunate solution. I ask you to make sure that this does not happen, because this practice is unworthy of the legislation of this House. Thank you for listening. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-06-29-300	Thank you very much. The content of the speech by the Member is not modified, the author quoted is composed of stone carvings and ballet dancers, for the sake of historical fidelity. [[László Kiss: Excuse me.]] So now we're moving on, and I'm going to ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[Tibor Scone says no.]] Secretary of State says not this time. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here.
u2015-06-29-301	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary dealt with the first part of the bill No 4451 on the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and of certain laws relating to public employment, the first section of the first 40 paragraphs, the registration procedure. I would like to present our committee's opinion on this. Nationalities living in Hungary are named directly in the bill 15. Paragraph 2 of the Act refers to the fact that Atv is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board 46. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 shall be replaced by the following: The status of the nationality family name and the nationality first name not included in the nationality first name register shall be governed by the position of the national minority self-government concerned. The national minority self-government concerned shall state its position within 30 days of the request. The first name, the registration of which has been approved by the national minority self-government concerned, shall be entered in the nationality first name list. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This amendment provides for a continuous update of national minority names and extends the competence of national minority self-governments, in addition to nationality names, to the resolution on the registration of the nationality family name, which is agreed and supported by our committee. We hope that this opportunity will increase and simplify the requests for change of name in which nationality residents or their descendants who, at the pressure of law, physical or spiritual pressure, reclaim their original nationality names in previous decades. It's 15. I would like to state, in general, that the fundamental aims of the amendment and their proposals for solutions are agreed and supported by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I would like to highlight among these the 12th bill. § (1) which settles the uniform treatment and registration of two-member family names with or without hyphens, since the use of the double family name is more common than the average in ethnicity, including due to the already mentioned names taken back. We also agree on the 12th. Paragraph 2, according to which, if a parent is not a Hungarian citizen, the director of the registry may, at the request of the parents, register the first name of the child in the register in accordance with the rules governing the non-Hungarian citizen concerned, as this also occurs more frequently than the average in the case of Hungarian nationalities. The birth certificate records the most beautiful, wonderful milestones of man's life - birth, marriage - and in the end it records his death and his earthly passing. Exactly two months ago, during the general debate, as László Kiss mentioned, I told you in detail, and in a bit of a flicking of the house rules, I illustrated to you an absolute intimate, personal ethnic story, the essence of which was that my son Gergely Ritter, born on 24 February 2005, had to go through a four-year Calvary in order for my son, who has been a German nationality of German parents for ten generations, to receive a German nationality certificate. Another question is that my son is probably the only one in Hungary today, who has three different original authentic birth certificates at the same time: a Hungarian language, a trilingual so-called alien and a German nationality. I told you all of this at the time because we have before us a law and an amendment to the law, according to which nationalities living in Hungary are automatically entitled to the registration of nationality. On paper, at the statutory level, everything seems to be fine. [[21.10]] Paragraph 4 of the Act, which settles the uniform treatment and registration of two-member family names with or without hyphens, since the use of the double family name is more common than the average in ethnicity, including due to the aforementioned names taken back. We also agree on the 12th. Paragraph 2, according to which, if a parent is not a Hungarian citizen, the director of the registry may, at the request of the parents, register the first name of the child in the register in accordance with the rules governing the non-Hungarian citizen concerned, as this also occurs more frequently than the average in the case of Hungarian nationalities. The birth certificate records the most beautiful, wonderful milestones of man's life - birth, marriage - and in the end it records his death and his earthly passing. Exactly two months ago, during the general debate, as László Kiss mentioned, I told you in detail, and in a bit of a flicking of the house rules, I illustrated to you an absolute intimate, personal ethnic story, the essence of which was that my son Gergely Ritter, born on 24 February 2005, had to go through a four-year Calvary in order for my son, who has been a German nationality of German parents for ten generations, to receive a German nationality certificate. Another question is that my son is probably the only one in Hungary today, who has three different original authentic birth certificates at the same time: a Hungarian language, a trilingual so-called alien and a German nationality. I told you all of this at the time because we have before us a law and an amendment to the law, according to which nationalities living in Hungary are automatically entitled to the registration of nationality. On paper, at the statutory level, everything seems to be fine.21.10 In practice, however, it took four years of fighting to make use of this, and if I, who was aware of the legal background, who was the deputy president of the national minority self-government, who, from the time of the independent nationality ombudsman, mobilized all the existing powers, took four years to achieve this, then it must be said that this part of the law does not work in Hungary. In the last two months, my fellow speakers and I have looked into and verified that today the central electronic system exhibiting the birth certificate is suitable for the issue of the nationality certificate in Hungarian and ethnic languages for all 13 nationalities living in Hungary without any substantial extra work. Nevertheless, the concrete practical experience of the last two months still shows that the majority of the civil servants concerned are unaware of this and are not aware of the issue of nationality registers, so that the interests of nationalities living in Hungary will continue to be significantly affected in the implementation of the law. We therefore call for the urgent action of the wallet responsible for implementing the law to be taken to ensure compliance with the law and its implementation. Thank you for listening. Danke für ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2015-06-29-302	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, MSZP, who indicated in writing his intention to speak. Here.
u2015-06-29-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, From the very first moments when this draft law was presented, one thought about what links the matters of the birth certificate and the public employment. I looked and searched, I couldn't find it then, and now the story is not ripe for this period. It is simply that things that are not connected without a logical bond appear within the framework of a particular draft law. I'm not saying it's unconstitutional, in the system of lawmaking it's practically unprecedented, but I can say with a calm spirit that it's a lazy attitude, I can tell you that it's a brazen attitude. I could say a lot of things with your speech, because within the framework of the legislative programme, when they started, one was marked as a bill to be presented independently, if I remember correctly, under number 42 and the other under number 43. But that's just the way life is. That's how you've washed up these two stories, the story about the system of civil status and public employment. From July 2014, if my memories do not deceive me, the electronic registry system is given. As my fellow Member László Kiss said, there were virtually excuses in terms of form and content within the framework of the TAB. I'd rather talk about the content part, not much about the forms. There I might add so much comment that I was able to discover one thing that links these two stories, by the way, by the Ministry of the Interior itself, or I say, Sándor Pintér, or whatever I say, so these bonds include this draft law, that's the bond, but it seemed to me in itself too little. I would like to open up the public employment part a little bit, not the administrative changes that have already been mentioned here in part, in the context of the general debate. As far as public employment is concerned, I would like to recall, in particular, the part of you, including my fellow Member, Kósa, that has happened in the last five years. You know, my fellow Member, because you use the numbers so well, only the wrong ones, that in 2010, before the change of government, you took 60 200 forints a month; you also know that you gave them a wonderful, 47 thousand forints of money. You know the words of Marcell Zsiga, he was there when they were said. So, what I would like to say is that that money today is not much more than 51-52 thousand forints in hand, but in purchasing power, you know that it is worth 40-42 thousand forints, in Hungarian, your glorious two-thirds government has taken away one third of the purchasing power value of these people's wages. Only when he talks about the labour market and boasts that public workers should always appear in his head, in his thinking, in his brain, that these people, indeed, have lost one third of the purchasing power of their wages, thanks to you. The other part, which should appear, is that since you, unfortunately, cannot ensure that this magnitude, i.e. a group of people of the order of 200,000, is doing value-creating public employment activities, unfortunately, it causes a lot of people to dislike it, and that is not good. Not good, because a person who does monotonous work alongside machines for eight hours is not good if he looks at people who work in the public sector as not doing value creation work, and therefore not just that money, but even half of it is not worth it. These are ideas at the level of the common language, but they are more subtle than they are. Unfortunately, in general, you have painted, in a sense, an enemy image by people in another segment of the world of work. This isn't good, we should straighten this track. Rather, the aim should be to enable those who are in public employment to engage in value-creating activities, and that if they can do so, they will receive the money that is now expressed as a minimum wage in Hungary. I don't even want to talk about how the minimum wage should reach the minimum wage, at least what you now wish to remove from the use of words, they don't want it to be clear and clear, how the minimum wage will separate from the minimum wage, how the scissors will open in this respect. With regard to the public workers, here, in the context of this draft law, when it is introduced that they can leave for a three-day term - citation sign - and remain in the state of public employment and receive wages, they are not doing a miracle, but I can also say that they are generating losses, because for a public employee to be able to work on the primary labour market, it requires not three days of this type of training, but a multitude of much longer-term courses, you know that. At a time when the 90-day period is increased to 120 days, which creates the possibility of transferring the public worker to seasonal work, the kind of slaver - put in a quotation mark - is based on the activities of the public worker, which, in another law, would be shamefully coupled with the connection of the mayor's wages, if their common sense did not arrive by the time the decision was made in these laws. So, what I'm trying to say is that you guys haven't done much good for the public. They've already taken away from them by increasing the number of people in public employment - now that I tell you the story instead of you, what they say is that instead of aid, they've given a job, no, instead of aid, they've taken a lot of people and not jobs - by kicking a lot of people out of the public sector, and then re-employing them within the framework of public employment, and employing them within the framework of various state-owned institutions, they've taken money from these people again, and they've put them in a moral crisis that you can't imagine. So, what I'd like to say is that this story should be straightened out again. One word, like a hundred, is decent work for the public workers, a decent work that combines value creation and enjoys the honor of others, decent wages for the public workers, at least the minimum wage, not the specially invented public employment wage. If you do a decent job, you will earn a decent wage for it, and security, something you didn't give us, and in 2012, through the Labour Code, you even took what it was. There is a distinction between the public workers, even in the sense that freedom of freedom is not granted to the public, and it is not the same as that of Mt. within its framework, despite raising three children, even though it has 30 years of service, they cannot be taken into account or enforced. [[21.20]] One word, like a hundred: these people should not be considered statistical subjects. Not for people who my colleague Kósa can stand up and talk about 4 million 100,000 people. True, he does not use this number, but he uses 4 million 200 thousand, which has never been employed in Hungary since the change of regime. I will help him: 4 million 100,000 people, of which, of course, more than 200,000 are employed by the public, many of whom, as I said, unfortunately do not carry out value-creating work for reduced wages. So I would like to ask you not to consider these people as statistical subjects, but as decent, working people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-29-304	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the time frame left for the factions. [[Lajos Kósa reporting.]] As a normal word suitor, Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, here you go.
u2015-06-29-305	Mr. President. Dear House, I was inspired by my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, to give some thought in this debate. Nándor Gúr mentioned the numbers. We know that the mention of numbers without the context doesn't tell us much in itself. For example, if I say that the number of people working in Hungary was last so high in the mid-eighties, then 4 million was 100 thousand, and now there are 4 million 200 thousand in work, this does not say much in itself, because in the mid-eighties the retirement age was much lower. Thus, there was no effective opportunity for people to continue in employment. It is therefore appropriate to use comparable numbers to support our arguments, not those that are not related to each other. On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of Congressman Nándor Gúr [[Nándor Gúr, taking his seat as notary: I'm listening!]] That the most insolence against the public workers and the hard-working people was when the Socialist Party organized the hunger process with Gábor Simon, who, by the way, parked hundreds of millions of forints in various foreign bank accounts. He had the guts to make a fool out of people and MSZP and Nándor Gúr, by the way. And they haven't asked for it since then, or even tried to pretend they didn't know Gábor Simon. The comparison on the part of my fellow Member was also wrong when he compared the public employment we organised with the public employment and wages organised by the socialists. It would have been right to compare social assistance, which is actually the minimum available, with public work. We were actually organizing a system where we didn't replace the former community service, but said that the person who wanted to receive aid... - 27 thousand forints, by the way, was when the socialists implemented it. Let Nándor Gúr try to make a living out of this, if he can, because they liked to say how to make a living of 47,000 plus 62,000 forints. They gave me 27 grand, and I'm sure you could make a much better living than the much higher amounts we gave you. In any case, this system must be compared to what the socialists have implemented. Socialists have always had an interest in distribution, and there is no debate. They wanted as many people as possible to base their existence on state transfers alone. We're on the job side, we've said that a lot, and we're saying that now. In connection with public employment, we strive to implement a system that not only gives human dignity to those involved in this system, because work is not a shame, but also makes these people's manual work meaningful. In many places in the country, this is how it is done. Given the fact that there are basically local governments and mayors organising public works programmes, there are certainly dozens of municipalities among the 3200 municipalities in the country where they do not touch them, and they do not organize them well. It can really make people feel bad, like the method of organizing community service. However, in most cases, local governments give these people meaningful work. This is the case when there is regular maintenance of the surface drainage system previously neglected by socialist governments when roads, public areas are maintained - and this is necessary - so well that it is felt on the village that people are working for public space in order to make the environment more normal. Or, for example, when - and this is very important - they make a general waste collection programme, which then, where appropriate, represents revenue for the company or organisation that organises the public employment in the sale of secondary raw materials. It is a value-making thing, Mr. Nándor Gúr, although I know that it is difficult for you to imagine it, because you are fond of organising political hunger sessions with croesian socialist representatives on your side rather than going among the people. I did meet with Jándon that with regard to the sale of strawberries organised under the Public Works Programme, people who did not make much money with this public works programme could still receive the proceeds from the sale of strawberries and were very proud of their work. They didn't feel they were on welfare and then the great socialist or I don't know what kind of gentlemen put money in their pockets if they put x in the right place, but they felt they were producing value. This can be experienced in many places throughout the country if you take a little notice of what is happening. As when it was, I know, astounding - in Tiszalok it was about the transformation of public works, although it was really not one of the most popular settlements, then the people employed in public work protested to keep the local government up to the public works programme. You know what I According to Nándor Gúr, people who were humiliated to death, who were deprived of their income were protesting to participate in this program to everyone's greatest surprise. It cannot therefore be said at all that the allegations that my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, would stand up to a comparison with reality. What we know and obviously must be said to everyone, in this respect I am pleased with Nándor Gúr's speech, that if the socialists govern, they will eliminate the public employment system in a moment, because they are interested in aid. It's okay, at least the voters know that when it comes down to it, then what happens, who they can expect. I therefore believe that the public employment system, which exploits people's dignity, people's ability to create value, and the improvements made in this system, must be supported. Of course, this is clearly not the case on the redistributive side only. In any case, I would ask this House to support this proposal, that is, this part of the proposal, because in my speech, I have addressed only certain issues of public employment. And the section on the birth certificate procedure, as the German minority advocate said, is a very important, symbolically very important amendment that is absolutely necessary and should be supported. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-306	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who wants to speak on the time frame reserved for the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] No. I now give the floor to Mr Koranis Laucratis, the Greek advocate invited by the nationality committee, in the five-minute time frame of the house rules. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2015-06-29-307	The Finanzιότιμε Πρόεδρε, Κυρίες και κύριοι Βουλευτές Σης ευχαριστώ πολύ ου δώσατε τον λόγο! Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Joining in what has been said by the German minority advocate who has spoken before me, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that already the Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and its amendments to the proceedings now taking place provide for the possibility for members of the nationalities living in Hungary to request the registration of their children in accordance with the rules of the language of nationality of the child to be born... [[21.30]]
u2015-06-29-308	Sorry to interrupt. Could you put your microphone up a little bit, please, because everything you're saying doesn't sound good. [[Koranis Laucratis: Good.]] Try it again.
u2015-06-29-309	Is that okay?
u2015-06-29-310	He doesn't use his own microphone, Mr. Speaker...
u2015-06-29-311	Is it possible?
u2015-06-29-312	Yeah, that's what I think is most likely from here. We'll count on that, so you can give your opinion properly.
u2015-06-29-313	There's another one...
u2015-06-29-314	In his own microphone...
u2015-06-29-315	Yeah, that's good.
u2015-06-29-316	Yeah, there's more. [[Defiance.]] But it's worth using your own.
u2015-06-29-317	That's better, yeah.
u2015-06-29-318	Here you go.
u2015-06-29-319	Then I'll start over. The Finanzιότιμε Πρόεδρε, Κυρίες και κύριοι Βουλευτές Σης ευχαριστώ πολύ ου δώσατε τον λόγο! Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. In keeping with what has been said by the German national minority advocate who has spoken before me, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although the Act I of 2010 on the civil status procedure and its amendments to be negotiated now provide the members of the nationalities living in Hungary with the opportunity to request the registration of the family name of the child to be born in accordance with the rules of the nationality language, and to give their child a first name corresponding to that nationality, and, in this context, it is also regulated that, where appropriate, the national minority self-government concerned be asked to take a position. In practice, however, there are problems with the granting of these rights, to which the law or the current amendment contains a clear provision, but those who act as administrators do not always find a solution. We ask the Government and the competent Ministry to assist in order to instruct the civil servants to contact the national minority authorities concerned in the event of questions by appropriate legislative provisions, and to contact the national minority self-government office instead of refusing to apply the rights, and to cooperate in the preparation of the civil status documents. Since the German spokesperson has given his own example, I will tell you. Similarly, when my third granddaughter was born and we asked for the birth certificate in the ethnic language, it arrived - in English. I asked for it again, now for the third month, I received a letter again to tell the registry office which Greek letter corresponds to the Latin letter on the claviculture. Therefore, I would like to ask you once again, and I would like to read once again that the civil servants should contact the offices, the offices of the Hungarian minority self-governments, and fill in and help solve this problem together. Ευχαριστώ την προσοχή σης. Thank you for the audition.
u2015-06-29-320	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] It indicates that you want to react. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The debate on the bill, both in plenary and in committee, raised a lot of general or rather general issues, and there were rather general arguments or objections to the bill. In particular, this is true of the legislative part on the civil status procedure, the amendment of which is indisputably necessary because it has become apparent in the course of the procedure introduced that the system needs to be corrected. I believe that this is one of the merits of the proposal, that the necessary corrections will be made by the government. On the occasion of the general debate, national minority advocates also stated their need, their legitimate and natural need to use the appropriate fonts in the documents as a reference to the name in the mother tongue, the introduction of this, and the use of the appropriate fonts. In fact, after the general debate, they also consulted the staff of the Ministry of Interior, and it was at least reassuring for everyone that the legislation itself clearly ensures that the necessary registration in the mother tongue takes place. I trust and even say that I say that the transformation of public administration, the related training, the enforcement regulations and their control will ensure and even guarantee that not only the law gives us this opportunity, but also in reality and in everyday life, nationalities can live. The debate on public employment once again raised general arguments and arguments concerning public employment. I believe that the provisions of the law on public employment are forward-looking and help to achieve the objective of public employment itself, according to which jobseekers can gain adequate work experience and, in addition to obtaining work experience and maintaining it at a level, acquire knowledge that will help them to work on the labour market and help them to get back to work on the market as soon as possible. The transformation will allow the period of public employment to be interrupted, whether for a short period of training or for a longer period of time, with 120 days of unpaid leave instead of 90 days, or in seasonal work, and they will find work here. So I believe that both stages of the bill are forward-looking, that the necessary amendments and corrections are being made in relation to the registration procedure, and that, in the case of public workers, we will continue to help them return to the labour market. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-322	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws to water management and fire protection and public services, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. T/4822. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor to László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/4822 at its meeting on 25 June. on the bill amending certain laws relating to the provision of water management, fire protection and public services, and in this context, the committee is the Parliamentary Decision No 10/2014 on certain house regulations 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. The purpose of the amendment is the annual LVII on water management. Act CXCVI of 2011 on national assets. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. to bring the law into line with the concept of watercraft. In addition, the rules for the management of precipitation water in the inland area will be clarified in such a way as to ensure the maintenance of trenches and the operation of water installations in the inland area of the municipality, except for trenches, canals and other drainage facilities for the dewatering of the national road and public rail, where the maintenance of the road or rail must ensure maintenance. [[21.40]] The task is, of course, not a new public task, which is being carried out by the municipalities in the context of the operation of the settlement, and now the sectoral law is being clarified. On the basis of the above, the bill proposes the provision of adequate irrigation water transfer and the inclusion of works that hinder water transit in public operations. The proposal also includes a new authorisation clause, under the Water Management Act 32/A. The new authorisation gives the government the power to lay down detailed rules for the criteria to be applied when imposing a fine and the method of payment of a fine. In addition, the annual XXXI on fire protection, technical backup and fire department. The purpose of the amendment of the Act is to ensure consistency between EU and domestic regulatory provisions. To that end, I thank you for your support. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-324	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. A minority opinion in the Committee on Sustainable Development will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, please.
u2015-06-29-325	Thank you very much for the floor. At the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I raised a number of questions to the current Deputy State Secretarys and State Secretarys. I've been given an answer, and I'm going to see if there's a similar response here, because I asked if this was the amendment to the bill, in which we're going to modify everything that disaster control is going to take over if the service doesn't work. I also asked, although fortunately they did not take the last step in the chimney sweep, yet next year how do they think that if we raise the disaster protection budget by 0.9 billion, the 6.5 billion-dollar chimney sweep sector will fit into this task. You are now changing the duration of the service provider designated for waste management, as to how long it will be possible to designate the service provider. Our problem is that just because he can be the designated provider for a longer period doesn't mean the problem is solved. The problem should be solved by you. The problem is that we are now touching all the areas that disaster control can take if disaster occurs, because you have caused disaster in these services, but that does not solve the problem, because disaster management will be able to designate exactly the same provider only in that area. What we don't understand is, if we're going to change these laws now, why can't we just do it right once? That's why I'm really asking when we can expect this to be anything that's operational and sustainable. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-326	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance, first I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP, here.
u2015-06-29-327	Thank you very much. After I asked these questions at the committee meeting, I received very frank answers on the fact that both waste and water utility services, such as all these types of services, are currently not sustainable and loss-making. And that, at the moment, ministries are looking for a solution to make these systems sustainable, stable and stable. If you know that these are not sustainable, loss-making systems now, which do not work firmly and firmly - and I think that these are the public services that affect people's daily lives, which people understand and know, even if they do not deal with daily politics. In our family, it is said that politics is in order, and that Parliament works well when it does not affect people's everyday life. These are the things that really affect everyday life, for everyone has a fundamental right to water, clean drinking water. But if you destroy water utility services and water management, which you have already done, then simply the system itself will not be able to work, will resolve the problems much slower, people will have problems when there is a pipe break, the profession will reach slower, they will be able to solve these problems more slowly. With regard to shipments of waste, in many cases we have told you that the fact that 6-7 new burdens are imposed on these operators does not make a system that has worked well long ago sustainable or even unsustainable. This weekend, I tried to get this information to you in the form of a press conference, see if anyone could finally hear me when I got the answer back that I was supporting international service providers. Gentlemen. Most of these are municipal-owned, non-profit-making companies. These mayors, your mayors, who sit in these waste companies, who consider these waste companies to be their own children, who want to do this sustainably, as they did before, for a long and long time. And now they see that their own child - as they say - is going to be ruined, and when they announce that they can't continue to do the service in the settlements, then disaster protection will designate the new provider, who will be the same company again, because there is probably no other person in the same area with a garbage truck, a tool, a man, a specialist; education and training itself would take away a lot of money, for which they could even make people who could do these jobs. So they're the company. Then you should sit with them. You should sit down with your own mayors. You're supposed to sit down with the profession and work out how to make this system work. The fact that we are pushing deadlines and then the service provider can really be designated for a longer period of time is really not going to solve this problem. In Europe, we are the only country in which tolls are to be paid to waste companies for garbage trucks. This is nonsense at such a level that I really think that in one ministry they are looking at where more taxes could be collected, more money being collected, while professionals in the other ministry are probably screaming, that gentlemen, more money cannot be taken from the sector, because it will collapse. Sometimes I feel sorry for you, because there's probably such a fight in these things that it's unbelievable. Just agree: you really have to listen to the professionals, your own mayors, who are about to raise their hands and say children, so you can't do this anymore. You must understand that there is no hurry in these matters, but as we can see, in these matters, you started to hurry when you started to modify them in the first place, and you didn't think about it properly. And now I have the answer from the Deputy Secretary of State that they will then look for solutions, but they are still very much looking for them. There's really only one thing: you have to sit down with people who know how to do it. And this will be a very quick and good solution. The only little thing that really makes me smile at this amendment is the fact that they now wish to have an EU Parliament and Council regulation adopted in 2008 as a matter of urgency. It is 2015 and we are moving a 2008 regulation into Hungarian legislation as a matter of urgency. That's really the urgency of the joke category. At least don't write it down. Thank you very much. This is the only request we have: ask your own mayors on this issue.
u2015-06-29-328	Thank you very much. We will continue the work with a speech asking for a normal word. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-06-29-329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about water management and fire protection side by side, that's understandable, unlike the former, the birthbook and public employment. Understandable, but as my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, finished his sentence, I will start with it; so what is not understood is the urgent adoption by Parliament of a 2008 EU regulation in 2015. That it takes seven years, that's amazing speed. Anyway, what the hell? The content of this is more important. What concerns the clarification of inland precipitation water management is, I think, okay, that it makes it a task for the municipalities, except for the railway and national road networks, obviously. I think it's okay. This, let us say, can also give you the kind of job opportunity that we have just talked about in terms of public employment, that it can be a meaningful activity to prevent and prevent damage that is practically a worthy activity on the stage of public employment. So there's nothing wrong with that. [[21.50]] However, I think there is a much greater problem with what my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, is once again concerned, that in terms of public service, it is obvious that there are systemic problems. So the experiences of the past two years, if we do not look further back, clearly show that there are levels of problems and problems that require systemic overthinking. They would require systemic overthinkings. So the fact that there's a dumping fee, but the fact that even when you run the roads, you have to pay a toll, you have to pay these cars, well, I don't know if you can call it normal when it comes to performing public service tasks. If the story is to destroy something, and then after the destruction, as you have done in many respects, to do a different kind of redeployment for your friends, the beneficiaries who are close to you, that's understandable, then that's clear. I always hope that it can't be all about it, it can't be all about what's been done in the last few years, either in the tobacco market or in the gambling area or in the gas area, but there's a lot to say, you know, starting from land lease contracts, through a lot of other things. I hope that this is not about or may not be about this, and therefore my naive idea is that perhaps at some point they will hear what many of us say about the opposition side, and we often say that, in terms of public services, systemic overthinking of waste transport should be done in this case. Simply so that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow - put in a quotation mark - that, even after years, if you will no longer govern, let us say, after three years, there should still be systems in place, which are in the interests of the people. Those that are sustainable, coupled with an affordable service fee, such as those behind which there is not only the foam, I can also give you a concrete example of how much more expensive the waste delivery fee is than, let's say, in 2010, where appropriate, because it was first increased and then partially reduced, but let's not go into this. I would just like to ask you to make a systematic overthink for the benefit of the people. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-330	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated his wish to speak. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The first part of the bill is the part on water management. This creates a clear situation, ensuring, on the one hand, that, in the case of watercourses, in the case of State-owned watercourses, the State ensures, under the supervision of an operator, adequate quality of maintenance, the operation of water facilities. After all, by virtue of the law, the water management board will be the contractual partner for contracts for the use and operation of water facilities. This is obviously very important in the case of high water, i.e. damage control or emergency response, and on the other hand it is clearly a very important aspect in the design of irrigation water, in the form of casting networks and in ensuring their functionality. The same is true in the case of municipalities in the municipal inland drainage of precipitation water. In fact, there was a dispute in the interpretation of the legislation in the case of road operators or in the case of the MÁV or the railway. Now it's clear who's in charge. It is very important here, however, that no additional task is installed in any direction. In the case of a water management fine, a reasonable amendment of the regulation is made. On the one hand, account is taken of the state of existence and of the existing state when imposing a fine or determining its level; on the other hand, the date of entry into force varies accordingly. In the amendment of the Fire Control Act, it is practically the adoption of European legislation, complementing that the application or adoption of the Regulation is clear without any additional regulation, but nevertheless, we considered it justified that the various categories of fire risk should be indicated in the law, so that employers, entrepreneurs, can categorize it accurately and always be connected to it, so that a clear formula should be developed in this. Much has been said about shipments of waste. Here and now, the purpose of this law is to ensure the conditions for safe and secure shipments of waste in the long term and, moreover, to protect the service providers, since together with the designation, the service provider can request 90 percent of its additional costs, which it cannot pass on to the consumer, as an advance, for ex post settlement, and subsequently receive the total additional costs. Therefore, the security of the service can be adequately guaranteed. I am convinced that the bill is eligible for all three laws, and I ask the Parliament to support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-332	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CVI on public employment and public employment and amending other laws follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The T/5141. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2015-06-29-333	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/5141 on 25 June. CVI 2011 relating to public employment and public employment and amending other laws. on the bill amending Act No 10/2014 and, in this context, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. The aim of the amendment is to facilitate contacts between public workers and employers in the primary labour market. On the one hand, it aims to provide the opportunity for as many of the public workers as possible to have a job in the framework of simplified employment and on the other hand to make it easier for employers wishing to employ in the framework of simplified employment to meet their seasonal employment needs, in particular in the field of agriculture. On the basis of the proposal, the employer may also report the labour demand to the mayors of the municipality where the intended place of employment is located between 1 May and 31 October. At the same time, the employer who employs a simplified employment relationship may, by 31 October of each year, notify the county employment body competent for the place of employment of the intended place of employment of the following year to the place of simplified employment, the number of staff to be employed and the planned schedule of employment. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Moreover, the current legislation already includes from 1 January 2015 the corresponding jobs offered by the public employment body to job seekers. We ask for support for this amendment, because it is precisely for the purpose of returning the public workers to the labour market. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-334	Welcome, fellow Members. I will ask the rapporteur if he would like to comment on the debate now. [[For signal:]] No. Thank you. The designated Committee on Enterprise Development did not draft a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to speak within the time frame on the agenda. First, Mr Nándor Gúr made a written application in advance, so I will give the floor to the Member. [[22.00]]
u2015-06-29-335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer back to our item on the agenda two years ago: public employment was also the issue. I am sorry that my colleague Kósa is no longer in the room, he told me about the litany, and then he left. [[Dr. János Fónagy: He's coming back.]] I think it would have been nice if he had stayed, because then we could talk a little bit. [[Lajos Kósa returns to the Chamber.]] Oh, I'm really glad you're back, because that way we can analyze the issue further. So the point of the thing is to be fair, fair to each other, let's say we bring to x the game that's about what the source in people's pockets means. I support, accept and acknowledge that the HUF 28 500 is more than HUF 47,000. It's a fact. Okay, one-zero. To bring the match to x, I ask my colleague Kósa to acknowledge that the HUF 60 200 plus 47,000 is less. Okay, one-on-one. Then, to make it two-one, but for no one's benefit, win-win the game, win everyone, but, above all, the public workers, I would like to ask you with great respect that from now on we should talk about how to create a situation so that as many people employed as possible can do value-creating work, and therefore, for value-creating work, we should pay, say, a minimum wage that is more than they can earn today. And in addition to these, the working conditions and the legal backgrounds that deal with them in the same way, such as the establishment of supplementary leave, etc., should be extended to them. And that's when we did a lot of things for them, and we did a lot of things to work with more productive value creation. I think if we do this, we're gonna do more than just throw a thought in each other's faces, based on a kind of approach. If that's okay, I won't talk about it again. Are you all right, Member Kósa? [[Lajos Kósa: You're confusing me with the government representative!]] Of course, well, my colleague's opinion is very important to me. All right, well, let's just look at the current bill and see what our problem is, and, if possible, let's start thinking about how to fix it. I think that it is moving to the primary labour market within the framework of the simplified form of employment - I put it in quotes - for 120 days of seasonal work, it is not good if it works for hunger, and it works for hunger, you know that, we just talked about it. It's not good, it needs to be changed. If you look at the number of days' wages placed in quotes in agriculture today, in black, grey, how, and how - what a person who goes to work one day gets in hand, I dare say with a calm spirit that it means at least 5 thousand forints; 5 thousand forints in hand. What you provide through 85 per cent of the minimum wage is a fraction of what you provide to the public in line with the agricultural activity of four months. I would like us not to create, or create, a situation without us, that will break the wage that has been waged, quoted, by employing people for hunger in simplified employment. Let us change this, at least at the minimum wage level, and let the counted daily employment wages be dominant in this regard. The other part is that if the employee terminates the relationship by termination or mutual agreement, he may be prohibited from public employment for three months under the bill. Before Mr Secretary of State starts writing, I say before I know that State Secretary Czomba has tabled another amendment on why we should not do so with regard to the common agreement that we discussed in the context of the general debate. If it is maintained, supported, I think it is not enough, but it can improve the story a lot, it can already be formed. But there's more to it than that. I would like to ask you to forget that, in particular, the wages of small-town mayors are, you know, much reduced, now you want to replace it by linking it to a type of activity that, on the basis of a milk quota, let us say, how many people will be involved in the public sector and forwarded to seasonal work. Forget it, because the story has a political taste, it's like under the supervision of the BM, they're trying to put the mayors on a short leash, and that's how they're supposed to be harnessed. It's not good, it's bad luck. It makes them vulnerable from the other side. Thirdly, if I look at the mayors not from the BM, but from the other direction, they can make him the master of everything, because on the one hand, he will tell me who they are and when they can do it. Not good, not lucky. The labour market dictates and essentially decides these processes. I would like to add two more things to that and ask you with great respect. One is that - I think I need public employment, by the way, but I'm just saying, along with value creation - if we are already spending so much money on public employment in the country, a sign of 340 billion in next year's budget, if I do not cheat on my memories, then let us make sure that we do not really do this with a multitude of people forced into the right-beds for hunger and citation. I'll give you an example. Many people are familiar with the use of the language of Hungary's gas mechanic, who, in a given year - I don't know if he was 12 or 13 - took up a dividend of HUF 800 million, while for the employment of 225 people he had HUF 157 million. It's not even a slaver, it's exploitative, and I don't know what signs of employment it is, it's very dissonant. Let them strive, let us work together to make sure that they are not friends, really not the oligarchs associated with Fidesz - no matter what we call them - the beneficiaries of this story, but the people. In order for people to benefit from this whole story, however, it is necessary that, if it is a public employment activity, it is a value-making activity, a decent wage and security, a security integrated with the labour code. For 500 HUF a day, these people will be able to be thrown around at any time, for 85 percent of the minimum wage, without carrying out the fitness tests. I don't know, it's not right, I don't think it's eligible. Don't be struck by the fact that your policy is about nothing but how and how you can exploit ordinary people in the highest possible degree. Don't be. Neither is your political interest. And I'm not thinking primarily about your political interests, but I'm looking at this story from the perspective of the people. So I say that they should do differently and do differently in this regard, because people who are forced to eat the bread of the public workers today should not live their daily lives with increasing vulnerability. These amendments should also be made in this draft law in order to ensure that this can be properly supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-29-336	I give the floor to my fellow Member, Márius Révész, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-06-29-337	Thank you very much. I would really like to comment very briefly, because I see that Nándor Gúr has tried to be constructive, and I am also trying to say constructively why we think that what we have presented is good. Honourable Congressman, We're being called to account for two different things at the same time, but these two things are conflicting. On the one hand, you socialists - and left-wing journalists - are asking that as many people as possible return from public work to the real world of work, not as public workers, but as real workers. On the other hand, they are also asking, as you have just said, that public workers be paid the same wage as they would be paid in the real world of work. [[22.10]] Honourable Congressman, I suggest you think about this, there is some contradiction, because if we paid exactly the same benefits as public workers, exactly the same minimum wage, then in this case there would be no return from public work to the real world of work. This is the way this system works, and it is our goal, too, Member, that as many as possible, not as public workers, but in the real world of work, as entrepreneurs and workers. But that's two things, if there's no incentive, they won't go back to this world. That's the system, by the way. We also consider it very important that, if these people learn about this after 10-15 years of unemployment as public workers, after 10-15 years of unemployment, we can give a number of examples of this: getting up every day, getting into the workplace, being able to work more easily in this case, especially if there is a strong financial incentive when they are in the real world of work and earning more. As a dissonant gas mechanic, we do not, then let me give a graphic example to the Member: well, it was quite dissonant that, let us say, the party representing left-wing values, let us say, Ferenc Gyurcsány was the prime minister, where, by the way, there could be a great amount of money to say, how much dividends he took in each year... - but I do not think that is really part of the debate on public workers. I stress once again: I think the point is that, preferably for everyone who wants to work, we should be able to give jobs and remain an incentive to return from the world of community service to the real world of work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-338	I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2015-06-29-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The social crisis, which is most concentrated in rural areas, is safe to say that it is not only a matter of view, but also a matter of national strategy. So let me try to clarify some of the segments of this issue here. Sándor Csoóri once said that this nation, this country, had been kept by the Hungarian countryside for a thousand years. Put your hands on your hearts and tell them honestly whether this amendment was born in the spirit of such a thought. Will it contribute to the survival of the Hungarian countryside for another thousand years and to the discussion of the Hungarian nation for another thousand years? I don't think so, by the way. No! [[Lajos Kósa: Yes!]] I really don't. I'd like to say one more thing, just to quote writers. Péter Veres, I would say the idea of a writer's head, not a false left-wing, but a true nation-national writer from the poor line in Balmazújváros. He said that the land, bread, freedom, culture, that's all there is to it, what the rural population needs, what the rural population, the Hungarian peasantry, wants. Let's see how much of this is now insured for them. My fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, has recently outlined, unfortunately with perfect precision, the sad situation of how much culture does not get to these poor layers and how far they are excluded from it. If we look at the extent to which freedom as a concept is extended, then again we can say that this is not an existing concept in the countryside, and, as my fellow Members have said here, let us say, a country mayor may have an overpower in this case, which would crush this perhaps even existing little freedom and kill him. You may not meet with such a thing, you do not meet people when you are approached by citizens who complain to Members day by day by day by the pressure they are subjected to because of simple manifestations, the existential threat they are living in. Then it can be imagined that this amendment of the law, this proposal, which would make the population of the countryside quasi-righteous, maid-servants, day laborers, what effect this would have on them. Then there's the matter of bread and earth. Well, dear fellow Members, we can talk about numbers: the net public wage is 52 thousand forints. According to the law, if they were to work on the land of a friendly oligarch in simplified employment, it would amount to HUF 59 thousand net. We're talking 85 percent of the minimum wage. Now is the time to talk about the primary labour market, only this reality does not meet. So let's say, in a region as devastated and cumulatively disadvantaged as South Somogy, to dream that these people might be able to get back into the primary labour market with this kind of depression, this is nothing more than a vain fantasy. There's no real labour market. They take away the opportunity to say, instead of the actual number of days, which, as it stands, means 5 thousand forints a day in our country, do not earn 100 or 110 thousand forints a month, but to drive to the land of an ex-communist or an oligarch near Fidesz, they must live on half of it. That's what I'm talking about, not anything else. But you can ask me a few more questions. I'd like to quote someone and see if they can figure out who said that. The strong Hungary - the rural profession, the attachment to the natural order of life - is the village's vision, the village that cherishes its porters and borders, and the family economy's vision is a man-sized enterprise. This is what Viktor Orbán said. Family economy? And do you have crowds of serfs? How do we connect this? But back when I became a member of the Somogy County Assembly, I was very pleased when the Fidesz President, Attila Gelencsér, devoted a relatively large part of agriculture in his inauguration speech, and said that half of the land was held by large owners, who gave work to 70,000 people, but on the other side there are real small and medium-sized family farmers who can employ four times as many people. And he says that anyone who prefers the big ones with support systems, laws, regulators, what has gone on so far is in favour of reducing the number of jobs. The one who does the little ones is the self-employed - attention! - self-employed small farms, backyard farms, who resuscitate the countryside in this sense, who tries to bring in manufacturing, food processing, internal market regulation, many tasks, that does nothing but create hundreds of thousands of jobs potentially in agriculture today. Well, that's it, that's the real job creation. But then we could ask some questions here, my fellow Members: where are we with these? This would be the real job. What about the Ant Ensemble? What about the help of the cooperative modes of production? That's what you should answer. Why is it that a producer who actually works for it, let's say, 10 percent of the total benefit, can put it in his pocket? All the rest disappears into the hands of intermediaries and chain dealers. And you can point out, say, for the last eight years, but you've been on the wheel for five years. This should be the first priority, and not with such pretense laws, to resolve the situation, the serious crisis that has arisen in the countryside. That's what you should think about. What we have seen in the countryside is that the ethnic presence of the Hungarian nation may have become questionable. They run away, the youth disappears, the vision you have, let's say, thus drawing out for the population left in the countryside, is not attractive. No one's gonna ask for this. As a former Reformed teacher, pastor, Bálint Arany said a century ago, he said that we were going to die and buy. And we are going to die, we are going to buy, we are going to smile on this, my dear fellow Révész, but we must look at the demographic data that, say, characterize rural regions such as South Somogy or Internal Somogy. [[22.20]] Yes, we are dying, we are buying, because there is no perspective, and this servant juice, the debauchery of the day, the holding of wages at HUF 59 thousand net is not a real alternative for young Hungarians. And then there's no wonder they're going to London to do the dishes. This is the picture of today's Hungarian countryside. Such harmful social processes have started, not in the last five years, but not in the last eight years, but before the change of regime, which is certainly, with such laws, with such regulators, make it even more difficult and even more painful for the people living there. A responsible national policy should not support such social policy measures relating to agriculture. We can't support him! Where's the backyard system... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. Where is the promise that the farmhouses will be run up, put together, and then try to put the countryside in a position? Answer that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Márius Révész: It is also a law, but it is another law.]] Where's that?
u2015-06-29-340	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa of Fidesz.
u2015-06-29-341	Mr. President. Dear House, It was an interesting debate, since Mr Nándor Gúr considered this bill to be a forward-looking bill on many points regarding the transition of those involved in public employment - and let me make a comment here: I would not say that in the world of normal work, because anyone who is doing public work all day is maintaining a drainage system, doing woodwork, working in public areas or doing useful work in municipal or state institutions is also doing real work. It's not more real than that to be involved in campaign processing in a canning factory. I would rather say that he does community service or works on a market basis. Moreover, public works and market-based work can often coincide, as not only public workers maintain public space, but also businesses that do the same work more than once. The purpose of the bill is precisely to encourage those involved in public employment and public works - it is true that this incentive is of a normative nature - to participate in market-based seasonal work if there is a supply. The fact is that in many parts of the country, public workers tend to prefer public work, even if they earn less and do not go on seasonal work. Here is the cherry season - look at the cherry-growing regions in the eastern part of the country - they don't go out to pick cherries for a net of 110 thousand forints! Here is the delicacy, and there is a concrete example that a canning factory located in Szabolcs organizes seasonal workers from 50 to 70 kilometres across the border, from Szatmár and the Értmellés, because they can't find a workforce here, because public workers said that if they lose their community worker status, they won't go to work. It is undoubtedly debatable whether the mandatory nature of this is good or not, and it is also debatable whether, if it is mandatory, this does not depress the price of seasonal work and, where appropriate, whether public workers are worse off. This needs to be looked at, because if this effect prevails, then this system needs to be reconsidered. But what is devastating is that, while you are hearing countless speeches such as what our fellow Member has just said about how the lack of prospects and the lack of opportunity affect people, there is the possibility; then it seems that we are not even in the same part of the country where people have previously said that they would like to work, but there is nothing to do when there is effective market supply, and then they do not go to work for much higher wages. This is the case now in the area of Hajdú-Bihar Ligetalja and in many areas of Szabolcs, where businesses that had been in low-cost labour have been forced to recruit workers from far away today and even from the other side of the border. That's what this is all about. It is about what my fellow Member, Márius Révész, mentioned, how, where appropriate, we can help to move the workforce into employment in public employment. By the way, the local government is choosing how to organize this. Some of these things work very well, some of them less. And my fellow Member is also right that there are places where people are driven effectively, in a very brutal way. On Verpatak there is a better-looking mayor named Zoltán Orosz Mihály - perhaps you have heard of him - who uses quite brutal medieval methods. If there's a system like serfdom somewhere, it's where people are terrified, where fear dominates the entire village. He's really acting like the mayor of his own power from the Middle Ages. You will be informed, my dear fellow Member, of the fact that you are now truly terrified of your own party. Once again, it is called Zoltán Orosz Mihály - it is worth remembering that name - this man in Érpatak. It's quite shocking what you're doing. [[Ander Balázs: Independent!]] Because now the Jobbik would like to deny the mayor of the otherwise obviously better. I understand, I understand deeply, but the thing is, you can't deny it. Perhaps you should first look around your own house to see what conditions there are when you talk about what modern - day serfdom looks like. By the way, employment figures and, in particular, agricultural employment figures are, by definition, the best improvement in rural areas - where else would they show? - which is a good thing about the fact that perhaps the future is not as terrible as my fellow Member has outlined. Although it should be noted, it is no doubt that 80 percent of the country's population resides in the territory of one hundred and eighty-some municipalities, which means that since the writers you spoke of so well, it has been nearly a hundred years, which has brought about fundamental changes in urbanization processes in the country. Hungary is actually a urbanised country. The situation is far from what was previously seen in connection with the mention of the countryside. Half the country's population lives in large cities, the capital and the 23 county-righted big city, and once again, 80 percent of the country's population lives in one hundred and eighty-some cities. These are, by the way, mostly urban settlements with a population of more than 10 thousand, or settlements with a population of no more than 10 thousand, but their historical past, their regional centre, is decisive, and they are urban settlements, although they are less than 10 thousand people. Dear House, This law does not, of course, undertake to reorganize Ant-Cooperatives or agricultural integrators, but that is not your job. Of course, with regard to this question - in the form of a nice, loud wordflower - you can still ask a lot of things that this law does not know. [[22.30]] And what about the integration of football supply academys? [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] Hello, this is the Public Employment Act. What about the Ant cooperative? [[Ander Balázs: This is not the case in the country.]] it will obviously have to be negotiated in the cooperative law. To tell you the truth, for a long time I didn't know which law my fellow Member was going to comment on, because it was so impossible to see it. [[Ander Balázs: Think in context!]] I certainly believe that everything is connected to everything, since Attila József, but it is not that much, because it is spooky to remind a man of the very usual comment at village meetings and electoral meetings when a voter says something, and then there, from the occupation of the Soviet military cars, through the blood-stained Hungarian homeland treading, everything can be heard until the position of the MAH and the ironing fellows. But in legislation, it is very important to be able to analyze what is closely related to everything. Moreover, in the context of the amendment on public employment, we are not talking about a comprehensive system change, but we are talking about how we are trying to solve the fact that those involved in public employment, if they have a job supply and a job opportunity, are not shutting down, they are shutting down for higher wages, because they remain in the system. Once again, if my fellow Member had said that this system was not a good one, because okay, let us help it out, but let it not be mandatory - there were such versions before, but it was not clear whether it was working or not, that would have been an important remark. I myself say that we should be careful, and I am in favour of this proposal, but I will be very curious about the feedback, especially with regard to seasonal work. There are still a number of seasons coming up in agricultural work, which is actually what we're looking at there. If it doesn't work well, then this needs to be changed, and we need to prepare for the next agricultural seasons so that, if possible, as few seasonal workers as possible need to be moved from neighbouring countries, because otherwise, there are people here who should be given a job. And it was especially nice that my good fellow Member, if I understood correctly, was speaking so sensitively and heartily about our fellow gypsy nations in relation to public employment, as they are involved in the public work programme, for example, in South Somogy, for example. [[Ander Balázs: It's not just them.]] And it's very right to try to support them, too. It's a refreshing spot, if that's what Jobbik's all about, so I'm happy for you. I would like to ask Members, if they know, to support this proposal and to tell me if they see that it is not working, because we are waiting for the proposals to be made in terms of how this could be done so that the common goal can be achieved, which, if I understand it correctly, my fellow Member has also said, that it should also give jobs to people living in a non-urban environment, in this connection, freedom, self-esteem, human dignity, because this is the most important thing we can give them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-29-342	I now give the floor to Congressman László Horváth.
u2015-06-29-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, take the liberty of saying this because our fellow Member Ander has been very distracted from the subject, and it has been raised here several times to see whether public employment creates value. I would also like to give an example, a example from the countryside, an example of the Hungarian countryside from Northern Heves, Matraderke. In Matraderke, public employment solved no less than a reduction in unemployment by more than 10 percent. The settlement is self-sufficient from vegetables and meat. The pig farm works well in the settlement. In the settlement, mushrooms are produced on the market. In the settlement the local beach has been cleaned up from public work, the local beach is operated by them, they measure what they are producing in the local beach buffet, and the municipality has millions of revenue from this local beach in season. It may be possible, or even likely, that this will sustain the Hungarian countryside, much more than the band of gangs. By the way, I'd like to offer you another example. On Gyöngyöspatán, the former better-looking mayor suspected that - and because of suspicion a police investigation - he employed the public workers on his own property. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-29-344	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-29-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The aim of public employment is to ensure that people who temporarily do not have the opportunity to work in the labour market do useful work instead of aid to themselves and their families. Public employment is not a long-term goal either for the individual who is involved in public employment or for the state. Obviously, the ideal thing would be for everyone to find their place in the labour market. At the same time, it appears in the public employment system that, in an unfortunate situation, public employment can become a competitor, for example, in seasonal work. As my fellow Members have just shown here in plastic terms, the situation has emerged in Hungary that some of the public workers do not undertake or do not undertake seasonal work in order not to lose the public employment relationship. At the same time, I think that the objective that everyone can see, and the Hungarian countryside, is particularly visible, is that in order to carry out agricultural seasonal work, we need a labour force and a working hand, which has been the case at all times. Moreover, with such a demand that they cannot organise a labour force for seasonal work, they basically apply to small producers, since they have far fewer workers, sometimes they do not work with employees at all, they cannot organise seasonal work as well as large producers. Thus, small producers can be helped precisely by facilitating the redirection or seasonal work of employees in public employment by means of the bill or through the law. By the way, the bill changes significantly with the amendments, and the strong criticisms that we have heard now have become obsolete, as, for example, the proposal is out of the question of excluding the termination of the employment relationship by mutual agreement, so it clearly protects the interests of the public. Just as the mayor here is strongly opposed to the sentences that degrade the mayor as evil and omnipotent employers or serfs, that the amendment of the proposal says, and the final proposal will include, if the Parliament so accepts that it can be declared to the mayor. The advantage of this is that if the mayor is also informed that the mayor is able to take into account the needs of the market when organizing municipal public works and public employment, but otherwise, the job placement is carried out exclusively by the district employment agency. I therefore believe that the proposal, with these amendments, deals with all the issues raised in the general debate and in the detailed debate in an appropriate manner, which is why I call on the honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-29-346	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the water utility service and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. T/4821. The number of proposals and the non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-29-347	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, at its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4821 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the water utility service. Legislative proposal No 10/2014 and in this context, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour, no votes against and four abstentions. [[22.40]] During the committee meeting, the members discussed the two-point proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee, of which the portfolio supported the detailed amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. The bill aims, on the one hand, to facilitate enforcement tasks and, on the other hand, to further standardise, clarify and repeal provisions incompatible with regulatory purposes. In view of the above, focusing on priority regulatory issues, the legislative proposal covered the following areas. The bill provides for the possibility of legal processing of the water utility provider and sets out detailed rules for initiating the procedure for the obligation to join the public utility network. In addition, the bill sets a new basis for charging, regulates the basic rules of the application procedure, and regulates the fee for services provided by water utility providers on the basis of a separate fee, such as water meters, interruptions, on- and off-line, and the rest. The Minister responsible for the water utility service regulates the scope of the special fee services and the applicable prices in a regulation on the proposal of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. In addition, it was necessary, in some cases, to provide language-righteous clarifications on the bill. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please support T/4821 on the amendment of certain laws relating to water utility services Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-29-348	Thank you. I would like to ask the author if he would like to comment on the debate now. [[Zsolt Szabó says no.]] Not yet. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. So I give the floor to Anita Heringes, who presents the minority opinion formulated in the Committee on Sustainable Development.
u2015-06-29-349	Thank you very much for the floor. At the last meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, we also had a long discussion about this law, and here, too, we were able to hear sincere statements from the Deputy State Secretary, who also admitted that the water utility service was thus paid for and not solid, not stable, sustainable. I think - I said it there too - if you know that this is the case, then why don't we really start a legislative amendment that will fix this sector, a legislative amendment that will make this whole system sustainable, stable and not maintain a payment system. What we know is that the state is not a good farmer, which is said in many places in the country, is that what the state controls, or what the state owns, is going to be trouble. Because as long as there's ownership at local level and they're overseeing the systems, there's a need to be okay, because they know where the bosses live, they know where to ring the bell, they know where to knock on the door when there's something wrong with the sewer network or even the whole water supply. I also suggested that if water lessons are exchanged every 10-20 years within the European Union, in the other Member States, then this four-year exchange is a good solution for us. So you can get more money off people? So you have to stay home during work hours to change your water meter and take a day off from work? Or what other solution is there? 'Cause if I didn't replace it, only every 10 to 20 years, like abroad, it wouldn't be as much of a loss as it would normally cost. During the campaign period, you promised that there would be a free water watch exchange, and now there will be an official price. Well, then the official price should be zero, or I don't know. Because if they promised in the campaign, it's true that it's no longer a campaign period, but it's only fair to keep promises. These were expressed as minority opinions. I will then present the opinion of the faction further. Thank you.
u2015-06-29-350	Now I'll give the word to Anita Heringes again, because there's no one else at the moment. So you can present the group's opinion.
u2015-06-29-351	Thank you very much. It seems that we are the only ones interested in the questions that affect people's everyday lives, or we are thinking ahead of ourselves that we would like to comment on the questions that actually affect people's lives. In my opinion, it is indeed a fundamental right for all people to have access to healthy drinking water and to provide water at all. It is a fundamental right, which is not stable now, as I have said, and, as Deputy State Secretary has confirmed, because if a lot of tax burdens are imposed on this sector, it will eventually be at the expense of maintenance and the system, and water utility providers will be able to resolve problems more slowly, information will be slower, fewer customer service staff, fewer customer services, and this will all be at the expense of the service. And unfortunately, people in rural settlements already feel that way. The utility tax is based on the length of the utility line. For this reason, the most unfair thing about the water utilities sector is this tax, and they also draw a large amount of money from this sector, which has caused the sector to lose 20-25 billion revenues since 2014. This sector was once a sustainable and well-functioning sector. All you could see was how to get as much money out of the system as possible so it wouldn't just crash. We're really standing there now that the water supply isn't collapsing. Really, if they go home to their own people, their mayors - and it is so good to see the faces of the Fidesz Members who, apparently, do not meet these problems; that they do not talk to the professionals who run these companies, who put enthusiasm and conscience into this, because about what keeps this sector up is the enthusiasm and will of the local professionals who are still working in this sector today. We really ask you to think on the one hand about extending the exchange of water meters, not being mandatory every four years, but, as abroad, for at least 8-10 years or longer, the same water watch would suit people. And really, most of the time, the problem is that you have to go home on weekdays when the water clock changes, and it's a day out, and in most places, people can't really afford to go home and solve such a problem. They need to see that the price of a water utility service accounts for 88 percent of the basic activity and is a fixed cost. The rest is what you can play on. But if once there is no money left in the system for maintenance to be done, so that new equipment can be bought, the grip machine can be made, and there is not enough professionals left in the system, then it really will be at the expense of people's drinking water. We hope that both in waste management and in water supply, you will hear these words, that there is something to change. And I really hope that what you have promised, as promised by the Deputy Secretary of State, is that you will bring these laws back in the autumn, because you know that you will not be able to solve these problems at the moment - you are obviously doing fire-fighting, which will not mean anything at all - and I very much hope that you will finally listen to the sector, listen to local governments, listen to people's opinions, listen to professionals and not politicians in particular on this issue. And they're finally bringing in a system that works. Because these are the sectors that can't be touched the way you've managed to do it. [[22.50]] I'd like to share one more little thing with you just in case you hear it and see if you can feel the weight of these things. As I said at the waste, as I say here at the water, with everything they refer to as disaster management, it's actually a disaster. The only one that really shook me when I received the answer from the Ministry of Interior about how much the number of chimney fires has increased in the past period, I got a number that, while there were 804 chimney fires throughout the country in 2014, there were 649 chimney fires in the country during the first six months. We are fortunate that you have stepped back from ruining the chimney sweeps, but unfortunately, after you set out to destroy this sector, this is the problem in the number of chimney fires. That, gentlemen, is 80 percent of last year. They're playing with people's lives, they can't do that in these sectors, they're beating everything up. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-352	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-06-29-353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to public services, as has been emphasised several times this evening, we believe that a systematic system review is needed. Simply the events of the past year that they have done have led to the fact that, regardless of whether we are talking about a water utility or about shipments of waste, waste companies, service providers are becoming increasingly impossible. Their operation is at the border, and this is not a question of Hungarian businesses, this is a question concerning Hungarian public services. The fact that, in many cases, the operation of water utility services has reached the limit of impossibility has created a situation that sooner or later makes the population vulnerable. Then, when there are no resources and much else for maintenance, people will feel the problem. I agree that more burdens on the population in terms of public services should not be imposed or imposed, but I think that the state should take greater responsibility and greater responsibility in this regard. The utility taxes are high, they are high, because these utility taxes are practically disrupting the system. The problem, as my fellow Member, Anita Heringes said, is that the tax base is established here on the basis of the length of the public utility lines, on the basis of the river meters, and you know that again these are particularly detrimental to those water utility companies that provide services in a multitude of small villages, where 80 percent of the population is living in 180 settlements in Hungary, where 94 percent of the settlements have 20 percent of the population - and I put it in a quotation mark - obviously the tax burden is much higher in particular, as the river meters show a scale shift. Obviously, these water utility providers are much easier to get to the brink of bankruptcy. It would therefore be worth rethinking this story in a system perspective, but it would also be worth reconsidering the four-year replacement of the connecting water meter. It has been mentioned that there are 8-10-12 years in Europe, but the most important thing is to keep their promises. If they said there would be free change of watches, they wouldn't raise it from the 6,000 forints five years ago to 18 thousand to 19 thousand, because today this is the case, and then reduce it, and still be higher than they were in 2010, but do as they said, the official price should be zero forint equivalent. Perhaps it would also be worthwhile to reduce the VAT on the basic activity, which would compensate for the loss of revenues in companies. That's what I said, you need government involvement, and if you want premium support, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then it has to be made fairer. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-354	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like... [[For signal:]] The debate is closed and the floor is for the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-29-355	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is essentially to help carry out the enforcement tasks while creating the possibility of public pricing for special-charged services. I would like to say that I only believe in non-profit water supply and I do not believe in forprofit. Only service providers who are able to operate in this system can be improved and maintained. And the fact that out of 42 operators, which are 10 percent of the previous ones, and some of them can work effectively, i.e. with zero percent results, some of them are losing money, it is not certain that there is a problem with the law, but I think that first we should examine companies that are loss-making, why they are loss-making. And if we move on with what you said, dear Congresswoman, that we need to look at who is providing in small settlements, who is providing low GDP and low population. They need to be reviewed, and on the basis of the principle of solidarity, we know that, and we are working on it anyway, but that does not mean that in general I say that everyone is losing money, because that is not true. I believe in one thing, that the reduction of household rent was a very effective, very good solution, and we must continue to do so, and I also believe in what we voted for in the Fundamental Law and we have recorded that all Hungarian citizens have the right to access healthy drinking water. That's what we keep to ourselves in the legislation. In addition, the main aim of the amendment of the law is to put the official pricing of water utility services that were not previously provided on a new basis and to significantly shorten procedural deadlines. I will also make an observation here, although your fellow Member, I believe, has left the courtroom. [[Nándor Gúr will rise from the notary's seat: I am here.]] . I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm just saying that VAT doesn't mean a change in revenue, because if I collect less VAT, say, in the case of a water utility service, I pay less into the central budget, if more, then more. So, in this respect, VAT does not have any impact on revenue from a water utility provider, if you like, mathematically constant element. In the case of special fee services that have been used for electricity and gas services for a long time, we have introduced an official pricing. For example, classically such is the replacement of water meters or water restrictions and interruptions and their accounting. The bill also extends these good solutions to water utilities. The summarised amendment is in full compliance with the Government's position and we support it. Dear Parliament, In view of all this, I would like to ask you to support both the summary amendment proposal and the bill, the whole of this bill, in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-356	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2007 CVI on state assets. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of law in connection with the increase of state or municipal property. T/5144 submitted by representatives of Attila Tilki and Pál Völner. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the author, Pál Völner, if he wishes to comment on the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: At the end.]] Not in this part. I'm asking if anyone from the government wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-06-29-357	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As we said at the end of the debate, on the basis of the bill, we see the future transparent and effective use of the resources that can be used to increase national wealth. In view of this, the bill is supported by the government and we ask Parliament to do the same. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[23.00]]
u2015-06-29-358	The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. Until now, only Congressman Nándor Gúr has applied for this. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State said very briefly, very briefly, I think, and in the closing word he will send back a few more thoughts. It would have been nice if we could have talked about this on the way, but whatever. "In terms of asset management," says the Secretary of State, "if I don't see it correctly." - I feel like there's an amazing concentration going on, so it's very strong - very strong! - centralization in progress. The outcome of this centralization, according to my judgement, is that a minister focuses on virtually all kinds of powers, all kinds of possibilities, and that is very dangerous, it is not certain that he is lucky. Now it doesn't matter what color a government, left-wing, right-wing, whatever, it doesn't matter, and when such a concentration of power is born in the management of state wealth - not to say a slip of the tongue or farming - I think the government is running a very dangerous course. I do not know, of course, what the purpose is: that Minister Lazarus should be buried by the files, or that the availability of any company through the MFB, the Hungarian Development Bank, is given, and that if he points out anything, then so be it. I don't know what the purpose is. The goal is to control everything? The goal is to keep everything inside? I don't know. I'm asking. Although I'm likely to, since everything that's written in connection with the bill suggests this, it brings this with it, at least for me. Any public company can be considered, no exceptions, everything, anything. The rights itself, the management of the multitude of rights, are shaped and shaped by the minister himself as he pleases. You can withdraw it, give it, rearrange it, vary it, do whatever you want with it, do whatever you want in Hungarian. I don't know if it's right or if I think it's wrong. Why do they do it then? I wonder what's behind the story, what's behind the story. Maybe I don't want to find out; maybe I don't want to find out, because that wouldn't be good for me, not for me, usually taken. I think that in terms of the responsible management of state assets, controlability, accountability, monitoring and much more are very important, but now I see that this, whether it is controllability or accountability, is becoming increasingly - more and more so! - narrowing down, less and less opportunities in this regard, or at least more complicated; this may be the goal, the untraceable. János Lázár has an increasing concentration of state wealth, resulting from the reading of the law. The administration of this fortune, as I said, is decided by the minister at an incredible degree of freedom. I don't think that's right. It is not good, because - once and for the last time - it is inaccessible and unfollowable, I hope I have just said that it would seem like the goal, but I hope that it is not, not that social control is impossible, not that what is now being transformed into a customary right, that the genre of Parliament is being governed by government regulations; this is something similar. I just want you to think about whether this is okay. Think about it this way, because it's no good even if you don't govern it. It's worth looking forward to. There'll be life after three years. There is life in Hungary after you too. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-360	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa.
u2015-06-29-361	Mr. President. Dear House, I tried to make sense of it - I'm sorry, fellow Member. - what you're saying, but frankly, I'm sorry, it's hard to maintain my seriousness. You seem to have confused MNV Zrt. with MFB Zrt. He spoke of János Lázár - he must be with him, and lies with him - but this is the case: it is not a coincidence that a secretary of state from the government is sitting in the parliamentary debate, not as Secretary of State of János Lázár, but as Secretary of State of Miklós Seszták. Wasn't it suspicious? For he kept saying that John Lazarus would crush everything. In particular, it is a law that Miklós Seszták, head of the Ministry of National Development, who, by the way, focuses and supervises the vast majority of state assets, and the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. This is a matter of assets belonging to it. I don't know why he mentioned John Lazarus, but there's been a misunderstanding. Miklós Seszták should have been mentioned if anyone had to be mentioned. Moreover, I fully understand that it is difficult for the socialists to cope with the idea that not a hundred types of trustees manage state assets in addition to a completely opaque relationship, but, by the way, the state trustee, and it is highly concentrated, and therefore the responsibilities will be much clearer; not to mention that, of course, the Minister does not decide on these issues, but the Government's decisions are carried out by the Minister. Now, for example, when the Hungarian state decided to buy the Bank of Budapest, which the Socialists privatized through Lajos Bokros, their later finance minister, now that they decided to return the Bank of Budapest to the entire state ownership circle, it wasn't the case that János Fónagy woke up one morning to say: "Take the Bank of Budapest, too, if we already have the management of assets - but the government decided to do so by the Ministry. As is otherwise decided by the government, the minister executes the assets which, where appropriate, are under the supervision of John Lazarus. But it is even more important to know that all of this is based on the law on the protection of state assets, which is extremely strict about the conditions under which it is possible to even consider selling state assets. Otherwise, if, let us say, we keep the state asset within the general government circle, then I do not understand the reason for the dread, because if the state can transfer state property free of charge to municipal property, then the appropriate restriction means that, my dear fellow Member, the party should not be what was with Gyula Molnár in connection with the Kopaszi dam at the time, about the very close and good friend of Leisztinger, I'm sure he remembers: Újbuda fought the free transfer of property from the state. What does coincidence do? Within a short time, the state fortune was transferred to Leistinger, who sold it to a Portuguese investor, now there at a gold price, but no one saw any money. I know that this system is seen with nostalgia by the socialists, that, wow, back in the heroic era, when such an Óbuda cylinder mill transaction could be done at the expense of state wealth, what a good world it was - we think about it in a completely different way, we think about it in a completely different way. Moreover, this amendment, which has been tabled by our fellow Members, is not specifically about this issue, but about the fact that the remaining assets of pension funds that have been referred to as voluntary can otherwise be used per item of property. [[23.10]] So it is not about the general use of state assets and the concentration of assets, but about the fact that, by the way, there are assets remaining, and, where appropriate, there is something to do with it, which is intelligent, municipal property, because if you recall our fellow Member, it has turned out, in the context of the liquidation of this whole system, that the assets recorded at voluntary pension funds are worth a fraction, but also the exploitation of them is extremely difficult. It's the arrangement of these things, not anything else. So I liked the style of the comment that they didn't even dare to think about the concentration of power here. Don't think about it, because it's not János Lázár, it's not a concentration of power, it's not an unlimited squandering of state wealth. I know this is difficult to cope with, and this is just a specific wind, and I repeat, János Lázár and Miklós Seszták should not be confused, just as the Hungarian National Asset Manager is not confused with the Hungarian Development Bank. Put a pin in my fellow Member's head as to which secretary of state is here, it's pretty much possible to shoot at which ministry the question may belong, unless the government is very close to it. But I'd like to reassure you from that point of view, you didn't miss. That is why Mr Miklós Seszták, Parliamentary State Secretary, János Fónagy, is sitting here in the debate. By the way, I would specifically like to ask you to support this matter, because if this amendment is not in place, as opposed to your vision, the Minister of the Sector will not be able to arbitraryly decide whether to put the assets back and forth, but, without authorisation, even the government cannot make a decision about it, and then we simply cannot make use of the wealth of the otherwise questionable utility as much as we can. So I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-362	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-06-29-363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I wanted to be cynical, I could start by saying "pussy, mussy, mossy." [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] But I'm not gonna start like this - you know, you know. [[Lajos Kósa: Easy for those who never make mistakes!]] No, I'm just saying, my fellow Member, that if I wanted to be cynical, no, I don't want to be cynical. I don't want to be random. It wasn't a mistake on my part, no. The thing is simply that if you follow the operation of your own government, you can see that there are ministers in the government and they have a minister over ministers. Perhaps you know John Lazarus. And there is the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. Orbán doesn't really deal with these issues, as far as I can tell. I'm sure you'd better see it. You can tell me if you care more. But regardless of the fact that John Lazarus does not exercise direct supervision in this regard, he does not want me to believe this, does he not want me to believe it or others, who will be, if appropriate, in a quote, madness that a record will be read through. So, I'd like to close this part here. However, I would like an answer to the other part, because I see that my fellow Member Kósa has intimate information, he can represent matters with expertise. It would be good to know, prior to the adoption of the bill, what assets are currently affected by this amendment. But if you can't answer, knowing Secretary Major, I think he's a very knowledgeable man, you can certainly help me with that, so I'm asking him to do it, or try to answer it together. And my second question would be what aspects of the government, not the individual minister, would be how the government would hand over assets to certain municipalities, and why not to others. I'd love to see these. I hope you understand the questions. If you don't understand, maybe I'll have time to explain it to you one more time. Thirdly, I would just like to say that, yes, I do see a strong concentration of power in this regard, and I find it dangerous to have control over this concentration and accountability. It is not in my interest, it is not in our interest that this should be given, but in the interests of all of us, in the interests of Hungary, I think. So in this respect, I think it would be worth taking steps before the draft law is adopted. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-29-364	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask the author, Pál Völner, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today, the House has closed this T/5144. The discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 for which no amendment has been tabled. My fellow Members also looked a little more closely at the fate of state wealth in the management of state wealth. I would therefore like to mention that, over the past 20 years, state wealth has fallen to one tenth as a result of irrational and irresponsible management, which has characterised the previous governments, of course, mostly the left-wing ones. The current cabinet, on the other hand, has reversed this direction. The privatization era has been completed, with emphasis on the preservation, enhancement and exploitation of state wealth. In strategic enterprises such as MOL, Rába, Main Gas, MKB Bank or even E.ON's gas business, we were able to acquire state ownership again. We have created a legislative environment defining the framework for responsible asset management. The greatest achievement in this respect was the creation of a fundamental law on national assets, which enabled greater protection of national assets, strategic firms and natural and cultural values and, at the same time, made the management of assets more transparent. This system now ensures that all elements of national wealth are treated on the same ownership basis, as my fellow Member Kósa pointed out, that responsible asset management is achieved. The aim is to increase the revenue from the various assets and to make better use of their potential. Thus, the property law provides a guarantee that national property can no longer be squandered, that public property serves the common good. The government has also reviewed a number of PPP projects in which the State is exposed to disproportionate risks, while the profits and extra-profit were struck by entrepreneurs. Free municipal ownership of state-owned properties has begun. As a result, municipalities received more than HUF 50 billion worth of assets, so more railway facilities, sports facilities, garrison clubs were put in good hands, where they guarantee proper public service operation and thus better access to the people who live there. The bill before us is intended to enable the assets of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, which ceased on 31 January 2015, to be used to increase state and municipal assets. Currently the management tasks of MNB Zrt. it provides, but it is justified that assets' revenues, dividends, returns, sales revenues can be used not only to reduce debt but also to increase wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for taking part in this debate, and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-29-366	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place tomorrow. It follows now that the 1997 LXXVIII on speeding up and simplifying certain development investments in the capital and, in this context, on shaping and protecting the built environment. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/5135 submitted by representatives of Gergely Gulyás, Imre Vas, Mónika Dunai, Attila Szabolcs. The number of proposals and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a maximum of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Márius Révész, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-29-367	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the speeding up and simplifying of certain development investments in the capital and, in this context, the development and protection of the built environment in LXXVIII 1997. T/5135 amending Act T/5135 Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the legislative committee's own amendment proposal, which, in keeping with the original purpose of the bill, aims to define as an exception, as regards the specific procedural provisions of the bill, expropriation procedures and the scope of ex ante examination and environmental impact assessment procedures, in the case of expropriation procedures, in the light of their specific nature, which requires a longer time limit, and in the case of expropriation procedures, in the light of their constitutional constraints. [[23.20]] This amendment was adopted unanimously by 26 votes in favour. The aim of the proposal is that the Parliament is related to the reconstruction and the northern extension of the M3 metro line in Budapest as a local transport development, as well as the Budapest capital III. speed up and facilitate the implementation of certain development investments in the capital to increase the flood safety of the stellar flushing in its district. In view of the importance of investments, the proposal lays down a shorter time limit for administrative and administrative procedures in administrative procedures in the context of the investments identified, with the exception of the procedures for authorising railway undertakings, compared to general administrative time limits, by allowing for a shorter time limit for certain types of procedures. The state and capital investments in Budapest are coordinated, helping each other. In order to ensure that these key developments in the capital are implemented as quickly and as easily as possible, this bill was put forward. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report unanimously by 27 votes in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-368	I am asking if there is anyone who wishes to comment at this stage. [[No one's reporting.]] No. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2015-06-29-369	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me, first of all, to thank all the parliamentary groups for their support for this very important legislative amendment, which, in addition to the summarised amendment proposal, is supported by the Government, and, similarly, I would ask the factions to support us in the final vote. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-370	Thank you. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now it would be the representatives' speeches if someone applied for a speech. But if you don't, the debate that doesn't exist is over. I'll ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to comment. So, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Next up is the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Lajos Kósa and Bence Tuzson, representatives of Roland Mengyi are independent, T/5044. His presentation and the non-autonomous texts received are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-29-371	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/5044. XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. A bill amending the Act was tabled by 26 votes in favour with three abstentions, i.e. an amendment and a summary report without voting against. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, almost all the points of the Economic Committee's motion and, on the other hand, the legislative committee's own motion. At point 3 of the committee's proposal, the Legislative Committee noted an over-extension compared to the bill submitted, so that the committee could not support it in accordance with the house rules. By the way, the authors indicated that the provision concerned was therefore intended to be submitted as a separate bill. As regards the summary amendment proposal, I would like to note that the extension of the scope of the sites by Balatonfüred justifies that the building town of Balatonfüred should be the municipality of Balatonfüred for investments in Balatonfüred. In addition, the investment will be supported by the government's authorisation to set additional building requirements for the real estate of the installation and, in respect of certain installations in the framework of the investment, the builder's identity in a regulation. Please support the proposal, not only for the successful implementation of the World Swimming Championship, but also for the country, the capital, including the XIII. also for the development of a district. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-29-372	I will ask the author, Mr Lajos Kósa, if you would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. On behalf of the government, I ask Mr János Fónagy State Secretary if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2015-06-29-373	Thank you, Mr. President. The government supports the Commission's proposal.
u2015-06-29-374	All right, thank you. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I therefore give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-29-375	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, As my fellow Member, the Fidesz member of the Legislative Committee, said, there has indeed been an amendment without a vote against. It is possible, by the way, after today's legislative committee meeting that this was the last such a state of grace, because it seems that there is a party in Parliament, namely the socialists who seem to back out of this so far to be unanimous... - with the exception of a small part, the LMP has not yet supported the amendments and the various legislative proposals that have been submitted to this House in connection with the water world. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has expressed... - and at the moment we are sticking to the agreement that we expressed at a five-party meeting about how important we simply consider the water world championship so that I do not have to list fully what world championship it is, as the President did at the beginning. Indeed, we believe that the organisation of the water World Championship is very important for Hungary as well as it must be important for Parliament. For the first time in the bill that we have just tabled, a almost one-page bill was presented to us, if I do not count the annex, which was then supplemented by the Economic Committee. This is only a little bit odd, because if we were talking about five-party negotiations, then the organisation committee of the World Swimming Championship, the water world organizing committee, who believes that a legislative amendment proposal should be submitted, could be agreed in our opinion, say, with the government mandate assigned to the water vb, or with other people, and then it could be worked together so that it would not be possible for Lajos Kósa to submit a legislative amendment proposal, and then this bill-modifying proposal could be added to almost three pages - one page - and then, at the Legislative Committee, the Members could not accept it, since it was an over-expansionary, which is why Lajos Kósa has been brought before the House, which Jobbik Hungary Mozgalom has also contributed to today, unlike house rules, as well as in the course of tomorrow, the bill 5419, which in principle is going to discuss this matter in two legislative proposals. What I would like to talk about is this: we have given the government our absolute goodwill and our trust on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement and then on behalf of the Water World Championships, when we say that we will support the World Water Championship, we will support the bill that they are bringing in as long as we see it taking place in the normal way. [[23.30]] I would add that on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we have not yet experienced anything, either on the part of the organising committee or on the part of the negotiations that we have held in advance, which would encourage the Movement for Jobbik Hungary to withdraw from this event, like the MSZP, or at least not to support this event, but I would like to say one or two things. One - and I do not put it primarily as a criticism, but as a lesson for the future. One of them is that we have asked for several times, here, too, a number of the location numbers in Annex 1. By the way, from these location numbers, which we don't know, so if someone looks at a location number, doesn't know exactly which areas we're talking about, we've already asked for it, and there's nothing to hide, because now, when we asked for it, we got a map, they showed us what it was supposed to be about, but it would be easier if it was written behind the geography numbers in just a few lines, why this area was involved in this circle, and what its purpose was in connection with the World Championship. That's what we've been promised several times, and it didn't work. Even now, a few areas have been taken out of it, which, in our opinion, should not have come out of it, but since the MSZP requested it, you have removed a number of areas from this list. The other is that if we really have nothing to hide and there are five-party negotiations and we consider the World Water Championship to be a joint matter, then it is equally common and it is completely understandable that they want to set up a 100% state-owned company. This is the Budapest 2017 World Championship Organizer and Compensator Nonprofit Kft., which will be involved in the implementation of the World Championship as the leader and conductor of the project and will be assigned to it by describing the detailed tasks it has, but this is three sentences. So it might be possible to agree on this, and to tell you how you imagine, say, the operation of this kft. Where appropriate, the head of this cft, say, who will you report to? Who's gonna do the check? If you imagine this kft. - I'm just guessing right now - that there is, let's say, the organizing committee who determines what this kft. has to do, and the operation itself, the workflow itself, the kft itself. it's done, billed, paid, and everything else is done, you can agree with it. We don't know what system they're planning to run this kft. at all. We don't know what kind of people they're thinking about controlling this kft. I feel that these could be discussed first. And here comes the question of control, because we specifically asked for it in relation to every activity in the World Championship - because it is very important now that we can prove to people at this World Championship that we can arrange such a great world event that it will be free from all kinds of corruption and all sorts of dark cases. I believe we can do this. However, if that is what you want us to do, then control is very important, and it needs to be given a great deal of emphasis. Therefore, if we had sat down and discussed, let's say, before this bill was tabled, we could have asked these questions about what kind of control it would have been. I mean, I'm not gonna tell you the secret that I think this guy's gonna have a supervisory board. Who's gonna be in this board of directors? I mean, if we don't have anything to hide about the operation, but if I'm doing the math, I think that's why this kft., by the time the World Championship is over, I'm sure it's going to flow through your hands through Kft. if it's not more. That's a pretty big sum, in my opinion. It may not be that much, Lajos Kósa is on the organizing committee, he may even know more about the amount that will be linked to this kft. If the check could be handled normally and it could be resolved for sure, now again in order not to misunderstand my words, not to say that you want to hide anything, but it would be much clearer and more straightforward, perhaps I could say that it would be more elegant if, let's say, the opposition parties in the supervisory board had a seat in the same way, and then they could be sure that yes, here, you can look into everything, we have nothing to hide. We don't want to do that, I'm saying petty things, but these are mistakes, by the way, but it's a short time, and I understand that you have to hurry. So we don't want to go into things that the MSZP was holding on to if they'd agreed to deal with an entrepreneur or not two weeks before the government decree, and then there's a dog in the background. No, because I do not think they are aware that if we wish to involve Hungarian entrepreneurs in the organisation of the World Championship, what is important for us, there is one company in Hungary today in steel structure production who has the capacity to do so, if we do not want to involve a foreigner; yes, with them we may have to negotiate certain things in advance. So we do not want to be petty about this, but I continue to ask you and I would like to ask you to try - they say that it must not only be clean, but it must also be seen. So let us give a great deal to appearances, and also that yes, indeed, we want to conduct this without corruption, but we will do everything in our power to communicate this to the public and to everyone. So that's all I'm asking. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-376	There aren't many candidates to argue with. Congressman Lajos Kósa has spoken. I ask whether, as the author, he wishes to close, or - because there are many people who are no longer able to argue, or who do not have time, that is what I see. Anyway, I'll give you the floor, and then... [[Lajos Kósa: I'm closing.]] He wishes to conclude, but I will conclude the debate and give the floor to the rapporteur.
u2015-06-29-377	Mr. President. Dear House, For the sake of simplicity, I will conclude, but, of course, this is more part of the debate that Mr Szilágyi was pressuring, because there were a number of inaccuracies in what he said, but perhaps because the work of the organising committee and the preparation of the whole water vb is not a particularly simple process. When FINA decided to hand over the organizational rights of World Championship 17 to Hungary, we brought it forward from the 21st, then the FINA, the Hungarian Swimming Association and the Hungarian Government signed a tripartite agreement, of which we sent a copy to all the factions, more specifically to the people named by the factions, who were involved in the preliminary negotiations to understand what was going to happen. We're going according to the contract. The fact is, the organising committee has not yet been established. It was about the fact that the factions delegate a delegation to the organizing committee, which was found to be - unfortunately, after the settlement was divorced, because I, who was announced by the Hungarian Swimming Association in 2013, as the president of the Budapest Water Championship, is included in the contract that it should be named when the contract was signed; and I was elected because I organized two water events in Debrecen when I was the local president of the organising committee, a short-track swimming European Championship and a long-track swimming European Championship. So LEN and FINA immediately accepted me. Tamás Gyárfás could not be named because Tamás Gyárfás has in the meantime become the treasurer of FINA, so the cashier who signs contracts with the Hungarian government and the organising committee on behalf of FINA cannot sign with himself. The fact is that the organising committee will be set up by a government decision. In order to control the work of the organising committee, it would be possible to involve people who were delegated by the factions on the basis of the preliminary faction agreement, minus LMP, because LMP did not support the basic law in the first place. At the same time, after having to take up contractual obligations and the organising committee is not a legal person, it cannot conclude a contract, so the Hungarian Government has established a non-profit cft on the basis of a tripartite agreement with FINA, which my colleague has now spoken of as a company to be established in the future, but it has already been established with a government decision, which has also been published in the Gazette. He is also sitting here, Mr Fónagy, because he belongs to them, created by the Hungarian National Asset Manager, and belongs to him, and is headed by a gentleman named György Borók, who was also the Deputy State Secretary for Property Management of Anita Boros. We chose this scheme because it is a public finance company and we need to be fully aware of the way in which it operates in the general government sector. [[23.40]] On the other hand, this cft. has a supervisory board, and Mr. Erik Bánki mentioned that at today's five-party meeting - where perhaps Szőrsi 'Mr. Jobbik was there,' he suggested, 'that we extend the supervisory board for the purpose of control; which, by the way, can be taken calmly, and perhaps not even a government decision, because Mr. Seszták, as Minister of Inspector, can do so, and then to the company that signs the contracts in particular... - because it must be verified. Well, according to the committee's guidance, the company will take the specific responsibility, the organizational steps, with 60 people by the end of the year, and then, when the water club is there, at least 300 people will have to wear it, because there are so many tasks; and in the supervisory board, the factions who delegate members will be able to support it, because they can see everything there. The negotiation itself is also very important. I would add that time does not work for us, so here we have to make a series of decisions on which we are currently fighting for our own interests. For example, the debate on who should perform the host Broadcaster tasks. So the person who gives the signal of mediation in the world and has to buy it from him is a very big debate, because we are talking about a $7 million assignment in total. FINA also wants him to hire someone - he wants to hire the EBU - but that's because the Kazanyi World Championship, which is going to happen now, the Russians didn't take this job, so it's the Russian state TV, and that's why the EBU was entrusted to him - it's the abbreviation of the European Broadcasting Union - and we don't want that, because we think Hungarian TV is the right thing to do. But it's a lot of money here, and I'll be happy to inform the interested parties about the details, because the company will have to sign up, and the organizational committee will have to decide who will perform the host Broadcaster tasks. We didn't make any decisions in these, but we had to take a position. Last week, the FINA delegation was led by Mr Marculescu, and we indicated that we did not want to give this. We pay the EBU $200,000 if necessary, because otherwise it costs to replace the EBU, but we think that out of the 7 million dollars, Hungarian TV can prepare to perform this task. It was not simple, there were 4.6 billion viewers of the last World Water Championship according to the official data of FINA, which obviously means that 4 billion 600 million connections have been established. Obviously, the repetitions are in there, so there were actually no more than 2 billion people watching it, but 4.6 billion times. There will be no such publicity for the capital in the near future. So you have to pay attention to these, because it doesn't matter that when the host broadcaster gives the signal, what are the five seconds that every TV viewer in the world looks like on every channel. It's a key issue, because I think we need to show the capital, not even a question. The proposal we are talking about is itself... - because here I am talking about a series of things that do not belong directly here, but the factions who are involved in this cooperation are very welcome to be involved in this, and then we agree on this, and then, of course, following the rules of conflict of interest, everyone should suggest someone who is involved in this work and is carrying out the audit. There's really nothing to hide. In fact, it is okay for the factions to see into this work, because if Hungary wants to settle the Olympics, then it is okay that the factions have the knowledge that this joint effort can be made. It is not in itself a matter of pro-government or opposition to such a watery world championship, it is an absolute Hungarian matter. The present proposal came before the House because the original proposal formulated only investment issues, without Balatonfüred. Now Balatonfüred has come into this, and by the time we've already put him out on a state administration warrant, the government commissioner, Mr Balázs Fürjes, has indicated that he has some more clarification proposals, and we have taken them into consideration. But I told him that some of these things would be over-expansioned, so that's not the way to do it. There is nothing in them, and it has already clarified existing proposals. The most important of this is that the temporary bleachers should not be taken into account when determining the percentage of installation, since it will otherwise be dismantled in September. So it's not a big elvas. In the case of the location numbers, the clarification took place because of the following: I did not understand it either, but just gave in to my waist. What happened was the XIII. The district, as we know, is a socialist-led district of the capital, indicated that it disagrees with certain local figures. The Socialists have indicated that if they are not deleted, they will not remain stone and they will not support it. I asked Mr. Fürjes if, in the case of the investment, we needed the specific location numbers, he said no, the organising committee didn't need them at all, he said to pull them out. Well, if it hurts the socialists, then let us make some kind of gesture that turned out to be pointless, of course, because although they said that if it got out, then it would be the XIII. That's what matters to the district. They didn't tell me why anyway, because even though we checked the location numbers, I didn't understand exactly why, but it got out. Now they don't support it. I'm not surprised, I'm just a little sorry, but that's the mystery of the geography numbers. By the way, Mr. Balázs Fürjes, or now we have all the reasons for what is needed. I would ask the factions to support this, and then we will continue the discussion under the leadership of Mr Bánki Erik and, of course, we are open. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-29-378	Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions will also be taken on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Ander Balázs came first with the title of "Cheaps of Guilt." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-29-379	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is well-known that XX. Dictatorships of the century used the means of torture of the weapon of remorse. In this connection, I would like to share some thoughts with my fellow Members. They created systematic guilt in people, social groups and practically in society as a whole. It was a terrifying weapon, because guilt paralyzes a man, reduces his resistance, makes him more vulnerable to oppression. All I have to say here is that in the '50s and '60s, the communist power did an enormous destruction of the Hungarian society with this remorseful strategy. They humiliated, branded, crippled people. The artificially aroused guilt was put in the service of political oppression. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] They're not gonna figure out who they're from. I quoted it from the chapter "The Policy of Guilt" of Elemér Hankiss's book "The Human Adventure" with enormous, amazing knowledge. Thanks to Harec, LiveLeak and Kuruc.info, we know that things work in the same way elsewhere, because during a conversation with Israeli journalists in Berlin the other day, the Israeli embassy spokesperson stated that it is not in the interest of the Zionist state to normalize the relationship between the two countries, but to maintain the remorse of the Holocaust in the souls of the Germans. But that should be the Germans' problem. We are more deeply affected by the fact that two types of mirrors, one for themselves and one for the rest of the world, have been published by the U.S. State Department of Human Rights, in which - what a surprise - we were found to be exclusionists, anti-Gypsy and anti-Semites. Wickham Steed and Seton-Watson, who founded the Trianon shame on the PR level, would beg for the recipe for the recipe for the anti-tank agent Wickham Steed and Seton-Watson. And all of this - using public funds - they even play from home. In the autumn, the Vestes, the most expensive film ever made by the Film Fund, will be released in the public address only, as the Hungarian Guard film. The so-called masterpiece was provided by Mr Andy Vajna with a grant of HUF 790 million, obviously from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and not from his own pocket, filled by a profitable casino business, which was a fief from Fidesz. [[23.50]] However, Jobbik's old demand is that domestic film production, with a few exceptions, should at last not only produce films that entertain the snobbed core audience of domestic ruin taverns in snoberia, as well as works that show Hungarianism as a people with a virtually sinful past, but, as in normalized countries, also be performed here to present the heroic struggles and exemplary heroic figures of the national past. Our wonderful stories are unknown not only to the world, but also to the generations growing up at home, they know less and less of them, so they cry out for film on screen almost legally. The mind-forming, national identity-enhancing power of large-scale, all-night historical movies is well known. In Hungary, any declaration of patriotism was a nationalist, harmful extreme, not only during the time of the 9 million fascist-visiting cancer dictatorship, but also during the soft-hearted cadár regime and the extreme liberal opinion of terror following the change of regime. Former internationalist, cosmopolitan, and money-sharing key people of cultural policy generally reject claims arising as legitimate national demands out of guts. We have told you before, despite the fact that the 27th of March will be Rákóczi Memorial Day, despite the fact that we remember the II. Ferenc Rákóczi's oath to the memory of those who fought for Hungarian freedom under the flag of Cum Deo pro patria et libertate, if the lieutenant of Rákóczi, directed by Frigyes Bán, is more than 60 years old, and there is no hope of shooting a similar theme film in our country. With this or filming the glorious Battle of Bratislava, or Hunyadi's exploits, Hungarian cultural policy would pay off an old, painful debt. Ceterum censeo: The fruits of our nation's toxic guilt must be burned to the ground with the fire of the ancient embers of our heroic past. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-29-380	Welcome. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-381	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On June 26-27, I had the pleasure of attending the National Forestry Association's travelling meeting. The motto of the event was the value-creating forest management this year. The chosen motto is very important, because the most important task of the near future forest management could be to create value and show it to society. Value-creating forestry can only sell this activity in such a way that it is understandable to the general public and at least supported. By the way, the event was organized professionally, with demanding, forward-looking programs. I had a great time both days. The association, which is the oldest non-governmental organisation in Europe, organised this travelling assembly 146 times. This year's meeting is hosted by SEFAG Forestry and Fapari Zrt. I was. There were more than 700 participants from all over the country, as well as from Transylvania and the Highlands. SEFAG is one of the most important forest farmers in the country and manages about 86 thousand hectares of state land in South Transdanubia. Seven sections were selected at the event, where interested parties could decide for themselves what they were interested in. Such was forest management in Zselic; tourism and public well-being in this area; wildlife management and tourism in Labod; landscape and forest history roaming was also possible; Kaposvár was also known in more detail; and at the Wildlife Management Landscape Centre, in the heart of Zselic, it was possible to try again for those who were interested in the area; and there was a seventh opportunity, an extra night program, when the sky, the stars, could be discovered from a very small romantic forest centre. The evening was a friendly meeting, I think, the highlight of the day, which was filled with exciting performers, a meaningful show, a good mood, where the profession could talk directly about its skill and troubles, and the colleagues could remember the experiences together. The next day, the festive assembly, I think, was dignified. Among other things, the Hungarian foresters joined the initiative of President János Áder and asked all the people who loved the forest to sign through our website, our living planet, to draw the world's leaders' attention to the importance of environmental sustainability. And party policy differences, whether or not, I think this was an important step on the part of Hungarian foresters and a measure to be supported. By the way, Péter Zambo, president of the association, said at the travelling meeting of the National Forestry Association that the forestry industry was brought to life centuries ago by sustainability, and the foresters have felt the responsibility of farming in the interests of future generations in their daily work ever since. I very much agree with these thoughts. The most prestigious awards of the National Forestry Association were also handed over in the framework of the travelling assembly, the awards of the Forest of the Year. I have to mention here that the national competition of forest technicians will be finalized this year by Gyulaj Zrt. Fordezze, Péter Tóth won, to whom I congratulate, too. Thus, until the next year's competition, you can be the holder of the title "Forest of the Year." Through my friends and fellow university students, the world has always been well-known to me by the foresters, yet I am again and again surprised by the strength and camaraderie that characterizes the professions based on the traditions of Banská Štiavnica. It was touching and touching to try this again. I can safely say that any other area is envious of this community. From the autumn, as we know, there are more legislation in this area before the House, which is why I think it is important to draw the government's attention to the fact that the consultation with these professions should not be missed now, because I believe that without the hunters, it is not possible to change the laws that affect them in substance, but the same is true for the foresters. Both laws are ahead of us and will come before this House, at least as promised. I hope that the laws in force will not remain, so I did not speak in order to defend the laws currently in force. I also think that they need to be changed, but without consulting the profession, this is unthinkable, I think, because it is in areas where this cannot be saved. And we, the policy, I think, have three tasks left in this area: to listen to these people, to provide the resources to maintain an adequate level of education, and, above all, to let professionals work. Good luck. Greetings to the forester. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[0.00]]
u2015-06-29-382	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Member Fidesz, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-29-383	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Tourism is one of the most important areas of the Hungarian national economy. For all those who make a living in this sector, the situation of the tourism sector in Hungary is crucial. Today, about half a million jobs in Hungary depend on tourism, and the sector takes its share of the national economy for more than HUF 2000 billion. As a Balaton man, as a Member of the Parliament of the Siófok district, I also pay particular attention to the development of this economic segment. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the latest data from KSH, we have good reason to reassure and encourage all those who found their calculations in tourism. According to the latest data of KSH, the number of nights spent in April 2015 increased by 2.5 for foreign guests and by around 7.9 per cent for domestic guests compared to a year earlier. Foreign guests spent a total of 1 million 19 thousand nights in commercial accommodations, and their number exceeded the previous year's data by 7.5 percent. The fact that the number of nights spent by foreign guests has also increased in five of the nine tourist regions is also welcome. There is a 12 percent increase in domestic guests. According to KSH data, the number of nights spent in commercial accommodation can be estimated at around 793,000. The increase in tourism is also shown by the fact that guest traffic from the nine tourist regions, measured on the basis of the nights spent by domestic guests, was able to increase for seven regions. Ladies and gentlemen, After presenting national data, please allow us to direct our attention to the Balaton region, which is the second most important tourist destination in Budapest.In 2014, 1 million 445 thousand people spent 4 million 887 thousand guest nights in commercial accommodations in Balaton. In particular, there is a 4% increase in domestic guest nights. The number of domestic guests visiting Lake Balaton was close to 1 million to 100,000, while the number of foreign guests amounted to 360,000. In view of these figures, it is safe to say that the country's number one tourist destination for domestic guests is Lake Balaton. If you look at this on a municipal level, you can see that in the ranking of guest nights at Lake Balaton, three of the first ten settlements I represent are in the constituencies of Siófok: the second Siófok in the Balaton region, with more than 700 thousand guest nights, and then the fifth Zamárdi in the fifth place with nearly 250 thousand and the sixth place Balatonszemes. It should also be a positive result that, in addition to traditional sending countries such as Germany, Austria or Russia, we have received 2 thousand more guests from Slovakia, 3 thousand from the Czech Republic and around 4500 from Poland. This represents a 38 per cent increase for Polish guests, a nearly 14 per cent increase for Slovaks and an 11 per cent increase for Czech tourists. It is also important to point out that from outside Europe, such as China, in 2014 there were 1,600 more visitors to Lake Balaton than before. With regard to Hungarian tourism, it is important to note that the Széchenyi rest card introduced by the second Orbán government is now accepted by about 80 percent of the existing accommodations in Balaton, with a quarter of the total accommodation fees in these accommodations being paid by this payment instrument, worth some 4.2 billion HUF. Thanks to the conscious development of tourism products and infrastructure, we can also say that Lake Balaton can now appear on the market with quality and attractive offers for all four seasons. The tourist attractiveness of Lake Balaton can be significantly enhanced by the strengthening of areas that did not receive adequate publicity during previous periods and the lack of development resources has prevented them from exploiting their full potential. Such areas may include Balaton wine and gastroculture, cycling opportunities, strengthening conference or even religious tourism. Fortunately, recent developments have already made significant progress in these areas in our region. Ladies and gentlemen, The strengthening of tourism and an even more successful, attractive Balaton is not only in the interest of the people living there, but also in the interest of the whole country. That is why it is important to be aware of our options and make every effort to develop them. I hope that the positive changes in tourism in recent years will continue in the future, and thus tourist zones such as Lake Balaton and its surroundings can offer both people and their families a safe livelihood and a predictable future. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-29-384	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a restful good night. [[Meeting ended at 0.30 a.m.]]
