u2015-03-05-0	Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Today there will be a general debate on ten international treaties. In accordance with established practice, during the debate, the speeches by its authors and representatives are significantly shorter than usual. Having reviewed today's list of candidates, I noted that the factions only indicated a speaker's speech for a single presentation, so I will address only the speakers who have been announced and I would ask that, if anyone wishes to speak, they should press a button. I would ask the representatives of the wallets to monitor the course of each debate in order to avoid a trial break. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the draft law on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information will follow. The submission is T/2918. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-03-05-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The exchange of classified information may be necessary in criminal cooperation between countries, and it is therefore desirable that countries provide an equivalent level of protection for classified information in order to ensure adequate protection. After the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of classified information, professional work was started to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries. As a first step towards achieving this goal, the bilateral classified data protection agreement concluded with the Slovak Republic entered into force in 2012. Since then, Parliament has discussed the adoption of several bilateral classified data protection agreements. The Convention now to be published was signed by representatives of the two States on 8 September 2014. Its primary objective is to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between the two countries. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties, designate the competent authorities and provide for the standardisation of each national classification level and for the procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear Parliament, The conclusion of the agreement will contribute to strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and the fight against national security, international organised crime and terrorism, including the security of the citizens of the two countries and the two countries. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-05-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There are two items on the agenda to announce the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, one with the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the other with the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. I would therefore like to point out to the President that, in a speech, I would like to present the position of the MSZP on the two proposals and legislative proposals, so that I do not wish to take the opportunity to take the lead speaker's speech on the next item. Dear House, In 2009, the Hungarian Parliament adopted by a large majority the Act on the Protection of Qualified Data, which completely renewed and re-regulated the Hungarian secret protection system. The law, which entered into force on 1 April 2010, fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary. It has created a single legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information and has also fulfilled our most important legal harmonisation obligations. In our view, the law has stood the test of time, it has met all the fundamental objectives set by the legislator and laid down a uniform set of requirements for the protection of both national and foreign classified information. The number of highly classified data has been radically reduced, the certification process has been modernised, the four-level damage-based rating system has been fully adapted to national classified data by eliminating state secrets and the institution of service secrecy. The State Secret and Service Secret Register leading to automaticism has been removed and instead the concept of public interest that can be protected by classification has been introduced. The five principles laid down by the law were basically incorporated into the legislation by analogy with NATO and the European Union's security regulations; these are the principles of necessity and proportionality, the principle of necessary knowledge, the principle of confidentiality, the principle of inviolability and availability. However, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the decision taken by the Constitutional Court in February this year, which stated the Parliament's failure to assess the content of the data rating in the event of the classification of public data in the public interest or public interest. The law should be amended by the deadline set by the Constitutional Court on 31 May this year. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Hungarian Socialist Party is ready to consider this amendment of the law and will support the adoption of the amendment, obviously depending on its content, with appropriate professional preparation and political coordination. Indeed, the agreement with the two states on the agenda, as the Secretary of State said, is in line, since such an agreement has already been concluded with France, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia as well as with Poland. These are the two legislative proposals that the Parliament is going to discuss today. I would like to point out that the Hungarian Socialist Party supports bilateral international agreements based on a secret law adopted by consensus in 2009 that allow the safe handling and exchange of classified information. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-05-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one has applied for another keynote speaker, so we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I am asking if there are any other speakers. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity of the LMP Group.
u2015-03-05-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposals before us are the continuation of similar agreements with the former Slovak, Czech, Polish, French, Latvian and Austrian governments on the exchange and protection of classified information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Albania and Macedonia. The LMP considers these conventions necessary and supportive, as all countries that consider it their task to guarantee the safety of their citizens need them. A country of the size and position of Hungary needs agreements that allow the exchange of classified information, and hopefully we will be able to manage any threats affecting the interests of the Hungarian people as effectively as possible. The situation of Hungary, its interests and the protection of its citizens can only be ensured by finding allies and friends. [[9.10]] It would be good if the government's foreign policy was a partner of Hungary's interests. It would be good if such agreements and similar agreements were not to remain without weight just because, finding Hungary an unreliable ally, other countries would see an opportunity to hold back important information concerning us. Therefore, in the hope that, sooner or later, there will be consistency between Hungarian foreign policy and those undertaken in official agreements, the LMP supports these agreements. However, I would like to warn the government of two things. First of all, we do not want to hear that in these conventions, the government side would see only the possibility of supporting its latest invention, the obviously planned alarm with immigrants. Secondly, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, when it comes to classified information, this government is slowly re-encrypting everything that comes into your hands. Please do not confuse the public interest in security with the political interests of the government side at the moment. I'm not sure what's good for you to keep a secret is good if it's also secret from the Hungarian people. Allow me to remind the government side of the important decision taken by the Constitutional Court the other day that there is a legislative constitutional failure because the legislator has not created constitutional guarantees to ensure that the content of classified data can be reviewed in relation to requests for data of general interest. While there is information on one side that is indeed in Hungary's interest to keep in public, LMP expects the government not only to signify the terms of encryption but also to comply with the constitutional requirement for access to information. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-05-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, from the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-05-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In addition to the professional arguments, I would like to point out that these conventions are of particular importance to Hungary. I believe that any step towards the Balkans that strengthens our security, is to be supported and not only to be supported, but also to be extended as far as possible. The fact is, this House, that the small farmer's position, which I am trying to consistently represent here in this House, is clearly in Hungary's interest not to participate in various actions on a military basis within an alliance, but to guarantee our security. Since NATO is the one that can and can guarantee Hungary's safety in the first place, I am convinced that in the given situation, the types of contracts and cooperation that allow Hungary to have access to and exchange secrets for which we would otherwise not have the means and opportunities, are therefore of particular importance. I therefore believe that these should be used and used to the fullest possible extent. I would just like to note that when I said that I was a small farmer, my socialist fellow Members smiled palely. I think that if they had to smile at something, they would have to smile at their own situation. In a situation in which certain government actions are compulsively supported which are inevitable and unavoidable, but which at the same time constantly and regularly seek to take counter-measures. I think that we should think about this once, and not whether a remnant party still has the opportunity to try to show some kind of geeky attitude in the given situation and situation. Dear House, Yes, there are different views in this House, and these views are right here; here is the place for the socialist view, here is the place for the right-wing views, and, of course, here is the place I believe is also the position of the small farmer that I am consistently trying to represent, not just in this case, in all other matters. In this particular situation, I thought it was particularly important for me to come and speak, because this is about Hungary's security. And strengthening Hungarian security is now the top priority of this government. It is possible to comment on whether the government will use it to obtain information on immigration. Well, that's his job. Your job is to get the information that represents the protection of the country. Therefore, I think that, if I have expanded slightly, I have obviously gone beyond what is in this legislation, and I would ask you to take this into account that I am convinced that, in the case at hand, all such small and larger steps by the government are for the benefit of the country, and this should be supported.
u2015-03-05-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-05-9	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Very briefly; my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, in particular, has inspired me to speak. I agree with what my fellow Member said, and I am very sorry that Minister Csaba Hende is not here, because yesterday we were discussing whether there is neutrality within NATO, so whether we can place Hungarian security as the first and most important aspect as the main reason and argument for all negotiations and participation in all missions. I believe that what my small master said is exactly what we think is that the main objective is to guarantee the security of Hungary, whether it be the international treaty or participation in one mission. As NATO members, forcing us to participate in certain missions is clearly impossible. Our only obligation is that if any NATO member country is attacked, we should consider that we were attacked and we trust it, although we are a little sceptical, but if Article 5 is complied with by all the Member States, they will act in the same way in the event of an attack on Hungary. Obviously, there is a debate between us about how strong this guarantee is, but it is written down and theoretically binding on all NATO countries. Csaba Hende, on the other hand, said yesterday that there is virtually no such thing as a pursuit of neutrality within NATO, and in fact the steps of the government show that the Hungarian foreign policy and the Hungarian defence are guided by the need to participate in as many missions as possible and to comply with NATO leadership and stronger countries. So let us not participate in a mission without obligation, but we ourselves, Hungary, can be put at risk. The main aspect is the protection of Hungary. For these contracts, I would like to add that, of course, if this increases security, these may be necessary. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, although I have read the contract, but I would also like to make sure that it is properly verified that on the part of the user - I am obviously thinking, if, let us say, to the Republic of Albania or to the Republic of Macedonia, but this can not only come up from the point of view of these two countries, but also in all cases where we pass classified information, there must be some kind of control that they use in an appropriate way. Of course, I understand that it is written in the contract that it cannot be used for any other purpose, that it cannot be handed over to a third party, but I urge the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Interior to use all possible methods - I do not know whether the storehouse may or may not include secret service tools, and then Mr Secretary of State is likely to respond to whether these uses comply with this contract; and not only does it comply with the statement of the other party, but the Hungarian State, the Ministry of Interior or other bodies are able to verify this, but we would certainly expect that data which may be landed with a third party, or, if this is the case, there would be sufficient action on the part of the Hungarian authorities. So, in conclusion or summing up, I would like to say that the safety of Hungary is based on any such action, whether it is the issue of data or the collection of data, and I very much ask that in any case, even in individual cases, a kind of consideration be made, and indeed, only in cases where this is justified, targeted and would facilitate the safety of Hungary. In the meantime, of course, we also know that only those who give something can get it, but it is very important that the control system works. As I have said, in these classified cooperations, as in defence cooperation, as my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács said, Hungary's security should be the main objective. We will continue to stand by - and we will continue to argue with Csaba Hende on this - that we can also take a neutral, more independent position and a more peaceful position within NATO, and that does not mean that we should be involved in missions that do not strengthen Hungary's security by taking on our responsibilities or, more precisely, as an additional obligation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.20]]
u2015-03-05-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches. I would like to inform my fellow Members that a two-minute speech per faction can be made in this round. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group.
u2015-03-05-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the suggestion of my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, that this remaining party here is, after all, the second largest group in the Hungarian Parliament, unlike small farmers. In the last two interim elections, he once won the elections with his own candidate and at other times as a supporter, unlike the Little Farmers' Party, which did not start in these elections. But I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the opposition. Obviously, when we receive proposals such as these two legislative proposals, which are indeed in the interest of the Hungarian nation, we will support them, which we will not, and we will not. I'm sure you remember your opposition period. I'm asking you to consider that, too. So we are in favour of these legislative proposals. Obviously, if we have something that does not serve Hungary's interests, we do not support them. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-05-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Members who spoke in the debate for their comments on the support for the bill. I trust that this will also mean votes in favour in the vote, and that this House will accept T/2918. Bill No. 1. As far as the issue of Hungarian security interests is concerned, I would like to reassure the speaker, the House and the public that this bill is in line with Hungary's national interests and is in line with Hungary's security interests. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-05-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the draft law on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information will follow. The submission is T/2919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-03-05-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government is committed to concluding as many bilateral agreements as possible for successful crime prevention and law enforcement, as this will contribute to the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Like the former agreement between Hungary and Albania, the convention before this House, signed by Hungary and the Republic of Macedonia, is also about the protection of classified information. The Agreement was signed by representatives of the two States on 4 July 2014. The primary purpose of this agreement is to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between the two countries. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties and designate the competent authorities. It provides for uniform national classification levels and for a procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. The conclusion of the agreement also contributes to the effectiveness and strengthening of cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation, international organised crime and the fight against terrorism, and I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill currently under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-05-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a written speech, I would like to remind you that Mr Tóth, from the MSZP Group, has already presented the position of their group in his speech as a speaker on the previous agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask again if anyone would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to present a position on what has been said above, once the agenda is closed. Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Just one sentence. As several people have indicated their views on this bill during the previous agenda, and it was also a supportive position, which I would like to thank you for, I would ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal with their vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-05-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the amendment and supplementing of the Convention between the Government of the Hungarian Republic and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the readmission of persons at the common state border, signed on 12 September 2002 in Budapest, will follow. The submission is T/3407. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The creation of readmission agreements in Hungary and in the European Union is becoming increasingly important in the ever-increasing illegal migration situation. The purpose of these agreements is to facilitate the return and return of persons residing illegally in the territory of the Contracting States. Hungary has concluded bilateral readmission agreements with most European countries in the last 25 years, including with the Slovak Republic in 2002. Almost 13 years have passed since the conclusion of the previous agreement, the changes that took place during this period, including the accession of the two parties to the EU and the change of the name of Hungary under the Fundamental Law, made it necessary to amend, clarify or supplement the text of the Convention. The Amending Convention was signed in Brussels on 5 December 2014. Dear Parliament, This bill is in line with Hungary's national interests and international obligations, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-05-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-03-05-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I may, I too, like our previous Deputy Group Leader Bertalan Tóth, would like to share our position, since we are talking about two common agendas. At the same time, I would like to remember the Slovak-Hungarian issues which have not yet been dealt with, just because I always do, and perhaps also have a positive impact on the course of events. It would be important if progress was made in these too. Overall, we can say that the MSZP supports any proposal that significantly increases the scope of Hungarian foreign policy and the objectives that serve our common goals and the security of our country. There are two such proposals ahead of us, so the Hungarian Socialist Party can support both this and the following, because we believe that it will increase the country's room for manoeuvre and the security of our country. [[9.30]] However, although this is not a State Secretary, it is a criticism to the Ministry of Interior, but rather to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unfortunately, there are a significant number of cases concerning the Slovak-Hungarian relations that have not been a threat to relations between the two countries for a long time, but in recent years there has been no reaction to this. Since the government has announced its foreign policy turn to focus on economic policy rather than on the traditional direction of foreign policy or the direction of national policy, I think that some of the successes in this area can indeed be reported, but some of the issues that hurt a lot of us seem to have gone a little behind the table. First of all, let me talk about the fact that there are problems with Slovakia in connection with the preferential naturalisation procedure that Hungarian foreign policy has not yet managed to address. In May 2010, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the law allowing easier naturalization procedure, which was also supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. At the same time, we have said in the debate what we have been saying since the time when the bill was tabled was wrong. As regards Slovakia in particular, the leaders of the Hungarian Coalition Party also asked the government to push the adoption of the law a little further in view of the upcoming elections in Slovakia. Unfortunately, I have to say that this request was not a coincidence, as it has also become a subject of the Slovak campaign; it has adopted a counter-law in Slovakia, which has resulted in the loss of Slovak citizenship by dozens of Hungarian citizens in the Highlands. Unfortunately, these reactions were not dulled at the time. To date, it has not been established what the Hungarian government is doing for the Hungarian people who have been deprived of rights in the Highlands, what negotiations are being held between the Hungarian Government and the Slovak Government in order to put an end to this situation. It's not clear when they can get their citizenship back. I know that it is not for the Secretary of State to answer this in the first place, but I think it is important that these questions arise within the walls of this House, so that, if these issues are resolved, the members of the government can report on them here as well. At the Commission's hearing on 4 June 2014, Minister-designate Navracsics said in the Committee on National Inclusion: "The primary objective of foreign policy is to promote national interests and to promote the national interests of Hungary, the Hungarian nation, which means that if this is why we have to engage in conflict, then we will undertake the conflict. In comparison with this, these conflict commitments have, I must say, remained behind in this area ever since. All the more reason they didn't show up, because there might have been a chance they wouldn't have missed. In less than a month's time, on 30 June, following the Commission's hearing, Tibor Navracsics will meet the Slovak Head of State, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister in Bratislava, holding a joint press conference, where our then foreign minister will tell us that everyday Slovak-Hungarian relations work well. This is somewhat in conflict with what we saw earlier. At the committee meeting, the Minister-designate said that Slovakia is the only neighbouring country, and we can even say that the only country on the planet Earth that has a problem with Hungarian preferential localization, but not only with Hungarian preferential localization, but also with regard to the institution of dual citizenship in general. Unfortunately, that is not true, because even Ukraine has a problem with that. But I have to say, this problem still exists. The MSZP constantly urges the Hungarian party to draw attention to the problems that burn us in connection with such international agreements. I think it's not primarily the Ministry of the Interior, it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We understand that there has been no mention of these issues in Bratislava, and although Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén has been asked many times to take action on the issue of disenfranchised Hungarians, there has been no progress in this. It is all the more painful, because Slovakia deprives its citizens of its rights under a law that is contrary to its own constitution. We have repeatedly called attention to this and repeatedly asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take action. [[Károly Kontra: Mr President! This is not the subject of this proposal.]] I think it is also important to draw attention to the fact that Slovakia has not had a designated minority government commissioner for a year. There has been progress in the Slovak-Hungarian relationship, this is a fact, compared to which several plans for the construction of the Ipoly Bridge have been removed from the Hungarian agenda. I think that when we talk about these issues, as we are before us now, we cannot leave without saying that the Hungarian Government is ignoring these issues. When Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said earlier that a new chapter is about to begin in the joint history of Hungary and Slovakia, Slovakia and Hungary are looking forward to successful years, we expressed our conviction that these successful years will end with these problems being solved; the issue of disenfranchised Hungarian citizens will be resolved, the question of Slovak language law will be resolved, and the issues that continue to be oversuffering Slovakia, such as Malina Hedvig's Calvary, will be resolved. At the same time, it must be said that these proposals, which are in front of us, I think that Hungarian-Slovak relations are moving forward in the right direction, increasing Hungary's foreign policy space. I would like to ask, or rather wish to wish the Hungarian Government, that in the near future it will also bring the solutions to these problems I have mentioned here, so that in a very positive comment I am pleased that further significant progress has been made in the Slovak-Hungarian relations. In the meantime, I can say that these two proposals before us are supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-05-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to say to my fellow Members that, although there is a general debate, I still ask with due respect that we stick to the agenda. I also wanted to signal this to Mr. Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-03-05-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik would like to give its views on the two proposals on the Slovak Republic, since they are not at all close to each other. Therefore, we wish to present our professional comments in separate comments. So for the first time, I would like to say a few thoughts on the readmission agreement before us, which was concluded in 2002 and the 2004 VII Convention. it amends the convention announced by law, which was established between the Hungarian and the Slovak Republic in relation to the readmission of persons at a common state border. The changes that are included in this are largely technical, but there are some of them that we can positively appreciate. We consider the amendment of Article 4 (5) to be positive, which regulates anomalies around the rejection of the readmission application. In the past, the applicant party's readmission application could be rejected even without justification, but now the refusal must be justified. A further eligible change is that if no reply is received in the course of an extension of the deadline, regulated under the Convention, readmission shall be deemed to be accepted. These amendments, although tightening up the obligations imposed by the Agreement on signatories, are necessary and even essential for the Convention to achieve its objective. Although it does not belong directly to this, I would also like to refer in two sentences to the fact that when we talk about our foreign policy on the Slovak Republic, it must be a strong and exponential representation of national policy and the interest of our ripped brothers in the highlands. We have expressed our views on this in many forums, so I would not go into the details this time. Overall, what I would like to say about the agreement is that we can basically support its publication, as we are confident that it will help to complicate readmission issues between the two countries even more easily and quickly, in view of the increase in the level of illegal immigration in particular. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-05-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, who also asked for an opportunity to speak in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman. [[9.40]]
u2015-03-05-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The LMP supports the proposal before the House, which clarifies an old agreement between Hungary and Slovakia before Schengen accession. The amendment to the 2002 Convention on readmission at the common border is, in our opinion, in line with what can be expected of the two Member States of the European Union. Once again, we are faced with a situation where it turns out that there would be more opportunities for the government to take meaningful steps, if it did not use its energies to mislead Hungarian people and scare them with dangers that would be solved not by manipulation, but by smart cooperation. Therefore, while this convention is supported by the LMP, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if not short-term political gain, the daily tactic would not define government policy, then problems with immigrants could also be dealt with in substance. This time, too, we do not want to see the government choosing unwarranted hard work rather than looking for the possibility of a wider change at EU level, which would serve our simple human duty to support those in need of help, while also being able to jointly represent Hungarian and EU interests. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-05-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-05-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to add a few additions to the proposal and to address questions to the rapporteur. What I do not understand first of all, Mr Secretary of State, is that through the 2002 Convention, and we joined the European Union in 2004, why the revision of this took more than ten years. Obviously, after EU accession, the legal environment in which we can think has changed completely, since we are no longer talking about EU countries in third countries; while before this was applicable in Europe, it must be applied in a completely different legal environment. Therefore, the whole point and purpose of the Convention have changed. I am not saying that it cannot be applied, although, in this form, that, in fact, for more than ten years, such an uneven, in some cases contrary or contrary to European Union law has lived this convention, it is not necessarily good. Obviously, criticism not only lives towards you, since since 2004 there has not been a continuous Fidesz government, but I'm sensing a slight slippage here, but it's better later than never, they say. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, which may be important, and here I would like to join my fellow Member Ikotity in part in the fact that the issue requires a pan-European settlement. Of course, we'd be heading for rigor. Of course, if a person's refugee status is real and actually comes into the country as a refugee, it requires special treatment, but this is only a fraction of the cases, as we discussed during the refugee debate day. In connection with this convention, too, it can be said that the asylum issues are a little more involved in what will happen once both Germany and Austria start to apply the EU rules that people who have applied for asylum in Hungary, who, let's say, later turns out that these asylum applications are groundless, so we can only talk about a kind of economic immigrants, and before the decision is made, they will go further to Western countries, say, Germany, Germany, and Germany will start sending them back to the country where they joined the European Union. In this case, Hungary, or, if you look at the Hungarian problems, Hungary, which will mean that if you look at the statistics of the past years, you can send back immigrants whose refugee status has fallen or has been evaluated and they have not been granted refugee status. This is a huge problem, and it is actually possible to see from this convention why the situation needs to be resolved at European Union level. I am not sure, and I am even sure that in this state, we will suffer ill if Germany and the Western States start applying the legislation in force. We won't know what to do with these immigrants who might be deported. On this day of debate, it could be an appropriate argument that they are moving on anyway, we are not a country of destination, a transit country. That is true, they can only send these people back here under EU rules. Not by way of derogation from the subject, but I must say so at the end of my speech - because I do not want to extend it too long - we are very pleased that the MSZP also deals with Hungarian national issues. We would have been very happy if this had happened when the MSZP was still on the steering wheel. [[Lajos Korózs: We dealt with it in 2008!]] For example, the Hungarian beatings took place in 2008, and nothing has happened since then. The Slovaks could say that these Hungarian beats were absolutely justified; this was the official decision. It is, of course, possible to smile at this, as our MSZP colleagues did when they were on the government. Of course, Fidesz would have expected that after they came to power in 2010, they would have had to settle these situations harder with the Slovak party. Indeed, citizenship issues, the language law, are included. I don't want to get into it in more detail. These are laws which are not only against Slovakia's own constitution, but certainly also EU law. So, not in detail, but I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that the apparatus of the Ministry of Interior, and when international treaties and obligations are laid down, in addition to the otherwise useful contracts, be able to force Slovakia to comply with European Union law, or even to indicate that, in relation to the provisions which deprive Hungarians of rights, at least try to comply with their own Slovak constitution. So I wanted to use that supplement. I ask the Secretary of State to forward these wishes. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-05-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-05-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond first to László Kiss's comment. Thank you for supporting the bill. Allow me to respond very briefly to the thoughts of the Hungarian-Slovak relations other than those related to the legislative proposals. I would like to say that Hungary's Government acts according to the interests of Hungary and the Hungarians living in Slovakia in Hungarian-Slovakian bilateral relations, bearing in mind the development of bilateral relations. As regards the problems raised, matters relating to preferential localization, let me say, Mr President, that the Hungarians in Slovakia would be in a much easier position, but, overall, the Hungarians across the border and the current Hungarian government in these cases, had you not taken a negative attitude on 5 December 2004 in the case of the referendum on dual citizenship, by pushing Hungarians across the border away from the Hungarians, thereby putting not only the Hungarian government, Hungary, but primarily the Hungarians beyond the border, in a situation that requires a long period of time. In any case, the adoption of the 2010 law, which, by adopting the preferential localization, created the possibility of acquiring Hungarian citizenship for Hungarians in Slovakia and beyond, was a significant step forward, but again, if you had not pushed Hungarians across the border from Hungary on 5 December 2004, we could have been much more effective, and their lives, the lives and everyday life of Hungarians, Hungarians beyond the border, would have been better. At the same time, I would like to say once again that our position is that the Hungarian government is doing everything it can to improve relations between Hungarians across the border and, in particular, Hungarian-Slovak relations, in the interests of Hungarians across the border. Congressman Gábor Staudt honors me if you listen and don't turn your back on me. Thank you very much for your support... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: No, no, I'm not turning my back, I'm just consulting with Tibor Bana.]] - Parliament is a very important area for this, by the way - thank you for your support. As regards your fears about illegal migration and your questions, I would like to say that that is exactly what the debate was about, that is what the national consultation is about to be prepared for if this situation, whether it concerns migration in Hungary, can occur with a significant change in Austrian or German policy or German position. [[9.50]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the German Foreign Minister, as I recall, discussed this week on Monday with the Minister of Interior in Kosovo, has made the German position clear. So Hungary is doing the right thing, the Hungarian government is doing the right thing, the Hungarian Parliament is doing the right thing if it is preparing for this situation, and this is what the national consultation is about, so that we can submit proposals to Parliament so that Hungary is prepared for this situation, and that we can make decisions that correspond to Hungarian national interests. I would also like to thank Mr István Ikotity for his support for the bill, and I would like to ask the House to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The opportunity to submit amendments is today at 4 p.m. and I would like to inform my fellow Members that the same deadline applies to the previous agenda. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the amendment and supplementing of the Convention between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the prevention of cross-border crime and the fight against organised crime signed in Bratislava on 2 October 2006 will follow. The submission is T/3408. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the Member States has been highlighted in the European Union. This was justified by the transformation of organised crime, the increase in the number of cross-border crimes, the emergence of new forms of crime and the need for security in the Schengen area without internal borders. As a result, since its accession to the European Union, Hungary has put even more emphasis on the establishment of international treaties on cooperation in criminal matters. In our experience, these agreements also contribute to strengthening cooperation between law enforcement agencies and thus to effective and effective action against terrorism and organised crime. The Convention that is now to be published is an amendment and complement to an earlier Convention that was concluded in 2006. The changes are justified by the practical experience gained in the period after the entry into force and by Hungary and the Slovak Republic becoming full Schengen members. The Convention was signed in Brussels on 5 December 2014. As a result, for example, cross-border surveillance, cross-border persecution and possible areas of joint border patrol will be expanded. Cooperation between Hungarian and Slovak law enforcement agencies is further strengthened. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I would like to inform you that Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, has already expressed the group's position on the previous item on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-05-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As I referred to in my previous keynote speaker's speech, the Jobbik Group would like to present its position on this convention separately, on the one hand, because it concerns a completely different area than the previous agreement, and, on the other hand, because we have a more nuanced approach to this agreement. We can see that this amending agreement was tabled by the Government with the aim of ensuring that the 2006 XCI was concluded in 2006. amend the agreement announced by law, which was concluded between the Hungarian and Slovak Republic in the area of cross-border cooperation on crime and organised crime. Here, too, we can mainly talk about technical changes. There are some positive changes that we can specifically support, but there are also some amendments that we have some concerns about. These will be explained in more detail by my fellow Staudt Gábor faction. With regard to the amendment of Article 2 (1) of the Convention, we have a fundamentally positive attitude, since in the past, only in the case of criminal offences where there was a penalty of at least one year, the current change removes this lower limit. A change to Article 12 (1) may be referred to as such. However, when I referred to the strong concern that we have, I was referring, among other things, to this amendment, because the investigation of persons who may have been accused of committing a deliberate crime can already be carried out in the territory of the partner country, even in the case of criminality of one year instead of the previous five-year criminality limit, which may, of course, be a good one, but in some respects, we have concerns about this matter. With regard to the new paragraph (2) introduced in Article 13, we also consider the change that appears fundamentally positive, as this allows for cross-border persecution in cases where a person withdraws from the alien, border police or other police investigation, and this amendment is likely to speed up captures, thus reducing the number of road threats posed by refugees. Unfortunately, we can remember such examples from recent times. I would also like to refer to the amendment of Article 19 (1). As the Secretary of State has said, this amendment extends the territorial boundaries of the joint patrol service, as it will be 20 kilometers away from 10 kilometers where this can be achieved and can be further expanded with a separate agreement. This amendment may be extremely important in order to strengthen the security of border villages, so we are also fundamentally positive about this. So, as I briefly tried to sum up, there are a number of elements that the Jobbik faction can support, but we have also expressed our concerns about the proposal. There are some forward-looking changes here in the amending agreement that will result in closer cooperation between the Hungarian and Slovak authorities and can actually increase the sense of security of the people living in the border settlements, but then, Mr Secretary of State, our proposals, which will be supplemented by my fellow Group Mr Gábor Staudt, will be answered, and then we will be able to establish our position on the support of the convention. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-05-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, and we are now continuing our work with speeches by our representatives. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2015-03-05-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Cross-border crime is an increasing problem and is causing more and more damage to Hungary. To say nothing else, the question of the NAV scandal, national-scale VAT fraud, has yet to be left out. It is not clear why the announcement of the Cooperation Agreement caused a seven-year delay. What is the reason why this step is only taking place now? It would be in Hungary's interest to give the authorities all the means to combat cross-border crime effectively, but it also needs to have the political will to make such agreements an effective instrument. The LMP supports the proposal, but we do so with the expectation that the government and the authorities it manages, which will also increase their opportunities thanks to the agreement before them, will finally act effectively against cross-border crime that is damaging to all of us. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-05-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-05-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the fight against terrorism is a very important thing, but in America, as in other parts of the world, we can see that sometimes, under this pretense, restrictions are introduced that can be considered excessive and point to the state's infinite need for data, an infinite collection of data. In fact, there is a demand on the part of the state, the public authorities, to know about everyone, to collect data about everyone, any information that the state cannot find out about will be almost suspicious, and it may appear that there is terrorism or organised crime here. [[10.00]] So it is very important when we are living in such a time - and the fight against terrorism is really important, so I would like to state this - to find the right balance between detecting terrorist acts and guaranteeing the freedoms of citizens. I know that in many cases this is a very interesting and very spicy area, because it can always be said that it is indeed the state's need to know about everyone and everything, it is because of the prevention of terrorism, but often it is overshooting, and we do not want it to actually go towards a kind of - what we can see in the United States - a soft dictatorship, because, indeed, when we collect all the data and record everything, and we can observe anyone, it points a little towards the Orwell world, and we are actually going to achieve exactly what we are avoiding. So it must be through such glasses, I think, that such conventions should be examined, and the main aspect must be that, indeed, the persecution of organised crime and terrorism is carried out, and, as they say, the knife should not run over. Why do I have some doubts? I will tell you honestly about Article 5; and if Mr Secretary of State can convince me, then, of course, this attitude can change. But the point that now extends the possibility of investigating or reconnaissance activities in one country - this could be any investigative activity, or even a secret gathering of information - can also be carried out in the territory of another country, must be a provision with very important warranty restrictions, as it is actually about the possibility that, where appropriate, Slovak authorities may continue to carry on their activities in Hungary. This should therefore be limited to what is required and necessary in the context of organised crime and terrorism. Now, what I don't see is how reducing from five years to one year will help. So if you can tell me about a terrorist act or a crime related to organised crime that is actually punishable for a year, so it falls into the category 0-1 Btk., because in this case, we would open this cross-border operation even for one year, then I would be happy to do so; but if this is not the case, then this provision can be used not only in connection with terrorism and organised crime. I am also skeptical, especially when it comes to Slovakia, because it has developed in international practice - of course it can be denied, but everyone knows what we are talking about - a strange reciprocity practice here with neighbouring countries that usually Hungary is always more willing to make requests, whether they belong to political or other areas, as the other party does. And I say that from diplomacy to legal cooperation, because we always try to be good guys: that if we make discounts, then the surrounding states - and thus also Slovakia - will return these preferences to us; if I underline it with the minorities living here, which is very right, in a fair way, it is an important thing and we support it - then the surrounding countries will do the same. They don't usually do that, and the practice is that - in an ugly way, alive - they always fool the Hungarian side, we draw the short straw. And I have such a great fear, because there is the provision that the state in whose territory this is taking place should contribute to the continuation of investigative activities and exploratory activities, so that it does not happen that we will always contribute, so when a request comes from the Slovak party - I say, I would stress that the deliberate crimes that can be criminalized for a year are already in this area, so this is in fact the entire storehouse of the Hungarian Btk. - so whatever such request comes from the Slovaks, I fear that the Hungarian party will give it easily, and the Slovaks can easily say to a Hungarian request that it is not. From then on, I find it difficult to guarantee that such a pass cannot be used for political observation, if necessary. So let's say that someone in Felvidék is being watched by the authorities there, because of their belonging to the Hungarians or because of their political activities, based on their opinion, on any passage they consider, and he, let's say, comes to Hungary, either to gain protection, and to get out of this net, and he, let's say, should not be observed because of his public activities, then, if the Hungarian party agrees, this observation may continue. So that's the kind of fear I have. And it would have been better if a guarantee element appeared in this law that it was indeed limited to organised crime, terrorism or more serious crimes, because the wording that, on the one hand, a member of an organised criminal group, it was okay, or that it could be suspected of committing a deliberate crime for at least one year - who says that it cannot be easily bypassed from the Slovak part, and that it cannot be found in Slovak criminal law that someone is suspected of being convicted, not even sentenced to court, but that the law enforcement agencies there say that they are living with a suspicion, then this process can start - we would have expected more guarantees than that. And I would stress that if we talked about such a convention even in the case of Austria, it would be possible to say that fair cooperation and guarantees of the rule of law can work; I am afraid that in the case of Slovakia, as we have seen over the past period, we cannot rely on the Slovak party, and Hungary must enforce these guarantees. In this passage, I do not see this happening, but, of course, as I have said, the Secretary of State should express his opinion; it would be best if, even here in the debate, there was a response to this. And, of course, we can be persuaded, but I find that a bit of a concern. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-05-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-05-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, What I consider perfectly normal, however, is that opposition representatives say that they see certain points of concern; I think it is important that they express their views in the debate, either in plenary or in the Commission debate, and express their concerns. But I would like to reassure my fellow opposition Members that this proposal is in line with Hungary's national interests and serves the security of the Hungarian people. As regards the comment or question made by Member István Ikotity - I regret that he is not here, but I am responding to this - why the announcement has only just been made. I would like to say that this is a bilateral international treaty, the creation of which requires two parties, and this has now been concluded, on 5 December 2014 and, compared to that, today, on 5 March, the proposal is before the House. As regards Mr Staudt Gábor's concerns, questions and doubts about Article 5, I would like to say the following answer. Article 5 provides that investigations may be conducted in another country only if the other party agrees in advance. It's inside, so I think it's a guarantee. The contribution may be subject to a condition and may therefore be subject to a condition. So I think that you should trust the Hungarian authorities so much that they will represent Hungarian national interests and give the preliminary consent if these conditions are met. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this convention is primarily against cross-border crime and not against terrorism. It is clear that all possible legal instruments against terrorism must be used, but this Convention is about combating cross-border crime. I believe that there are numerous guarantees in the law, which complies with both international and domestic law, and we have also taken into account international practice. So I can kindly recommend to this House that you support and accept this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[10.10]]
u2015-03-05-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft legislation between Hungary and the Republic of Albania on the publication of the Convention on Social Security until its closure. The submission is T/2923. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Zombor, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the author of the bill. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-05-41	Mr President, Dear House, The Government of Hungary pays particular attention to gradually increasing the international weight of our country by strengthening its bilateral relations. The conclusion of bilateral international treaties will also contribute to the achievement of this objective. The Convention can be one of the keys to the development of Hungarian-Albanian relations, allowing cooperation between the two countries to take place in a new area. It is of the utmost importance that the Convention provides mutual benefits for nationals, insurance and economic operators of the Contracting Parties, with a general objective of settling bilateral social security relations. In accordance with the intention of the two Contracting Parties, the Convention primarily achieves the coordination of benefits provided under compulsory pension insurance, while extending the modern regulatory framework to the partial coordination of health insurance benefits, including, inter alia, the provision of health care during temporary stays not linked to work and coordination of the benefits of persons with disabilities. It is of crucial importance for the staff covered by the international treaty that they can obtain rights which would not be available to them in the absence of the Convention by combining periods of insurance completed under the law of the two countries. It is also important that the Convention facilitates the development of economic relations between the Contracting Parties, as it also lays down the law applicable to those persons in respect of the flow of labour relating to economic activity in another State. On the basis of the above, the Convention contains provisions concerning the law governing work in the territory of another country and lays down the principle of maintaining the rights to benefits acquired under the laws of the Contracting States in respect of the category of persons covered by the international contract. It shall also ensure, as has already been mentioned, that the persons concerned obtain entitlements in cases where, in the absence of the Convention, the autonomous application of the law of the two countries would not lead to the establishment of entitlement. Dear House, By signing the agreement, the Government of Hungary has already declared its intention to promote the interests of Hungary, our citizens and our economic actors through the conclusion of the agreement. Since the Convention is an international treaty, the Parliament's consent is necessary to recognise its binding scope. In view of this, I propose and ask this House to support the bill for the approval of the Convention by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, the first among which will be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-05-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, As the Secretary of State said, this international treaty will be concluded in the case of the two countries as a result of our membership of the European Union and on the basis of the principles set out by the European Council. From what I can see, it has six points that are very important to record. One is the applicable law; it is clearly defined in the case of work on the territory of another country or in the case of a related stay. The main rule here must be that the person employed is subject to the legislation of the place of work and the exceptions to this must be clearly set out in the agreement - I had to emphasise this. The second is that the right to benefits must be granted to both parties. The third is that the rights already acquired must be maintained and respected by both parties. The fourth point is the calculation of the eligibility periods. In the case of a pension, this is the principle of "pro rata" which speaks of nothing but the fact that everyone, as a liability party, has to finance the proportion that falls on him in the case of social security pensions. The fifth point is access to benefits for Hungary and the provision of benefits, and the sixth point is, of course, proportional burden. On the basis of this agreement, Hungary shall ensure that persons who are entitled to old-age pensions under Hungarian and Albanian law and in the event of death retain their rights, even if they acquire insurance periods in the pension insurance systems of both countries. Positions on posting should be emphasised. On this basis, the Convention allows insured workers or self-employed persons seconded to the territory of the other Contracting Party in the longer term, for a maximum of 24 months, i.e. in the case of a posting period of up to two years or in the case of self-employed activities, to remain under the jurisdiction of the State of dispatch and to retain their insurance status in that State, and to fulfil their social security obligations, in particular those relating to the payment of contributions. The Convention also rightly covers the coordination of the eligibility rules for health benefits, the benefits of persons with disabilities and the benefits relating to accidents at work and occupational diseases. I need to address the most important regulatory point for old age pensions, death and disability benefits, including in the case of people with disabilities. According to the principles of the Modern Social Security Convention, benefits are established on the basis of the. pro rata. In the event that entitlement to retirement benefits cannot be acquired on the basis of periods of service acquired in one Contracting State alone, it is possible for the competent institutions providing the care of each country to take into account the periods of service completed in the insurance scheme of the other country. I would like to point out here that if it is not possible to guarantee - for example, in the case of Hungary, for example, if you request a pension here, it will take 20 years of service to receive an old-age pension under your own law - the period of service acquired in a third country may also be included in the case of the person covered by the Convention. That's all I wanted to say. The Socialist Party supports the conclusion of the treaty. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-05-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2015-03-05-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The LMP supports the Convention because we believe that it may slightly strengthen workers' rights if they work in another country or need social assistance in another country. We recognise the desire to establish similar procedures between Hungary and Albania as they allow for social coordination within the EU. Accordingly, the State of the insurance relationship also takes into account the period of entitlement in the case of a liability, in the case of a pension, in the territory of the other country, where this is necessary to establish entitlement to benefits and is paid on the basis of the principle of proportionality. In addition to the provision of pensions, the Convention also covers the coordination of the rules on benefits and entitlements relating to health insurance, unemployment and disabled persons, as well as occupational accidents and occupational diseases. [[10.20]] We believe that this is okay, but it is far less so that, while the government enters into social agreements with other countries, it is becoming less and less so towards its own citizens. Because such an agreement is nice, it can be supported, because it brings two countries closer to each other in practical matters of everyday life, but the opposite can be seen within Hungary: the government is at first slow to back away from its own citizens, and then simply abandons solidarity, the poverty of workers continues to grow; while concluding an agreement on mutual social benefits, it forgets to what extent people in Hungary are in need of to finally live in conditions where hard work means a decent life. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, pretend that the problem does not exist and that it is just an agreement between countries that is considered automatic. Anyone who, in connection with this agreement, does not think that it is almost time to restore solidarity within Hungary, even if he calls himself representatives of Hungarian citizens. I ask you to think about this when you vote on this convention. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-05-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Gábor Zombor, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-47	Thank you very much for supporting the bill. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft legislation between Hungary and the Republic of Macedonia on the publication of the Convention on Social Insurance and Social Security until its closure. The submission is T/2921. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Gábor Sombor, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-05-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As you know, Hungary has recently concluded agreements on social security with several countries. These bilateral agreements are beneficial to us in a number of respects: on the one hand, they promote good relations with countries outside the European Union and, on the other hand, directly help to move labour between Contracting States. By coordinating our social security systems - economic relations, keeping pace with the dynamism of the labour market - we are creating the possibility of creating regulation. With regard to Hungary and the Republic of Macedonia, it was already time to redefine social security relations. The Hungarian-Yugoslav social policy agreement, which has so far been in force between the two countries, was still modern at the time of its conclusion, but the development of law has made it timely to review these rules. The preparation for the signing of the Convention was smooth with Macedonia, in a spirit of mutual cooperation, and both sides were fully committed to creating a new regulatory environment adapted to international standards adopted in Europe. The Convention expresses important principles such as a clear definition of the applicable law in the case of work and stay in the territory of another country, the right to benefits, the maintenance of rights already acquired, but the rule of calculating the period of entitlement, access to benefits outside Hungary and the declaration of proportionate burden. Under these principles, the Convention ensures the preservation of the rights of persons entitled to old-age and death pensions under Hungarian and Macedonian law, even if they acquire insurance periods in the pension insurance systems of both countries. The Convention also allows workers or self-employed persons who are posted to the territory of the other Contracting Party to remain under the jurisdiction of the State of dispatch and to retain their insurance status in that State, to fulfil their social security obligations, in particular the payment of contributions, in the longer term, up to 24 months. The scope of the Convention also covers the coordination of the eligibility rules for benefits relating to health insurance benefits, the benefits of persons with disabilities and accidents at work and occupational diseases. The treaty has already been signed between our country and the Republic of Macedonia. As an international treaty, recognition of its binding scope requires the decision of the Parliament. In view of this, I ask this House to support the bill, from which Hungary can only benefit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by its representatives, the first among which will be the speeches by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-05-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I will try to be brief, since the Albanian-Hungarian agreement is not much different from the Macedonian-Hungarian agreement in substance, but it is desirable in an unsearched sentence: Mr Secretary of State, be so kind as to urge the Government to negotiate the Ukrainian-Hungarian treaty, and the negotiation has already been concluded, its signature, because we have been waiting for this for five years now. Hungary had such social agreements with most neighbouring countries in the late 50s and early 60s, including the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia. As successor states, we have inherited these conventions and, quite rightly, after a renegotiation, a new convention will be adopted. I don't want to repeat what I said earlier, but I am still going to discuss the accounts for health institutions, because this is a meaningful chapter. In the case of sickness and maternity benefits in cash and in kind, the burden on the insured eligible person will be borne by the health insurance undertaking where the person is insured or is entitled, and it does not depend on the country in which the benefit is used, i.e. each party will bear the financial burden on its own insured person, taking into account the principle of insurance. I would like to mention here, for a few sentences, that, in the case of old age, death or invalidity, and benefits in the event of a change of working capacity, benefits are established in proportion, as I have mentioned in the Albanian case, on the basis of the knowledge of the principle of pro rata. In the event that entitlement to retirement benefits cannot be acquired solely on the basis of periods of service acquired in one of the Contracting States, it is also possible for the competent institutions of each country providing benefits to take into account the periods of service completed in the insurance scheme of the other country. If the entitlement still does not exist, in the same case the entitlement to a period of service acquired in a third State shall also be counted. In the context of the previous speech, I would just like to say that this must be understood as paying the proportion that falls on it. Let's say, in the case of 42 years of service, if someone in three different states acquired this period of service and acquired 3 years in one state, 20 years in the other state, in the third state, let's say 19 years, then everyone in the third state has to pay your 19th and forty-two shares, the three-forty-two and the twenty-forty-two. I took it that my fellow Member Ikotity did not quite understand that. The whole point is that the Socialist Party supports the signing of the Convention and I would like to reiterate that it is also called for the adoption of the Ukrainian-Hungarian Treaty. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-05-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zombor on Gábor's mark:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for supporting the bill. It will be worth discussing the Ukrainian-Hungarian Treaty, since there the Hungarian government has developed a separate procedure for Hungarians in Transcarpathia, even in the area of health, and I will be happy to inform the Member about this. Congressman Ikotity isn't here right now. [[10.30]] I think that the issues you're pushing may be worth talking about for a longer time. [[Lajos Korózs: But that is not the agenda!]] That's not the agenda. So I can only thank you for your support for the bill.
u2015-03-05-54	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan follows. The submission is T/2917. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-05-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fact that there has been no direct flights between Hungary and Azerbaijan over the past decades also proves the importance of the bill. However, with the opening of the East, the expansion of bilateral economic and trade relations, the intention to open direct flights was raised. In the absence of bilateral intergovernmental agreements, the two parties provided for this possibility in a Memorandum of Understanding on Air Transport on a temporary basis. The 2012 Memorandum of Understanding did not provide the airlines with sufficient legal basis for the predictable and long-term operation of flights. The need to conclude a bilateral aviation agreement has thus become more and more pronounced. The Hungarian-Azer Air Transport Agreement was signed in Budapest on 11th November 2014, with the approval of the European Commission. The agreement also regulates traffic rights to be granted to each other, the designation and licensing of airlines, the principles of the operation of regular services and the establishment of fares. It lays down the required requirements for aviation safety and safety and includes provisions in international law. It also provides for amendments to the Agreement and guidance on settlement of disputes, entry into force and termination, as provided for in Article 24. With all due respect, I ask the Parliament to accept the proposal and to support the announcement of the agreement. The text of the Agreement is naturally identical to that of the Chicago Convention adopted on 7 December 1944. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-05-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, the first among which will be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP.
u2015-03-05-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the proposal, the intention to launch direct flights was raised in 2012 with the expansion of bilateral economic and commercial relations between Hungary and Azerbaijan. In the absence of bilateral intergovernmental agreements, the two parties provided for the possibility of starting direct flights on a temporary basis in a Memorandum of Understanding on Air Transport. According to the assessment of the Azerbaijani party, this Memorandum of Understanding did not provide the airlines with sufficient legal basis for predictable long-term operations between the two countries, thus increasing the need to conclude a bilateral aviation agreement between the parties. Since the Commission of the European Union has been negotiating with Azerbaijan since 2010, the Commission has given its approval to the Hungarian party for the opening of the Hungarian-Azer air affairs negotiations. Accordingly, the Hungarian-Azer Air Transport Agreement could only be concluded with the prior approval of the Commission. On 28 October 2014, the Commission informed the Hungarian party that the initial document could be signed, so the agreement was signed in Budapest on 11 November 14. The aim of the European Union's agreement with the Republic of Azerbaijan on the establishment of a common airspace is to promote general economic, trade and tourism relations, to give market players a new opportunity and to give consumers more choice. In this context, the Commission's communication states that the development of transport links will also contribute to the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy. Given the geographical location of Azerbaijan, efficient air transport between the country and the EU is essential. Azerbaijan is strategically located at the meeting between Europe and Asia, so it is obvious that an agreement on a common European airspace will be reached. That is all I wanted to say, of course, the Socialist Party supports the announcement of the agreement. Thank you.
u2015-03-05-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Member László Kiss of the MSZP Group for further comments. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-05-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When we talk about this proposal, many people wonder how much the Azerbaijani party adheres to any agreement it enters into. This country is characterised by a total lack of freedom of speech, the use of unjustified violence, judgments on fabricated charges, forced confessions, intimidation of journalists, repression of civil society organisations, ideological propaganda, unfair elections, corruption and restrictions on freedom of religion. Obviously, the Hungarian Government does not wish to assist them, so I would like to ask the government to conclude agreements with the Azerbaijani Government that do not facilitate these events. I urge the government to stand up for European values at all times in negotiations with Azerbaijan and do not serve the further expansion of Azerbaijan's domestic political events. At the same time, I think that Hungarian-Azerian relations have raised many questions in many cases. It may be interesting to talk about the positive events of starting the Baku-Budapest flight in Hungarian foreign policy and what this relationship means for Azerbaijan. This relationship may also mean that Hungary will open its way to a country where the President's child's poem is a school curriculum and the student protesting against it can be imprisoned. Where it can be done that a human rights activist's house is illegally placed with a Candid camera, a hidden camera, and then blackmailed with the footage that was recorded there. So I ask the government to confine itself to relations with the ax murderer's country that are absolutely in the best interests of the country. Thank you for listening. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2015-03-05-60	Thank you, Congressman. My previous comment also applies to this. Many things fit into the general debate [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: The ax killer was taken home by plane!]] But I think we should stick to the agenda. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-05-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to share a few thoughts on the bill before us. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary welcomes the Air Transport Agreement between Hungary and Azerbaijan. Of course, we support the publication of this convention, because it will finally allow direct flights between the two countries, which can strengthen our economic and tourism relations, giving a great boost to our economic relations with the neighbouring countries. Azerbaijan and its region still offer plenty of opportunities for our country in foreign trade, and we must take this chance. We see the attempts that the government has made in the region over the past years with more or less success. We also know that the first trading house was opened in Azerbaijan at the end of 2012. In this context, I would like to know in considerable detail how effective this works. In fact, as I have repeatedly referred to here at the plenary session, we would like to receive some information about how the Chambers of Commerce operate overall - usually addressed these questions to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, but now I am also addressing the Secretary of State. After all, the government has set very serious expectations in connection with these openings, and they have very much hoped for them. [[10.40]] We also believe that it is important that these exist, but even in committee meetings, we would like to be informed about what is the situation here, what has been achieved, what the prospects are, and what the countries in which the government plans to open further trading houses are. In the spirit of the Eastern opening policy, the Government must make further efforts, according to Jobbik, in order to strengthen the presence of our country in the region, as these countries - not only Azerbaijan but also the neighbouring states - can provide a great market for products, and now, in the context of sanctions affecting Russia, there is further opportunities in this area as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-05-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your support. However, I would like to point out to Mr László Kiss that it is unfortunate to classify a country within the walls of the Parliament within the framework of an agenda which is otherwise entirely different. So this should be a cautionary warning to the Member, and I would also ask him not to do so the next time. And now I apologise to those who are taking this the wrong way, and also from Azerbaijan, who may now hear in some way what the Member has said. I don't think this is the place to talk about it on another agenda, but it's definitely not now. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-05-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The deadline for submitting amendments is 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea will follow until closure. The submission is T/3401. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-05-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the agreement signed in Seoul on 28 November 2014 is to provide airlines with a sound legal framework for the operation of regular services. The agreement replaces the Air Transport Agreement between the two countries signed in 1989. The new structure agreement complies with EU standards. It allows for a wider, more modern framework, the launch of regular passenger and freight flights between international airports in both countries. Cooperation can contribute to the development of economic, commercial, tourism and cultural relations, so I respectfully ask that the Parliament support the T/3401. adoption of proposal No 3 and publication of the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-05-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-05-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, With the entry into force of the agreement signed on 28 November 2014, it replaces the bilateral air transport agreement signed between the two countries in Budapest on 22 November 1989, but not published in Hungary. In the agreement signed in 1989, the parties clarified practically all major issues that would in principle have enabled the launch of air traffic between Budapest and Seoul. Among other things, the route, mutual designation, air transport freedoms, security provisions and consultation obligations between the authorities of both countries were regulated. They have agreed on rights of amendment, suspension, withdrawal or refusal, mutual statistical reporting, duty, tax and tax exemptions, as well as provisions on representation or office opening, marketing or ticket sales and currency allocation. The Air Transport Agreement contained in this bill also lays down for the parties the right of designation and control of one or more air carriers for the operation of scheduled flights on the designated routes, the withdrawal or suspension of the operating licence, the basic operating conditions of the agreed flights. The Agreement covers the regulation of customs duties and charges, certificates of competence and licences, usage charges, commercial activities, funds, fares. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-05-68	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-05-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Jobbik welcomes the increasing number of agreements and agreements concluded by the Hungarian government with eastern partners. Korea is a country that can serve as an example for Hungary, as it is one of the most dynamic developing states in Asia and the world, which is particularly at the forefront, for example, in the application of high-level technologies and research and development. Korea achieved this by still being a poor agricultural country in the '60s, and today it is almost 40 percent richer than our country in terms of GDP. We therefore welcome the Government's desire to establish a closer relationship with the Republic of Korea, which proves that today we can negotiate another agreement on this country. As far as aviation itself is concerned, we consider the steps taken in this matter and the conclusion of the Convention as a result not only of improving relations between the two countries, but also of increasing trade and tourism. Hungary is an increasingly popular destination for Asian tourists, for example, in the first two months of 2014, the number of Asian nights increased by 29 percent compared to the previous year. There may have been more recent data since then. I hope that this will change even more positively in the future. Therefore, because of the good prospects mentioned above, Jobbik's Group supports the publication of the Air Transport Agreement with the Republic of Korea, and we hope that the Government will make further efforts in the future to further strengthen relations and cultural and economic relations with the dynamically developing countries of Asia in the spirit of Eastern opening. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-05-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I wonder if anyone would like to make further comments on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Tasó, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-71	Dear Parliament, I would just like to thank you for the supporting contributions; and I have just heard one question and a suggestion, and I will also forward your request to the Member for information on the operation of the trading houses. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-05-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on mutual recognition and exchange of driving licences until closure. The submission is T/3402. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-05-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The agreement to be put out by the bill replaces the previous agreement currently in force between the two countries on mutual recognition of driving licences for road vehicles. The new agreement provides an opportunity to simplify the procedure for the naturalisation of driving licences and to further recognise driving licences issued in the Republic of Korea. Therefore, with respect, I ask the Parliament, T/3402. Please accept and support the publication of the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-05-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[10.50]]
u2015-03-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We may agree that the building of relations is done step by step, so it is between the people and the countries. The proposal before us is one of many steps with which we have already strengthened the relationship and cooperation between Hungary and the Republic of Korea. The draft law on mutual recognition of driving licences serves not only to reduce bureaucracy between the two countries but also to boost tourism and economic relations. Hungary successfully launched the Eastern Opening Policy a few years ago, which has been one of the most important pillars of our country's foreign policy ever since. In this sense, of course, we are also pursuing stronger political, economic and social relations with our Asian partners and friends. The Republic of Korea has always been an open country to the Western world and has maintained a very good relationship with Hungary for several decades. Our relations are balanced at both parliamentary and governmental levels. The evidence of this is, among other things, that Hungarian-South Korean parliamentary relations are lively despite the great geographical distance. High-level visits were carried out at Vice-President level. Vice-President István Jakab was in Seoul in 2013. A visit to the Speaker's Office took place in 2002 and took place in 2006. Committee meetings will also take place from time to time. Among other things, in 2013, László L. Simon, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Press, discussed and gave dinner to the delegation of the Committee on Education, Culture, Sports and Tourism of the Korean National Assembly. But there was also an example of a Korean delegation dealing with conservation issues in Hungary. The link between the Korean embassy in Budapest and the Hungarian-Korea Friendly Group is lively. Regular meetings will try to compensate for long geographical contact difficulties. This effort is clearly and appreciably crowned with success. The other road to the construction is the government side. At the end of 2014, a large number of Hungarian government delegations visited the Republic of Korea under Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. At the same time, a new, strong educational scholarship programme was established. The educational scholarship programme can also strengthen Hungarian-Korean friendship through civil cooperation. It is also important to mention the positive economic results of the trip. As State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Levente Magyar announced, Hungarian businessmen accompanying the Prime Minister made a deal in the East Asian country of nearly HUF 23 billion in total. In addition, many Korean investments have been made in our country. The Korean company Woory Industries announced in 2014 that it intends to invest nearly HUF 9 billion in Hungary, creating 120 new jobs. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, From what you have said, I think it is very clear that Hungarian-Korean relations are constantly evolving and expanding. This also implies that more and more citizens are traveling between our countries. In order to facilitate cross-border transport for them, the governments of the two countries decide on the mutual recognition of driving licences in this international treaty. The bill facilitates the free movement of both Hungarian and Korean citizens, thus strengthening cooperation between the two countries. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-05-76	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has also applied for a keynote speech. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-05-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As early as 1892, the official relationship between Korea and the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy began, when representatives of the Kingdom of Korea and the Monarchy concluded a treaty of friendship, commerce and maritime relations. Unfortunately, between 1910 and 1989, the evolution of world history, the two world burns, and the Cold War broke off this relationship, which we managed to repair in February 1989 through diplomatic relations between the two countries. Hungary was the first country from the former socialist camp to establish relations with South Korea. This February we celebrated the 26th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Hungary and South Korea. It should be said here that while in 1989 the value of trade between the two countries was $18 million, this increased to USD 2.8 billion in 2013. Currently, there are about fifty South Korean companies in Hungary, which brought 20 thousand jobs to Hungary with their $2 billion worth of investments. The two biggest investors are Samsung and Hankook. With the entry into force of the Agreement signed on 28 November 2014, it will be replaced by an Exchange of Letters between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the mutual recognition of driving licences for road vehicles, currently in force between the two countries, and 74/2005. Agreement issued by Government Decree No. 1. The Agreement addresses problems with the localisation of driving licences issued in the Republic of Korea in recent years. Thus, it allows for the recognition of driving licences with a higher category of road vehicles under Korean rules as a category D driving licence. In the future, recognition of driving licences will not be conditional on the submission of a certified translation of the driving licence submitted for localisation into the language of the State assessing the application, but instead it will be sufficient to submit the original driving licence and its translation into the language of the State of exchange certified by the diplomatic or consular representation maintained by the State issuing the original driving licence. The Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-05-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-05-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Jobbik supports the publication of an agreement on the recognition and exchange of mutual driving licences between Hungary and the Republic of Korea. The present Convention replaces the 2005 Government Decree, in which this issue has already been regulated, but there have been shortcomings. One of these shortcomings was that the previous convention did not take into account the differences between different types of driving licences in both countries. This is why we did not recognise the driving licence for higher-class vehicles in South Korea as a category B driving licence in Hungary. In addition to Korea, Hungary still has a similar bilateral agreement with Japan, which is regulated by a government decree of 2008. In Jobbik's view, similar agreements are extremely important, since they make life easier for those who work in the long term in the countries that sign the agreement, whether they are a Hungarian working in Korea or a Korean person who works in Hungary. I would like to encourage the Government and the Secretary of State to propose more similar agreements in the future, taking into account, of course, what kind of transport culture and rules apply in the partner country and whether they are compatible with Hungarian rules and relations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-05-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Laszlo Tasó, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your support. They were particularly valuable, which, in order to strengthen the Hungarian economy, were supported by the government and confirmed that we were on the right path, and the Eastern Opening Programme is a truly strong opportunity for Hungary to develop. Thank you very much for your support. Thank you for the floor. [[11.00]]
u2015-03-05-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the publication of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes, signed on 17 April 2008 in Tashkent, pending closure follows. The submission is T/3406. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the Republic of Uzbekistan 26/2012. The Prime Minister's decision authorised the amendment of the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes. The final text of the Protocol amending the Convention shall be drawn up, signed and adopted as a draft act in accordance with Article 1659/2014. It's a government decision. The Protocol was signed in Budapest on 25 November 2014. The Protocol amends the article of the Hungarian-Uzbek tax convention regulating the exchange of tax information between tax authorities in accordance with international standards. T/3406. The scope of Protocol No 1 covers the exchange of information in the field of income and property taxes. By amending the Convention, it shall provide the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the opportunity to exchange full information. It is important that the application of the amended Article precludes, in the case of tax information exchange, a reference to a lack of domestic interest and also makes it compulsory to provide information on bank secrets and ownership interests. In terms of the content of the Protocol, it complies with international practice, the principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary, as well as with other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far. It serves well the development of bilateral relations, the interests of investors and tax transparency. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. On the basis of what has been said, I would like to ask for the adoption of a legislative proposal between Hungary and the Republic of Uzbekistan on the publication of a protocol on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation, amending the convention signed in the field of income and property taxes. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-05-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-05-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment to the minutes between the Hungarian and Uzbek governments reassures the competent authorities of our countries of the possibility of a full exchange of information, as the State Secretary said. It requires disclosure of information on bank secrets and ownership interests and excludes any reference to a lack of domestic interest. It is consistent with international practice in terms of content. The Government of Hungary has already concluded such bilateral tax agreements with a number of countries. This amendment is also fully harmonised with these international treaties and OECD tenders. At the same time, Hungarian-Uzbek relations have many additional potential. Our parliamentary relations are balanced. President László Kövér made an official visit to Uzbekistan in October 2013. The strengthening of our parliamentary relations is also indicated by the fact that, in March 2012, alongside the patronage of Vice-President Sándor Lezsák and his elected presidency, the friendly department of the Hungarian-Uzbek IPU was established. It shows my fellow Members' interest in the country that, despite the half-off Parliament, the Hungarian-Uzbek friendly department continues its work in almost unchanged numbers. This is where I report to my fellow Members that I had the opportunity to attend a meeting between President Sándor Lezsák and Ambassador of Uzbekistan accredited to Hungary two days ago. Mr Ambassador stressed that Uzbekistan wants to strengthen its relations with Hungary in both economic and political and cultural areas. Indeed, it would be worth developing our relations in a number of areas. In addition to this Convention, for example, there are opportunities for trade in goods or other economic cooperation. These forms of cooperation should be further expanded, since both Hungary and Uzbekistan are interested in their recovery. As mentioned at the Hungarian-Uzbek Business Forum held last November, the trade in goods between the two countries is very low, about $40 million, while the total trade turnover is worth $70 million. Free trade zones have many opportunities, so Hungarian companies should be present in the internal Asian country with a larger number. Hungarian companies, even mixed companies, could benefit from several advantages offered by Uzbekistan, such as cheap labour, advanced infrastructure, natural resources or tax and tax concessions to foreign investors. In addition, Hungarian capital can invest safely in Uzbekistan. Hungarian companies could compete in favour of a number of international companies operating in Uzbekistan. Another advantage is that investors are protected by a bilateral government agreement. For our partners in Uzbekistan, cooperation with Hungarian companies is important not only because of capital investment but also because of the inflow of high-tech technology into Uzbekistan. In a country with a population of over 30 million people, 60 percent is the working population between 18 and 65 years of age. A successful health programme has been implemented, resulting in a significant reduction in maternal and paediatric mortality. National access to health services and emergency care are good; more than 15% of the budget is spent on health care each year, especially X-rays, sterilisers and antiseptic equipment. 70 percent of healthcare products are still imported, including many Hungarian products. Richter is a major player in the pharmaceutical industry there, and they are not yet able to produce asthma, hormonal and antiviral products, and they are welcome to be offered. Cooperation outside the health and pharmaceutical sectors is possible, for example, in the areas of machinery, tourism, water management, remediation and the processing of agricultural products. The bill before us strengthens the economic cooperation between Hungary and Uzbekistan, but, as mentioned at the meeting of President Sándor Lezsák and Ambassador, cultural relations are also of great importance, as we can have further cooperation based on mutual recognition and mutual appreciation. Our shared pride, for example, is the work of Orientalist Ármin Vámbéry and Tatar-Uzbek Muslim religious teacher Molla Sadik. Molla Sadik learned the science of reading and reading as a true Muslim, and probably, as a dervish, would have devoted his life to studying the Koran if his fate had not brought him together with Ármin Vámbéry, whom he joined to pilgrimage to Mecca. Instead of Mecca, however, he came to Hungary, from which he did not return to his distant homeland. He learned Hungarian as an adult. As a petty officer of the MTA's library, he taught several tatars, Uzbek and other languages. Ármin Vámbéry had a language master and a live dictionary, as he was well acquainted with Turkic languages in addition to his native language. [[11.10]] He was well-known as a writer and literary translator, he translated tales and legends, among them János Arany's story about the Miracle Deer into Turkish. He spent his last years in Venice, where he was buried with a Muslim ritual and military honor in the Reformed Cemetery. Yes, it is important to find cultural links, common points that can form a bridge between us, man, country, nation and nation, and it is important to find opportunities to strengthen cooperation in the economic field. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-05-86	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-05-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, On 26 December 1991 Hungary recognised the independence of Uzbekistan. The two countries established diplomatic relations on 3 March 1992. The population of Uzbekistan is about 30 million, of which 10 million live in the Fergena Valley. 40 percent of the population is under 18 years of age, 700,000 to 800,000 children are born every year. Prognosis suggests that by 2030, the population will reach 50 million. The country is one of the world's largest cotton producers, has very good qualities for agriculture, rich in raw materials, gas, gold, uranium and copper. Its textile industry, its chemical industry and efforts are being made to develop the automotive industry. The Hungarian-Uzbek trade in goods for USD 40 million in 2013 is considered very low. Hungarian companies, whether in the form of mixed companies, should be more actively present in Uzbekistan, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by free trade zones. Collaboration could be possible in a number of areas, such as health, mechanical engineering, pharmaceuticals, tourism, water management, remediation, processing of agricultural products. The purpose of the Convention Amending Protocol is to update the Article of the Convention on Tax Exchange in accordance with international standards. The tax convention published in 2008 has not yet included the possibility of a full exchange of information, and the amendment under the Protocol is intended to replace it. A full exchange of information under the 2008 review of the OECD Model Convention on the basis of which the Convention is concluded is provided for under the Protocol amendment. By amending the Convention, it shall provide the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the opportunity to exchange full information. The amendment excludes, after mutual ratification, a reference to the lack of domestic interests and also makes it compulsory to provide information on bank secrets and ownership interests. It is in line with international practice in terms of content of the Protocol. The content of the Protocol concerns a legislative subject, and it is therefore possible to publish a law in accordance with the rules on the conclusion of international treaties and the rules of law. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-05-88	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-05-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Tax evasion and tax evasion are always victims of everyone who is not one of the perpetrators, and tax evasion has now become a serious international problem that no country can solve on its own merits. By reducing tax fraud and tax evasion, the government's budget, which is subject to constant restrictions, could increase their tax revenues, which would give them room for manoeuvre to transform their tax systems in such a way as to stimulate growth more. In addition, in view of the scale of the challenge, strengthening the fight against tax evasion and avoidance is not only a matter of revenue but also a question of fairness. In particular, in such a difficult economic period, it is not acceptable to impose additional tax burdens on honest taxpayers to cover income shortages caused by tax fraud and avoidance. In this spirit, the May Other Policy will support the proposal before this House. At the same time, we believe that agreements between countries can only fulfil their expectations if agreements meet similar aspirations within national borders. Unfortunately, however, we can see little evidence of this, but unfortunately, they still keep Hungarian citizens in the dark about how many billions of VAT frauds could take place and who was responsible for them. Unfortunately, we still don't know how, despite the promise, the government could deal with offshore companies, which are known to have been created to avoid paying taxes and to make ownership relations opaque. From this point of view, we find it a little cynical that this particular government is entering into anti-tax evasion agreements, although it may just be about who else would know better than the government in office. Such a convention is best achieved when those who conclude believe that it can be observed and respected. For the reasons mentioned above, we believe that the agreement before us is a necessary but not sufficient condition for fair public burdens, and therefore the LMP will vote in favour of the proposal with this warning. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-05-90	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-05-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik supports the agreement before us. I would like to add a few points from an external point of view to this proposal, because recently, when we were talking about the aviation agreement with Azerbaijan, I said that we consider it important that, in the spirit of the Eastern opening policy, we really achieve meaningful results in this area, and, for example, although it is not yet an open trading house in Uzbekistan, our relations with this state are, fortunately, becoming more and more active, which, of course, we can accept very positively. At the previous proposal, Minister of State Tasó promised that we could be informed, for example, about such negotiations or specifically about the situation of the trading houses, about the government's further plans at the European Affairs Committee or at other forums. I have already said this several times to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, but I am now taking advantage of the opportunity to present this request to as many ministries as possible, so that we can get this information on a regular basis, because I am obviously following the Hungarian National Trade House, and I am trying to review the news about these countries as fully as possible, but it would be welcome if we could actually get meaningful information, and Mr Tasó also made a promise, so I hope that this will indeed happen in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-05-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-05-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your supporters' speeches. As rapporteur, I am very confident that the bill will be supported and voted by Parliament in a uniform manner; I trust that there will be no vote or abstention. I also thank you for your critical comments, especially on the part of the LMP. [[Ikotity to István:]] But if I may, I appreciate the part of your speech now when you said that you would support the proposal. I would also like to thank the Member of the MSZP for his speech, who agrees with the proposal so much that he basically repeated the national exposure word for word. Thank you so much for agreeing that there is a topic on which we can agree so much with the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you once again for the speeches and I trust that the vote will be effective. Thank you.
u2015-03-05-94	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. [[11.20]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. Today, after the agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the MSZP Group, spoke with her address before Women's Day. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-05-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would very much like to have been able to cancel this speech after today's agenda, but unfortunately I could not, because after Tuesday, I think that I must say in any way what I hoped I would not have to say. At the vote on Tuesday, Fidesz voted against the Istanbul Convention, and Jobbik acted with a abstaining vote on this day in relation to this law. It is true that we just wanted to debate the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, but we did not even manage to achieve that on Tuesday. I would quote literally what we wanted on Tuesday with the Istanbul Convention. The Parliament expresses its commitment to a radical reduction in the number of cases of domestic violence in Hungary. The Parliament declares its condemnation of all forms of violence, in particular those in which women and children are physically and emotionally defenseless. We cannot go beyond this incident on Tuesday, because I think that when data comes out in Hungary, or data shows that there are about 300 to 400 thousand women affected by domestic violence today, two women died of domestic violence last week, statistics show that nearly one and a half women die on average one week of domestic violence... - and a child a month. I think that if we are talking about abuse, I must stress here before women's day that we are not only talking about women, we are talking about children, people with disabilities and elderly people. That is why it was necessary that, when Hungary joined this agreement in March 2014, after Tuesday, we could have stated that we were even willing to include this issue, to debate this issue and to discuss within the walls of Parliament what the Hungarian Parliament could do, the legislative process on the basis of statistics in the coming years. As long as the Parliament in Hungary is not even willing to argue about this issue, I believe that we cannot leave without saying anything, and in every case we must voice a voice against it. The reason I just spoke is because it's International Women's Day on Sunday, March 8th. I would very much like to draw the attention of my fellow men, when a flower is handed over to their mother, grandmother, daughter or granddaughter on Sunday, then remember that it is very important that Hungary can ratify this agreement and that we can act as widely as possible against domestic violence. I would very much ask the Members of Parliament and the Government to support this, because believe that we will try again in this term, and we will continue to try and ask for the help of social organisations until the government realizes that this is in the interests of Hungary, the interests of families, children, women and those who have been abused. If television viewers are still watching this broadcast, the broadcast after the agenda, then as a woman, I wish every woman a very happy woman's day. I would like to wish that, since there are the greatest number of better fellow Members sitting here, they should also consider supporting the inclusion of the Istanbul Convention in the debate. I wish you all a pleasant weekend and very much to approach my women this weekend. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-05-96	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As President-in-Office, I cannot respond to what the Congresswoman has said, but allow me, on the occasion of International Women's Day, to all women - I think I can do it on behalf of my fellow men - with great respect to wish them happiness and all the good things that we can wish for women and women. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 11:26 p.m.]]
