u2015-04-29-0	[[The microphone isn't working.]] Welcome. Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr László Földi and Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck - notaries. Welcome, guests and everyone who monitors our work. [[They're turning on the microphone.]] Due to technical obstacles, I will say once again what I have just said, that all of you and those who are following us hear it. The 25th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr László Földi and Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck - notaries. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, today the Parliament will hold five general debates. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and of the bill amending certain laws relating to public employment will follow. The submission is T/4451. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I declare that, as said at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the presentation will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-29-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The legislative package before us contains the necessary amendments to the laws on civil status, public employment and the promotion of employment, based on practical experience. The purpose of the amendment of the Civil Procedure Act is to clarify and supplement some of the provisions of the Act, based on the practical experience of more than six months since the introduction of the electronic registration system. The amendment to the Public Employment Act extends the scope of public employment relationships by participating in a labour market service organised in the context of public employment. An essential element of the amendment is the creation of legal conditions for the issue of freedom and the proposal also amends the provision on unpaid leave. The Employment Promotion Act amends the concept of short-term work with a view to amending the Public Employment Act and contains other clarification provisions. The more efficient and economical electronic register system replacing manual, paper-based registration as of 1 July 2014 has fundamentally changed the rules of the registration procedure so far. Therefore, the bill broadens the scope of the concepts used in the civil status administration among the interpretation provisions, clarifies and complements the rules on the competence and competence of the bodies and persons involved in the civil status administration, making the registration of unknown bodies of a special nature, for example, the role of the Budapest and County Government Office. The bill complements the provisions on naming with the missing procedural rules for deadlines and documents to be attached. The bill is Ptk. In order to ensure consistency with its provisions, it also proposes to amend the law on the registration procedure by clarifying the provisions on non-marriage and parental recognition. In order to clarify the current legislation on cancellation, the bill provides in detail for the scope of the right to be removed from the register and for the order of proceedings. The bill refers the deletion of registrations to the duties of the registry manager who has performed the registration, but the metropolitan and county government offices and the authority responsible for the domestic registration will be entitled to delete the entries made by itself. The more complex deletions involving the jurisdiction of several civil servants are referred by the bill to the duties of the competent government office in the capital or county, and if the deletion concerns domestic registration, it becomes the task of the authority responsible for the domestic registration. With legislation in the bill, entries and deletions in the register are transparent and well understood by law enforcement. We propose supplementing the civil status law with a new procedure to correct the family name. The purpose of the new procedure is to eliminate errors resulting from irrational rules on family names established in 1953. The previous regulation, which spans several decades, has resulted in different names being used within families, and the birth, marriage and death records of persons with two or more family names have also been recorded in a different way. Therefore, the bill seeks to allow persons born before 1 January 1953 who are born and registered without a hyphen or in conjunction with a hyphen to apply for the correction of their family names. The bill also proposes the rules of competence and detailed procedure for this new procedure, and also settles the rules of distinguishing names. The basic objective of the public employment system is to create, while acquiring and maintaining work experience, the possibility for public workers to acquire knowledge that facilitates their employment in the labour market. In order to promote this goal, the bill provides for the possibility for participants in a public employment programme involving participation in mixed training or labour market services to maintain their public employment status during these periods. The proposal limits participation in the labour market service to a maximum of 3 days per calendar year, for which it also requires the approval of the authority which concluded an official contract. It is proposed to amend the Public Employment Act in order to settle the detailed arrangements for granting the freedom granted to public workers. The rules on the issue of freedom are partly based on the provisions of the Labour Code Act, taking into account the specificities of the public employment relationship. As an example, I would like to mention the right to issue freedom, under which the public worker must communicate the date of granting of freedom to the public worker no later than 15 days before the beginning of the leave, and the freedom granted within 15 days before the beginning of the leave may be granted only with the consent of the public worker. On the basis of the bill, the provision of the Public Employment Act on unpaid leave is amended so that the maximum period of unpaid leave is increased from 90 days to 120 days, and the time limit for the presentation of the contract of employment required for the use of unpaid leave is reduced from 5 days to 2 days. In order to maintain consistency between the Public Employment Act and the Employment Promotion Act, the package also includes amendments to the Employment Promotion Act. [[9.10]] The proposal adapts the short-term working time to the increased period of unpaid leave for the public employee who is obliged to enter into employment. I ask this House to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Papcsák, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. I would like to remind you that you have up to 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly about the bill before us, but before I do that, allow me also to report that the Justice Committee has accepted, supported and proposed the motion for inclusion. In mid-April, the Government presented the proposal that we have just discussed to amend Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and certain laws relating to public employment. With the publication of the simplification programme under the Magyary programme, the government has set itself the aim of simplifying public administration. In doing so, it seeks to remove unnecessary bureaucracy from the procedures and to ensure that citizens are helped by fewer paperwork, fewer forms, fewer lines of work, as simple a process of administration as possible. Since the adoption of Act I of 2010 on the registration procedure, it has become clear that the concept of the adopted law needs to be rethinked, the structure and internal logic of the register in order to exploit IT opportunities, to establish an electronic registration system. In line with this, as of 1 July 2014, manual paper registration was replaced by a more efficient and economical electronic registration system. The rules of the civil status procedure have changed fundamentally, but the practical experience of the six months since the introduction justified the clarification and addition of some of the provisions of the law. That's what this bill is about. The legislative proposal amended the experience of the period since the introduction of the electronic register, taking into account the legal references. For example, it expands the scope of concepts used in civil status management among the interpretation provisions. In order to ensure the legality of the operation, it provides a detailed description of the range of persons entitled to be removed from the register and of the procedure. In response to questions raised in practice, it clarifies and complements the rules on the powers and responsibilities of bodies and persons involved in civil status management. In accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code and in order to establish it, the provisions concerning the refusal of marriage have been clarified. For example, the marriage certificate should include, in addition to the fact that the marriage is terminated, the date of termination, as should the declaration of invalidity. The amendment concerns the 2011 CVI relating to public employment and public employment and amending other laws. Law No. 1. The amendment of the Public Employment Act extends the field of public employment. It extends the relationship of public workers by participating in a labour market service organised in the context of public employment. However, it is important to note that the government does not believe that job seekers should be kept in this circle forever, in the public employment circle. Of course, this is only an opportunity to bring the employees back to the actual labour market. By eliminating the loss of income caused by participation in them, the chances of the otherwise economically vulnerable job-seeker layer can be further improved. I ask the honourable Parliament to support the motion by the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2015-04-29-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2015-04-29-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are two issues side by side, the subject of the civil status procedure and public employment, for which there is no logical link. There is no logical connection, I can only discover so many connections that the Ministry of the Interior oversees both topics. At the time when the legislative programme was born, I saw both subjects wishing to negotiate in the House, but not in this way, combining topics between which, as I said, there is no logical connection. If I remember correctly, one was shown under number 42 and the other under number 43, but on its own. To be clear and understandable, on the one hand, I would say that you use the word "unscrupulous," and on the other hand, I find it possible to use a number of other indications that the legislation is being conducted by bringing any non-related issues under a heavenly authority and forcing negotiations out. The issue of registration and public employment, as I said, does not have any logical connection. This is a lazy method and a kind of test run, we use Orbán's words, which are now true throughout the country. They try everything, it doesn't work, they either change it, or they're still a little bit on it, Internet tax, a lot of other things, and then we end up going somewhere, to the test run. Let's see. Let's look at this birth certificate procedure. Summer 2014 when the electronic registration system is introduced. Technically, they already have more than four years of governance behind them. More than four years later, it was not enough to bring an electronic registration system to life, and then, when they do, we are back in Parliament for a long six months, we are discussing this topic again, and we are faced with the need to address a multitude of problems, whether in jurisdiction or in jurisdiction. What is the preparation of your legislation? ! Perhaps more energy should have been spent on this rather than, let's say, the system of the registry network to create various structural transformation processes that are disrupting the functioning system. Five years of life calls and operations weren't enough for you on this issue. Once again, they had one goal: to get away with an independent parliamentary debate within the framework of such a joint negotiation. Is that reasonable? I don't think so. I'm also wondering if you're familiar with the NAIH system, if you've been sent in. Is Attila Péterfalvi's position on this bill established? What I'm asking you is that, in fact, no matter how much I looked for you in the 2015 register, I couldn't find you. Help me, Secretary of State, whether Attila Péterfalvi's resolution can be found. Just because this proposal is full of data processing issues and data processing provisions. I would not be caught up in the negotiation of the civil status procedure, I would move to the public employment section, which, I say, I think it would be appropriate for the government to negotiate as an independent agenda and should have done so in the light of the course of fair legislation. [[9.20]] Public employment: in terms of public employment, my personal position is my personal position, and I can safely say that the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is that public employment is a form of employment needed in Hungary; it was necessary, necessary and likely to be necessary. But I would also like to add that it is not in the form in which you are implementing it. It is not in the form of being considered as a statistical subject - almost only a statistical subject - while not ensuring that these people can do value-making work. Some of them, of course, find this kind of task, but in a large part - and this is not supported by a multitude of mayors - they carry on an activity or almost no activity that destroys the self-esteem of the people concerned. And not just theirs; those who look at these people, because they say that they can be sourced for that activity - quoted in quotes - while a person works for a minimum wage of decreasing purchasing power - compared to 2010, let's say a tape. People are confronted by the irresponsible desire to improve employment statistics through public employment, of course, with reduced wages. After all, in 2010, the public workers were able to take 60 200 forints in hand, and then here, among the walls of Parliament, there were 47,000 people to live on - Zsiga Marcell was an outstanding representative of this case, but other representatives joined it from the government side - and the story is that 52-53,000 forints is the money that is being paid to the public. And this money is worth about 42,000 forints today, translated into 2010. That is, you, your government, have taken away a third of the value of public workers' wages. You know, the two-thirds government that has passed has taken away a third of the wages of the public workers. That's how the glory fades, but even the public workers didn't benefit from you governing. Of course, they also remember in a cynical way that it was these public workers who offered goat as a complementary activity - they should hold goats; perhaps your minister, Minister Pintér, used these words - some who encouraged them to do mushrooming and had other creative ideas in this regard. Instead of providing valuable work and giving these people fair wages, and, as I said, they would not have been used as a subject of employment statistics. I mean, that wouldn't have been your job, because that wasn't their promise. You promised to create a million new jobs in the economy - in the economy, not on the stage of public employment - in ten years, half of which we are now slowly over, and 500 000 new jobs are nowhere in the economy. In other respects, public employment also falls within the categories of employment trampled, since in 2012, when the Labour Code was adopted, a regulatory system was put in place, where employees, such as those covered by the Labour Code, were distinguished. Example: in the calculation of the freedom of public employment, this draft law also deals with this, in calculating freedom, the supplementary freedom, which is established on the basis of, say, a multitude of years of employment in the previous period, i.e. based on the number of children raised, this does not apply to the public employee in an interesting way. What form of treatment is it, what kind of attention or not paying attention, that makes negative discrimination and negative discrimination in this regard? Now, in this draft law, they try to take measures that can be called beauty patches, take part in the three-day trainings in the public sector, and count into the duration of the public employment. I'd like to point out that a normal job search training usually has a longer duration, not long, a week, two weeks, but usually longer duration. That doesn't count anymore. They say that we should adopt a measure that considers public employment as a time of law in terms of job search. I approve. I do not say that there are no elements of the beauty patch in respect of which this draft law does not need to be supported at least partially. But what I am saying is that they should bring about fundamental changes in this regard. At a time when the category of unpaid leave is given the possibility of extending from 90 days to 120 days in order to conclude fixed-term contracts for basically agricultural types of work, I say that it is okay, why not, because this story may cover a longer term term. But at a time when the basic issues are not decided, and that the public worker should also be part of the regulatory framework of the Labour Code, in all respects that, in the same way as the public worker's wages, if we are talking about wages, the minimum wage should be an attainable category, so that, of course, there is also a requirement for value-creating work to take place, which, if any, is accompanied by performance measurement, of course - but where are these? They're all missing. This set or the set that should appear in this regard, from what you have brought here, is a fragment, a partial surface, a detail, a very weak, very small detail. I'd like to mention two more things. One is what I think you should do. What they should do - once again - is not to use these people as statistical subjects, but to provide them with a value-making activity that is beneficial to society that enhances their own self-esteem, their appreciation by others, and, in addition, would provide them with a decent, at least minimum wage, basis for living. And in addition to all this, the same rights under the Labour Code should not be as far as freedom is concerned, as I said, when calculating supplementary leave, something will not be counted. Now, in connection with the draft law, they come with the freedom to inform the public worker 15 days before, if he wants to send him on leave, but if the public worker wants to take leave, then 7 days before that, 15 days if he wants to take a leave of more than 7 days... - these are details, not content matters. I want you to deal with the content issues. The same rights to these people, a value-creating form of public employment and an opportunity that can be confirmed even through performance measurements, which strengthens their personal self-esteem and carries the appreciation of others. Once and for the last time, these people need to be used as non-statistical subjects, no, because then they walk like Gyöngyfa, where the cleaning of 300 meters of trench lasts for six months for 30 people, with a performance of 6 centimeters per day. This is not the public employment that needs to be supported. Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[9.30]]
u2015-04-29-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP implemented the electronic registration in Hungary on a mandatory basis from 1 July 2014, i.e. almost a year ago. As a result of the above, we have today achieved that instead of the previous four types of birth, marriage, registered partnership, death certificate, there is only one, regardless of where the Hungarian citizen was born, where he married, where he established a registered partnership or where he died. The register itself is directly available to any of Hungary's Registrars, which is due on the one hand to the fact that the data are recorded not on paper, but on the basis of the events of the birth, electronically and personally, and on the other hand to the fact that the Central Office for Public Administration and Electronic Services, under the leadership of President István Ignácz, has developed and operated the electronic registration system in an excellent manner. This new civil status system has radically changed the rules of the civil status procedure so far in order to extend the civil friendly and service administration. However, since the introduction of the new rules, it has been almost a year, during which practical experience has made it necessary to clarify or supplement the relevant provisions of Act I of 2010 on the civil status procedure. In line with the experience of the period since the introduction of the e-registry, the bill broadens the scope of concepts used in the registrar's administration among the interpretation provisions. In order to ensure the legality of the operation, it provides a detailed description of the range of persons entitled to be removed from the register and of the procedure. The bill clarifies and complements the rules on the competence and competence of the bodies and persons involved in the civil status administration. Persons and their descendants born before 1 January 1953 and registered under a family name, which is neither hyphen nor hyphen, are given the opportunity to apply for a correction of their family names. The bill also expands the field of public employment, settles the legal conditions for granting freedom, increases the maximum duration of unpaid leave from 90 days to 120 days, and changes the concept of short-term work, and contains other clarification provisions. Please support T/4451. Bill No. 1. KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here.
u2015-04-29-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, I try to be brief and brief. Since the debate in Parliament should be on the proposal before us, of course, it is possible to give a look out, but in my opinion, it does not help us to focus on the subject sufficiently. It's quite simply a feat from Nándor Gúr, for example. I've been waiting for the 15 minutes to be completed by talking about the subject. He didn't make it. Anyway, it is not my job to criticize his speech, but in the interest of the dignity of Parliament, I would always like to say that the subject should be addressed. Of course, at the 12th minute, my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, changed when he said that the regulation, which is otherwise in place, is increasing the duration of unpaid leave from 90 days to 120 days, that is okay, why not. I wrote it down; whatever. After this introduction, however, it has to be said that the part concerning the linking of two laws or regulatory areas that are not necessarily compatible is true, and perhaps it could have been brought before the Parliament in a separate bill. I wouldn't even call it the salad law, because two areas do not reach the area of lettuce, but it could have been tabled on two consecutive agendas for today's sitting. I know this is just a technical story, but still, if we were trying to achieve a more balanced, transparent legislation with the parliamentary and municipal elections coming down, this would have been nice and important. The rules of the civil status procedure are indeed technical and can be welcomed by the introduction of electronic registers. Better late than never, of course. This was also not introduced by the socialists. It is therefore possible to ask Fidesz why this was done at the time of their administration, but this could have been established, knowing the IT systems, even in the time of socialist governments. In this respect, if there is responsibility, then there is a common responsibility between the current Fidesz government and the activities of the socialist governments before it. But the point is that it has been introduced, and, of course, we clearly see that correction is always necessary, that for all new legislation there may be areas that need to be regulated. The fact that certain cases have been clarified, we have heard that the date of the rise to legal force must be indicated, for example, when it comes to divorce, these are, I think, natural and acceptable amendments, clarifications. When registering first names, I am talking about the case that if a parent is not a Hungarian citizen, it also seems perfectly logical to prove that it complies with the rules in that country, and it is a logical rule in itself that if, by the way, the director of the registry is officially aware of the manner in which this is done in that country or the name to be registered in accordance with the rules of that country, he can do so. So you can't get involved in these things. Imre Ritter is a German ethnic advocate, and I think he will speak about the use of minority names. We will listen to this with great interest, of course, so this will also be an important element of our position, the faction point, what the nationalities, in this case the German ethnic advocate, will say about it and what corrections may need to be made that can improve the bill. By the way, moving to the part about community service - because that's about all I wanted to say about the birth certificate - there's a lot to say about community service. At the time, Jobbik suggested the introduction of community service. Not exactly like this, but at least we're going somewhere with this. It is true that 47,000 forints are impossible to make a living, and there are many corrections in the area, although the proposal before us, as I have said, is to increase the maximum period of unpaid leave from 90 days to 120 days, let us say, that is not from the devil. Why the deadline for the presentation of the contract of employment is reduced from 5 days to 2 days, I do not know that; this is an issue where I believe that the deadline reduction is not sufficiently explained or justified. Of course, Mr Secretary, I could not find a detailed explanation in the detailed explanation as to why 5 days, 5 days so far, are not enough for the announcement. We know that the technical deadlines, when set for two days, go by quite quickly, are often physically difficult to deliver such an employment contract, especially, say, in the countryside. And I'm not sure it's worth creating a situation that's illegal if it happens on, say, day 3 or 4. [[9.40]] So I would like an explanation or an answer to this point from the Secretary of State. On the other hand, I consider this proposal to be eligible if we look at the amendments which have been set out in it. Of course, as I said, we are still listening to the German ethnic advocate's opinion, which may affect our decision. All I would like to say at the end - here, back to the socialist laments - is that, if I remember correctly, Gábor Simon, along with István Nyakó, marching along the course of hunger. After that, Hungarian citizens living or not living from 47,000 forints may, of course, be justified by others from the mouth of the MSZP, or if parties that have not been involved in the robbery of the country, criticisms of the rightful mouth of parties can be said, but this will be completely uncredited, and this should be taken into account when we go beyond the agenda. Nevertheless, these proposals, as I have said, seem to be supported for the time being. Of course, we will continue to participate in the debate. I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State and the question he's asked. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-04-29-10	Thank you very much. I give the floor, honourable Parliament, to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, there is once again a bill before this House for many, many years now, which contains non-linked regulatory areas. Before I go into the substance of the bill, I would like to point out that, in the summer of 12 months, LMP did not accidentally put a package of so-called predictability laws on the table of Parliament, as is the case with the application of the law, the behaviour of ordinary citizens that follows the law is rather difficult when the government and the parliament enter into completely random areas of law that are not at random. I cannot understand why it is necessary to put before this House, as a bill, on the one hand, to amend the rules on civil status and, on the other, to amend certain rules on public employment. Once again, I would like to underline that, in order to allow citizens, various business organisations, businesses, officials, the various law-applicationers to be able to calculate rules clearly, predictablely and predictablely, it is important not only that fundamental rules are not drawn up by Parliament every month, every six months, but also that individual legislation or individual legislative amendments, logically, the areas that belong to this House are united or published later. For many times, I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that it causes great uncertainty and legal uncertainty when the government presents non-compatible areas of law to Parliament on a salad bowl. Dear Parliament, As regards the amendment of the civil status rules in the bill, they are mainly intended to clarify the rules that have been adopted, to make the rules of the civil register more logical and to simplify the fulfilment of citizens' requests. We can support these rules, together with joining in what my fellow Member Staudt has already chosen here, and I would like to ask the Government to take full account of the views of national minority advocates as far as possible in terms of civil status rules, because if there is a very effective and important function of the national minority advocate, one area is precisely registration. So, while we consider the proposals that the government has brought to the House to be eligible, it is of particular importance on this subject how the advocates of minorities resident in Hungary otherwise feel about the expected registration and administrative practice. As far as the public employment-related parts of the proposal are concerned, there are three important elements here. In the future, public employment would be regarded as a public employment relationship if the public worker were to participate in a labour market service of a maximum duration of three days under the Public Works Programme - it is correct. From 90 to 120 days I would increase the compulsory unpaid leave at the request of the public worker in the case of fixed-term work. That's right, too. Thirdly, the rules on the freedom of public workers are changing in a positive direction. This is also eligible. Overall, the amendment is also eligible for public employment, as it is approaching the rules of the Labour Code, in particular the 2011 Code of Emerging, but that is far from enough, it is a hen step in the fact that public workers actually receive the protection of labour law which they are entitled to, by the way, the public workers. The number of days off should also be adapted to labour law rules. We are making the proposed amendment to ensure uniform 14 days of freedom for public workers. In addition, no distinction should be made between the number of days off and the number of employees covered by the Labour Code. Which is why I would like to stop here for a moment and talk about the reason why we do not see sufficient progress in terms of the rules on public workers, this is the following. The special relationship between public workers, the public employment relationship, which means lower labour law protection and lower wages than the minimum wage remains. Instead of real jobs, instead of real job creation, what you promised to do back in the day, we'll still have to pay for the public work. There is no real shift in the situation of public workers. They continue to be subject to special rules. Less labour law protection, more vulnerability, so they are not even covered by the labour law protection which otherwise applies to employees in Hungary. While some of the rules for granting freedom are extended to them, for example, they will still not be entitled to 14 days of contiguous leave. This is the subject of our amendment proposal. The government will not change the biggest injustice: they will not get the minimum wage on the market. Let's face it, that until public workers receive the minimum wage on the market, this is a threat to all employees, so all Hungarian workers, because as long as public workers work for hunger wages, this artificially keeps the Hungarian wage level low. Therefore, LMP has already turned to the Constitutional Court several years ago, as we find it unconstitutional that in Hungary the same amount of wages is paid for the same job, depending on whether it works in public work or in normal employment. This is unacceptable. Public wages are not enough to make a living, hunger is much, as they say. In the context of domestic ignominious income and livelihoods, it represents only three quarters of the minimum wage, 51,000 forints, while the minimum wage itself does not reach the minimum wage, the difference is nearly 20 thousand forints. That is why we last proposed that the minimum wage should reach the minimum wage in Hungary. This is one of the most important elements of the LMP's labour poverty eradication package. Moreover, instead of drawing close to the minimum wage, public wages are being cut off and removed from the minimum wage. That is why we demand that we forget the whole public employment relationship and pay decent wages to public workers. We also have a programme to raise the net of the minimum wage without increasing the burden on employers. Public work should only be reserved for those who really cannot go back to the labour market, but everyone else should be returned there. Therefore, a public employment programme should enable the unemployed to return from public work to the primary labour market as self-employed or cooperative members. Where there is no primary labour market, there are no businesses, there is a need to move public work towards local economic development that can provide self-sustaining jobs and a better livelihood for people living on the ground. In any case, self-preservation must be sought in cooperative form, not in public work. LMP would support cooperatives instead of brutally developing public works. Recently, we have made a five-point demand that we consider essential in the field of public employment. The first thing we need is a working cooperative law that appears to have been forgotten at Fidesz after József Ángyán's departure. [[9.50]] Another important thing is the provision of suitable land to municipalities and social cooperatives. The third is to move public work towards food processing and other public services from the production of raw materials. This is the basis for establishing that cooperatives that grow out of public work are the foundations of the local economy. The fourth thing is that where there is a problem with sales, the placing of products on the market, the state or the association of small producers could enter into market creation for cooperatives. Fifthly, moving in the direction of a cooperative would require mentoring of professionals who are obviously prepared. It is also important to note that public workers will still not have a better chance of breaking out of public work, of finding employment in the labour market, and will still not have access to the funds available to job seekers. It remains a schizophrenic situation that public workers are job seekers and not job seekers. If the government's statistical interest or the ordering of Habony works so requires, it will naturally be shown as employed, public workers improve statistics, manipulate employment data with them, otherwise they will not be classified as employees, fall outside the scope of the Labour Code, they will not be subject to labour law rules, they will not receive regular wages. So, when it comes to power, when it comes to manipulating statistics, public workers are employed when it comes to giving normal money, they should be given normal labour protection and they should not be regarded as ordinary employees. At the same time, they are considered to be employed when it comes to support for job seekers' placement. So in Hungarian: in a hypocritical way, if someone is a public employee, they do not wish to provide them fully with the various labour market subsidies. In English: they pursue a policy that once became a public worker, so stay in the trap of the public worker. This is the situation that we want to eliminate. That is why we have also proposed legislation to give priority to primary labour market work over public work, and the regulation reflects the principle that market work is always a priority compared to public work. We have proposed that public workers also receive the labour market subsidies that the unemployed can receive, simply so that there will be an outbreak of the public works trap. To sum up, the LMP believes that the whole public works programme will make sense when and when there is an opportunity to break out of the public works trap for everyone. So in Hungarian: they also provide all the labour market services that they provide to job seekers. Two: in our view, the public work programme, public employment, is primarily for those who are otherwise unable to work - partly because of their age or age - on the primary labour market. In this case, however, it would also be important to move public employment from raw material production to a direction where a very broad vertice of the local economy can be built. So we are thinking of food processing and related various commercial and service activities. It would be very important for the government to support the resurgence of cooperatives rather than the continuous expansion of the number of public employment. Fourthly, it should also be said that today, in a shameful way, KLIK is on the top list of public workers in the second place. So this means that KLIK currently employs almost most of the public employees in Hungary. This means that for the same job, a public worker is paid a different wage than a public employee. This means that a public employee pedagogical assistant brings home more money than a pedagogical assistant who performs the same job as a public employee. But I could also set an example not only from public education institutions, but also from public education and public collection institutions. However, once again, it means that, while the state needs the knowledge in its head of a pedagogical assistant or a museum employee, instead of paying ordinary civil servants' wages, it employs these people for a hunger wage. When we talk about the fact that at present there is 30 percent of employee poverty in the public sector, the tragic fact is that public employment has been extended to the public sector. The wages of civil servants will not rise substantially as long as civil servants are employed for wages instead of civil servants. That is why we demand that this kind of public employment be abolished within the public sector, that they pay decent wages to pedagogical assistants, that they pay decent wages to nurses and health professionals. However, it seems that your employment policy is about making people work for as little money as possible in Hungary as vulnerable as possible. There is a picture of Hungary in your mind where future generations can choose to work in different assembly plants for low wages, and they will not be able to use their knowledge in these assembly plants, or they will go to public workers for hunger. This is a complete mistake. Hungary will never be competitive like this. Hungary should not compete in wages with other countries, but in the skills of the workforce. This direction, as shown by your public employment programme and employment policy, means that in the foreseeable future, wages will not increase. As I have shown, the employment of public workers instead of civil servants means that public servants' wages are being pressured, the wages of nurses, teachers' assistants, for example, are deliberately kept low, and the young who want to expand their talents will flee this country in a perfectly logical manner. This direction should be reversed; this bill alone will not be enough for this turn of events. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate. I would like to remind you that you have up to 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-13	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte das geehrte Parlament über die Meinung des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten informieren. Mr President, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the CVI of 2011 on the registration procedure Act I of 2010, relating to public employment and public employment and amending other laws. T/4451. The first part of the bill, the first paragraph 40, dealt with the registration procedure, and I would like to present the opinion of the committee. Nationalities living in Hungary are named directly in the bill 15. Paragraph 46 of the Act on the Registration of Civil Liberties refers to Article 46 of the Law on the Registration of Civil Liberties. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 shall be replaced by the following: the nationality family name and the nationality first name not included in the nationality first name register shall be governed by the position of the national minority self-government concerned. The national minority self-government concerned shall state its position within 30 days of the request. The first name, the registration of which has been approved by the national minority self-government concerned, shall be entered in the nationality first name list. On the one hand, this procedure provides for a continuous update of the nationality names, and on the other hand, the amendment extends the competence of the national minority self-government, in addition to the nationality nouns, to the resolution on the registration of the nationality family name, with which our committee agrees and supports. We hope that this opportunity will increase and simplify the requests for change of name in which, under legal, physical or psychological pressure in previous decades, nationality residents or their descendants who enshrine their names will reclaim their original nationality names. Apart from this paragraph, of course, all the points of the amendment of the law are affected, it may affect the nationalities living in Hungary, so in general we would like to state that the fundamental aims of the amendment and their proposals for solutions are agreed and supported by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. [[10.00]] I would like to highlight among these the 12th bill. §2 of the Act, which settles the uniform treatment and registration of two-member family names with or without hyphens, since the use of the double family name is more common than the average in ethnicity, including due to the already mentioned names taken back. We also agree on the 12th. Paragraph 2, according to which, if a parent is not a Hungarian citizen, the director of the registry may, at the request of the parent, register the first name of the child in the register in accordance with the rules governing the non-Hungarian citizen concerned, as this also occurs more frequently than the average in the case of Hungarian nationalities. The birth certificate records the most beautiful, wonderful milestones, birth, marriage, and death that follow man's life on earth. Allow me to tell you an intimate, personal ethnic story in this regard, in the end, I leave it up to you to learn the lessons and take them to heart. Personal, my own and the story of my children, but I would stress that all ethnic families living in Hungary are affected. On February 24, 2005, my son, Gergely, was born with great joy, and it was natural for us that when the lady came and asked for the data for the birth certificate, we provided the data and said - because her father and mother were German ethnicities - that we wanted to ask her for a German nationality certificate, and she looked at me in awe. I told you not to be mad, but I do, we put together the nationality register just the three years before, and it was adopted in 2004. I told you, there's a birth certificate, there's a law on the rights of nationalities, there's a nationality certificate, we have a right. He said it was okay, he's leaving, he's asking. The next day he came back with great joy that Mr Ritter was right, indeed he was, and showed that he was even trilingual. Here my joy was a little moderate, indeed it was trilingual: it was Hungarian, French and English. I told you it was very nice, but I don't want a foreign language, and I'm German for pecs, but I'd like a nationality certificate. It didn't work here any longer, he left, came back, said he didn't have any, he could only give Hungarians. I told you I wouldn't take that. We went home from the hospital, and from here I went to Bocskai Road every day, the XI. Circumference. Finally, since the pediatrician couldn't pick up, she couldn't pick up, my child's health changed the priorities temporarily, so a month after she was born, I took over the Hungarian birth certificate, which is the first page of the illustration. I didn't give up, and the next six months, three quarters of a year, daily, two days a week: local government, notary, mayor, ombudsman's office, national government. After two or three months, we got to the point that no one had contested that we had the right to a nationality certificate, but it can only be completed electronically, not manually, and the computer system is not prepared for it. I told them to program it. - All right, but there's no money. - Did I tell you I should pay for that too? So, it was a nearly one-year-old story. As we went along, Mary's daughter came, so we went to St. Imre's just a year and a half later, where, as we went in, everyone ran into her and said, "Oh, here come the German birth certificaters." I told you it was okay. Our daughter Mary was fortunately born, and see a miracle, seven days later we received the German nationality certificate, birth certificate of a German nationality: Ausug aus dem Geburstregistrer für Angehörige der deutschen Minderheit. I'll tell you, I read it with a little humid eye up here, and I didn't read it anymore, but then I saw that, yes, Mary's name was in German, even though we don't use egress in German outside the umlaut. For example, his father's name in Hungarian, Imre Ritter, was already Imre Ritter in German, although not Emmerich Ritter, he was replaced. I said it's wonderful that we've come this far. Another year and a half later, our daughter Annarose was born. Encouraging Mary's success, then let's try the first nativity list, so Annarose became Connie Ritter. One day ahead of Mary, since she was born on June 24, and on the 30th, we actually received the birth certificate five days or six days later, we were extremely happy. Yeah, we kind of backed out here because your father's name was Imre Ritter here in German, so my family name is my first name, my first name is my family name, but let's not be insatiable. Encouraged by the success of my two daughters, I thought my son might have a birth certificate now. Yeah, but they said he got a Hungarian, so he can't get another one. This debate went on for weeks again, until finally in the first days of January 2009 I received a phone to go to the mayor's office and received not one, but two new birth certificates: once I received the three-language birth certificate on January 5, 2009, and at the same time I received the German nationality certificate for Gregory on January 5. I think it is likely that my son is the only one in the country who currently has three original birth certificates: a Hungarian, a trilingual and a German nationality, but we have finally achieved that there is a German nationality. [[He's showing all three birth certificates.]] Honestly, it only really occurred to me this morning, as I was prepared here, which way he was actually registered, and what surprises would come if we needed his birth certificate somewhere. So I'm afraid that that four-year-old Canossa trip hasn't quite come to an end yet. I am telling you all this because we have a law and a law amendment that states that nationalities living in Hungary are subject to nationality registration. On paper, at the statutory level, everything seems to be fine, in practice it took four years of fighting to get our child a nationality certificate. If I, who was aware of the legal background, who was the deputy president of the National German Municipality, who, from the time of the Ombudsman, mobilized all the existing forces in Budapest, was not in a rural small settlement, it took me four years to live with my legal right to receive a nationality register for my ethnic child, then this law does not work in practice here. Whether there is a problem with executive regulations, the preparedness or attitude of executives, or with political intent, I leave this analysis to you and the specialists. Here's another similar story, by the way, because after having the nationality certificates, what does a decent ethnic family do? He takes his children into a native language environment; Germany is far away, let's go to Austria. The border has been stopped; we ask for passports; due to the Austrian-Hungarian European Championship, border controls have been temporarily restored and not allowed to pass. I must admit, we tried to smuggle our children out on two other border crossings, and we failed, so we returned to Budapest. The next morning, Bratislava Street, getting an extra passport. They're gonna put the first passport card in front of me, and she told me to sign here, but don't let me out of the box, 'cause then they can't handle it. I'm looking at the line below: a national passport application for signature. I'm telling you, I'm sorry. I'd like to ask for a nationality passport. - What? There's no such thing. - I'm telling you, it's written here. - Yeah, we're just using it to get someone out of the regular box, so you don't have to fill out a new card, you sign it at the nationality, and we'll take it. [[Defiance.]] Well, I was gonna say nationality, but my wife said that we only have four days left of freedom, and it's gonna be another four years, right? I don't want a nationality passport. [[10.10]] What does a good husband do? I said, of course, that I wouldn't want it then, and the next day we took a Hungarian passport. But I will not give up, and now that my children's Hungarian passport has expired, I will ask for a German nationality passport, and I will report to you, I hope not four years from now, how successful I have been. And if anyone thought that was the past, I would like to say that when I said all this at the minority committee meeting on Monday, my Greek colleague, Koranis Laucratis, came to me and said that you spoke from my heart, Imre, because I had a new grandson three months ago, and he still doesn't have a birth certificate. I sincerely hope that at least he doesn't have to wait for him for four years. Because I would add that if we - the German is a world language - have to walk such a Canossa, then what are the chances of the smaller nationalities, Serbian, Croatian or Slovenian, don't give God, Armenian or Ruthenian, who asks for nationality registration in Hungary. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-29-14	Thank you very much for this speech on the otherwise instructive genealogical history of development, but to add to your problems, it is my duty to say that even the use of the demonstration tool is subject to the approval of the House Committee. [[Defiance.]] Well, we survived that, too. Let's keep moving. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, please.
u2015-04-29-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gábor Staudt's seven-minute lead speaker with sweats [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Compared to yours, it was nothing.]] I would like to add the following. He may be able to listen to the personal example. Look, my fellow Member, I grew up in a family that I didn't say in the past, because I didn't have to, it wasn't necessary, I'm just doing it for your education, I grew up in a family where my father and mother were two-handed workers. There was a situation in Miskolc, at the Tisza station, where I sold our own fruit to buy bread. What I'm trying to say to you is that I know what poverty is, and you may not even know the concept of it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Gábor Simon knew!]] I know poverty, I've lived it. I do not want you, nor anyone, nor the walls of this Parliament, or anywhere else, to deny me the right to take any means that the law allows me to do in order to eradicate poverty. Yes, I am not willing to forget, but I am consistently doing everything I can by virtue of my own abilities and strength to take part, if necessary, in a hunger process, if necessary, using other means to move forward on this issue. But I didn't say it about the personal example, but also because I expect consistency from you and from you. You know, when the party that you're a member of argues for Sunday's closure and then does something else, you don't talk to me about consistency and a lot of other things. As far as public employment is concerned, I would like to add one more time: people who do decent work must pay decent wages. Labour law protection must also be granted to everyone else in Hungary and, in addition, value-creating work must be created. This bill, it's just a beauty patch and a snail tunnel compared to what should be done in terms of public employment. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2015-04-29-16	Thank you, too. Before I pass on the floor, I respectfully call to the attention of my fellow Members, not limiting anyone to the exercise of the rights of their representatives, in order to negotiate a law amending the civil procedure and certain laws relating to public employment. Try to speak on this subject. Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, requesting the next two-minute word.
u2015-04-29-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to respond to the words of Imre Ritter, in a sentence to Nándor Gúr, that Gábor Simon said similar things in Parliament, and how it ended! Let's wait and see. Let's wait and see. In response to Imre Ritter, I thank you very much for speaking these thoughts, and this also confirms that there is a place for ethnic advocates in Parliament, and it is very good that they can bring in a system of considerations that we may not see every day; even those who claim to be nationalists, but do not go through this torture. This also proves that the implementation of good laws in Parliament, or even a provision in the right direction, is at least as important. And it is very important that those who carry out the implementation of these laws, whether or not they are registered, can do so properly. The speech was a very good example of the fact that the government must lay down not only the passages set out in the National Assembly or the Government Regulations and, as a matter of fact, think that the problem is solved, but also the administrator, with whom we say that the nationalities and, say, citizens seeking a register meet, will be his knowledge, which determines how much of the laws can be observed. And I particularly liked this, and I am saying this in this sense when my fellow Member said the rubric was there, so someone had already thought about doing a form, but even the law-abiding people didn't notice that it was there for a reason, and it was possible. So I'm asking the government to pay more attention to the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-29-18	Next speaker was Mr János Pócs, Member Fidesz. Here you go, two minutes.
u2015-04-29-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In addition to such an important and noble cause, I believe that, in addition to the opposition remarks that have been made in this House, there is no way to go. Those who dealt with the problems of the people, Congressman Gúr, as mayor, have experienced that, however much you drive it like a parrot, that you cannot make a living from 47,000 forints, no one said, or even confessed that you can live, but that the HUF 47,000 is more than HUF 27,000. And perhaps as mayor of practice, as former mayor, I say that community service must also be protected in the sense that, as mayor, I have experienced people lining up in the office. Their problem was not what could otherwise have been, and it is legitimate that there is little 47,000 forints, but that more people would like to work in this community service program. And their opinion, believe me, is more important than yours. And, my dear Congressman Gur, do you not feel the remorse that speaking to you, to you about money and creating the mood that people have to make a living on is false, discredited and unreputable? You, who with Gábor Simon, who had stolen hundreds of millions of forints in your pocket, organized a hunger procession, and instigated people who really didn't have money for bread, and you had hundreds of millions of forints in your pocket, didn't you think that speech was crooked and unfair? Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-20	We now have Members who have asked for a normal word to speak. First, I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, the representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm trying to get back to negotiating the law in a rather inconvenient way. Dear House, First of all, I would like to talk about whether it is right, because one of my fellow Members here has spoken about several laws coming before us at the same time, and his trial takes place at the same time. I have been against the negotiation of salad laws for a very long time, and I have been in the position for a very long time to negotiate the laws separately, preferably. Yet, there are situations in which very small laws can join other laws, major laws or major amendments where this solution is simply appropriate. So I think that we are against it, and it is right to oppose where a real salad law is being put forward. I don't think that's the way it is right now. Well, considering what's in the law, it's something I'd like to deal with now, apparently marginal, but it's still very much connected to what we've just heard from the nationalist advocate. That's the question of predator names and letter names. In Hungary, in particular, in the lowland region, the name and letter names are quite simply historical in the sense that long historical processes have been reported in a settlement, while a family has developed a name. [[10.20]] This was not necessarily, in fact, the rarest pejorative, rather, a type of discrimination that, very often, brought and meant a kind of respect for the family. What's this about? If someone is called S. Tóth on Mezőtúr, it cannot be confused with all the other Tóths - there are many more Tóths - everyone knows what that means, what family it means, what kind of family that family has. I believe that this is important, and therefore the treatment of this is particularly psychological, just as it is with regard to the issue of nationality; in the same way or almost the same way, and I think that it is almost the right thing to do. This means, Honourable House, that we must be careful about this issue, with caution and with permission. I am convinced that admissibility is the only right solution here. Permissibility means that, in the case of a family, the decision-making license should not concern the state, not the power, specifically the family, the one that wears it, wants to wear it, or does not want to wear it. Each decision can be fully justified, and each decision must not only be lawful but also be accepted. I think very strongly that it would be possible to eliminate a spot of color by restricting it, which would significantly limit Hungarian reality in the Hungarian countryside. Therefore, my position is that the legislator must strive to be acceptable. Therefore, this border, which is marked here by the law on 1 January, is, I believe, unnecessarily incorporated into this law. This needs to be thought about, and I believe it needs to be changed. The other question, which is also of a practical nature, and perhaps also from my past, from my previous occupation, is that I wanted to deal with it - before marriage, it concerns the payment of a marriage name where the spouse no longer bears or can no longer bear his previous name. As you say, if you do not indicate what name you intend to wear, in this case the name of your birth must be entered. That's okay, because some name has to be entered, but there's something missing here. Very often, in the absence of information or because of bad information, there will eventually be harm to interests, so somewhere it must be guaranteed that the information is complete at this time, and not after the conclusion of the marriage or after the birth certificate, wives should first of all realize that there has been a mistake that they did not want. Therefore, I think it is worth thinking about here too. Overall, I agree with the excellent speech by my fellow Christian Democrat, that it wants to serve stability and security in the whole of the amendment, and, not least, I think it is particularly positive for me to look at a law after a period of time - even if it is a short period - and this investigation will come to the conclusion where that law needs to be improved or amended. I would particularly like to deal with the second part of the issue of public work myself. These changes may, I believe, primarily serve the spiritual factor where a little - perhaps not yet enough, but a little bit - can come closer in thinking, feeling, those who are forced to earn their living today in the world of community service to those who have an actual employment relationship; I am forced to use this discipline, since there is no doubt a difference between the two. But what I wanted to say was that of our fellow Member Schiffer, Mr Group leader, which I agree with certain parts of myself. He paralleled community service and the possibility of cooperative work. I think that this is not you-or, but both of them are very much needed. What I would like to say is that we had a true, valid promise to do so, and I, as a small farmer and a small farmer, today very strongly demand that the law on alliances be brought before the House as soon as possible, and this law on alliances seeks to settle agricultural matters in the first place. In the absence of this, the transition from the world of public work to the real world of work in rural areas will be very difficult or impossible in some areas. Let's be clear. We can say all kinds of things, in some areas there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, in other areas it is hopeless to return to the whole world of work, because there is simply no such work. The alliance could open up a great deal on this road, and I think that we have a responsibility here to bring this covenant law before the House, to discuss it thoroughly, and to establish a covenant law that will extend to the conditions that involve the soil in order to create as many jobs as possible. Therefore, I think that this step that has just been taken is a significant step, even in its own smallness, because it has to arouse the feeling or the feeling in those who work in the field of public work that they are doing a job that society not only appreciates but also tries to underpin by legislation. However, we cannot and must not stop here, and I believe that we must move on, and in accordance with our promise to bring back to the real world of work those who may now be forced into the world of public works, we will create their conditions. Overall, the law itself, I believe, is a good direction and can be supported, so we small farmers also support it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-22	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, In fact, what I would like to do at the beginning of this saying is why it is a pity not to bring professional arguments into this House. I would protect everyone from taking this debate away in the direction of personal debate, because it is possible to ask the question a few days after the unfortunate murder of a Trafi, who is the melon producer in this House who has a traffic wife, and then has the right to lecture anyone about anything morally. I could either ask my fellow Members, Mr Staudt, whether they wrote his contribution in Moscow, or you made it up. However, I think it would be better to take the direction that we started, and I am very pleased that our fellow nationalist spokesperson has discussed the practical application of this law, because this is the most painful point of this part, I think. We can write anything in this case, we can write anything down about the need to consult the national authorities, when, by the way, we are at the Greek spokesman, who is my personal friend, let us say, I wonder if, for example, these Greek documents are available and, where appropriate, whether the practical handling of this issue has been resolved. Because I do not dispute anyone's positive intentions on this issue, but the reality is that when a nationality person who wants to ask for nationality documents - and the advocate said this very well - meets reality, it is different from anyone else in this House. So it is an important question - and I would like this idea not to remain hanging - that it is also necessary for the government to review whether the institutional system is suitable for this. I do not think that there is a need for general improvements and amendments here, but I do - and I ask the Secretary of State to do so - to look at how this situation is, whether any amendments going through this House can go flat. The other question was this: I appreciated the comment by Béla Turi-Kovács, who was before me, and I also agreed with him, partly less in conclusion, but I have to say that it was very valuable thoughts. Listening to me often reminds me of how good it is to have these ideas here, but if you accept a criticism from me - and I apologize - don't take offense - I don't always feel that the proposals that my fellow Member makes many times in the majority position apply, and I agree with them myself, for example. It would be nice to see that, where appropriate, these would be more effective. [[10.30]] For example, it was an interesting point, what my fellow Member Schiffer did today, a little Polemized and slightly agreed. I would also urge that if we had a cooperative law before us and could talk about it. I hope this moment can come. But back on the subject, I wrote, my fellow Member, Gur, made five specific questions, five specific points, and that is what we would like to be answered in this debate. One is the reason why non-linked proposals are being discussed. This is all the more important, because, by the way, the Government's legislative plan was also separate, I think, if I remember correctly, in line 42 and 43, these two proposals. This is also interesting, because if you look at this debate from the outside, you feel a bit like the ballet dancer and boilersmith training in the Hidden Book, how the boots got on the table. So when someone looks at this debate from the outside and joins one stage of the debate and then into the other stage, they think that people are crazy who are talking about it because they are talking about two things that are not connected. The other part is what I was talking about in Parliament yesterday. It is very difficult for a decision-maker to have a law before him that he could otherwise support in his heart, for example, I could support these birth-booking directions if I could see that this would actually happen here, until another which he did not. So the situation is difficult, and I do not think it elegant that if I ignore the law on legislation and say that I am asking for an elegance, I do not consider this solution to be elegant. If I'm being strict, what I can tell you is that I don't think it's a good thing for the legal system that you guys operate on this thing all the time. Frankly, I have an argument with my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, when he said that I thought it was a very good approach, but I do not agree with him, I fear that it is not a salad law when it comes to two laws. I think that, when it comes to two completely incompatible things, it also makes it impossible for a fair and homogeneous position to be crystal clear in this case, while I understand that it is much worse if there are 70 laws that have the same thing. Unfortunately, I do not see the legislative transparency of the government, and I can see more precisely that there are twenty-five out of line in the seventy laws, and there is one in the two that does not fit. That was the first question. The second question is why, in virtually many respects, there are different rules on freedom for public workers than for other workers. This was the second question that my fellow Member Gúr asked, namely why, for example, freedom beyond fundamental freedom is not enforced on public workers. This is a specific question that I think can be answered, why do they think that this freedom is not due to them. I understand that, by the way, the proposal approximates rights to workers' rights in many respects, but this is still the case today. The third, my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, also said that in some cases time limits have been reduced and shortened. What was the reason for that? What can be done in two days in this country? The fourth such request, which was made by my fellow Member, Mr Attila Péterfalvi, expressed his opinion on this proposal, did you see whether you agreed with him whether he had any criticisms. The fifth, which seems to be a small step forward in the proposal, is that three-day training is allowed in the proposal, and what trainings these three-day courses are. So, in terms of training to improve the position of the labour market, can it be said that most of the training courses are three days' training? Because then, of course, this proposal is good. But that's not the case at that stage, it's longer training. Couldn't this training period be extended to a larger training period? These were the specific issues that my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, spoke about, and at this stage of the debate, I think it is important to repeat them in order to see if we can redirect the debate a little bit back on these specific issues, and I would very much like to have an answer to that, too, as to the explanation of the questions that we have asked. Thank you for listening. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-04-29-24	Thank you very much. Speaker Ritter Imre is next as a normal word applicant. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-25	Thank you very much. First of all, I will follow Mr. President, and I apologize for the fact that, unlike the house rules, I was partisan here. It was an idea at night, and I didn't think it through probably enough. Secondly, I would also like to thank Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács for exposing us. I think you are absolutely right that this is also a very serious issue of conscience. I didn't want to agree to what comments and comments I received during the four years; I don't want to do it now. However, I would like to point out that this is of practical significance in addition to spiritual matters, since, from the time it was a birth certificate to a person belonging to a German nationality, from this point on, if you go to a kindergarten, you don't have to write novels about why I belong to a nationality and which one, but I will put down the birth certificate. Or we went to the school in Austria; we don't need a certified translation from a notary to read it, I don't have to explain it, but I'm hanging up, and it's a German national. So this has very practical, other specific advantages. Finally, this passport filling sheet. Of course, you can and you try to understand it so often that you can, you can smile at it, you just have to think about it again, that where you have the opportunity, and then you send people that you don't, there's no nationality, it's just that you can sign again, and then in a few years, you can see that, yeah, no one asked for a nationality passport, then you don't need it, so let's take it out of the law. I also wanted to draw attention to this part and this danger. Thank you.
u2015-04-29-26	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since there is no standard word, we will proceed to the two-minute speech. Congressman Nándor Gúr asked to speak in two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say a general sentence, which is, in fact, about the fact that it is our duty to do things for the public - but for anyone else who, say, lives their lives on the stage of poverty - between the walls of Parliament, obviously, we all, regardless of political color, have a better position. If I were to base on the standard of living that Members live their lives under, of course, a better standard of living than those of whom we are talking, whether we are entitled to speak for them, then we could not speak for them, but that would be silly, because that is exactly what we have to do and our responsibility to change this situation and make it better. This bill is trying to carve me in some elements of the bill, try to take measures that want to shape a little, try to give the public, for example, a small opportunity. But I personally believe that it does not address the basic issues, and these are the basic questions that should be answered. My fellow Member, Mr László Kiss, repeated the questions that I have already taken up, but I also think that the basic question is, to my fellow Member, Mr Pócs, who suggested how to get to the point that those public workers who received HUF 60 200 in 2010 should not now receive HUF 52-53 thousand; not by losing forints, but by keeping at least HUF or increasing the value of their work, if they are combined with value creation and respectable to others. That is what we should be trying to do and to ensure that these people are safe within the framework of appropriate legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2015-04-29-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. With that in mind, the general debate is closed as no one has applied for further speeches. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to react now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-04-29-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Members with respect for their contributions, in particular those which basically accepted or considered acceptable. I would also like to thank the ethnic advocate, Imre Ritter, for his contribution. In connection with his comment, it has been said, among other things, that a law is worth something when it is implemented and enforced. The reorganisation of the public administration, the reform of the administrative system, the development of new training structures and the establishment of qualifications conditions, I believe that there may be a guarantee that there will be no future problems of this type raised by the spokesperson. [[10.40]] Employment policy issues were largely highlighted during the debate, which is clearly not the subject of this bill. I would just add that, based on today's statistics, there are 4 million 117 thousand people in employment in Hungary, which is 2 percent more than at this time last year. At this time last year, the opposition pointed out to the government parties that public employment would be peaked and that after the elections there would be no public workers, and employment data would fall back - while three elections went down, employment went up independently, public workers had the necessary resources provided by the government - and the number of public employees would not change significantly compared to this time last year. Nevertheless, the number of people employed increased by about 80,000. This shows that the government's employment policy has a result and jobs have also been created in the economy. Congressman Gábor Staudt asked why the time for the presentation of contracts is falling from five days to two days. This cut in time is clearly in the interest of the public worker. After all, this means that you have time to present your contract two days before entering another employment relationship, you do not have to present it five days before. In Hungarian: you can move more flexibly to employment beyond public employment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-30	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The 1995 LXIV on the Children's and Youth Fund, the National Foundation for Children and Youth and on the organisation of certain state tasks related to youth. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4450. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Law on the Fund for Children and Youth covers the Fund for Children and Youth, grants or objectives under the Fund, as well as the minister's youth-related tasks. As a chapter-based appropriation of the Children's and Youth Fund programme, shorthanded by the Ministry of Children's and Youth, led by the Minister for Children's and Youth, it supports the programmes, organisations, initiatives and the development of young people's professionals under the GIA Act. In the light of the objectives set out in Section 2 of this Annex. Such goals are the physical, spiritual, spiritual development of the child, education for home knowledge, patriotism, education for democracy, civic education, strengthening the ability of young people to solve their own problems. The above is complemented by a support scheme, which also serves the same objectives as the Children's and Youth Fund programme, followed by the Youth Programmes under the EFOP, which provides a total of HUF 1 billion in four years for the organisation and implementation of community-building events and programmes for the children's and youth groups. The purpose of the amendment to the GYIA Act is to repeal the elements of the dissolved institutional system, following the organisational transformation of the public administration, and to extend the forms of support from the revenue of the basic programme, which will therefore be available again, in addition to the open and restricted tender procedure, in the form of individual aid. The former youth background institution, Mobility and its regional background institutions, with the transformation of regional youth service offices, is one of the most important representatives of the Hungarian youth profession, the New Nemzeték Nonprofit Kft. I did. The basic goal of the government's youth policy is to keep young people at home, to increase the commitment of the growing generation to public life and the future of Hungary. To this end, the government wants to provide knowledge and living conditions that can serve as the proper background for a sure existence and then for the founding of a family. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the new generation programme, the National Youth Policy acts as a professional service background institution, along with the offices of twenty county contact points. Its activities include, on the one hand, the design, operational implementation of the objectives and programmes set out in the youth policy, participation in youth research and, on the other hand, the implementation of projects related to the youth target group financed by national and European Union funds. Ladies and gentlemen, The Children's and Youth Fund programme was launched two decades ago, during which a number of valuable programmes for children and young people were implemented from the GYIA budget. We hope that the basic programme will be a sure source of youth events, series of programmes, training of youth professionals for a long time. That is why I ask you to support, on the basis of the above, the bill, which serves and supports the interests of children and young people, which regulates and contains technical amendments to the basic programme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-33	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In connection with this law, the government party cannot be accused of not discussing the laws in too much detail. It was also a major challenge to draft a keynote speech on this two-line law, so I promise you I will be very brief. Mr Secretary of State said that the amendment of the Law on the Fund for Children and Youth, the Child and Youth Foundation, concerns two points. Congressman Gábor Staudt has just indicated that he would be pleased to see us stick to the bill tabled during the debate on the bill, the truth is that that is what I would like to do. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Thank you very much.]] That's why I'll be very brief. The amendment consists of two parts. One amending proposal allows the allocation of GIA grants for programmes, organisations and initiatives of children, young people and young people, not only by tender but also through individual grants. I think a number of our fellow Members have been in a situation where there have been programmes that they would have liked to support, even at municipal level, but the legal requirement was that they could indeed be supported through tenders. We had to go through a process so strange that we had to put out a tender, that organization, event, program had to write a tender for it, and then, after a month, it was assessed, and it received the money that was already known at the time of the tender that everyone really wanted it for this organization. I think these unnecessary circles should be eliminated from the system in such special cases. Obviously, it is right for most of the money to be distributed by tender [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But they could be... Obviously, it is right for most of the money to be distributed by tender, but there may be special events, there may be special situations where it is justified that - how should I put it? - let's not go down a little shady. I believe that is why the government has submitted that individual aid should also be given an opportunity. The other half of the amendment is even simpler. After all, the organization has already changed with the decisions that have been made so far and is repealing those points in the law that concern the departments that are already not alive. So, in fact, this amendment adapts the law to the situation that exists today. Thank you so much for listening. I hope that Congressman Gábor Staudt liked that I spoke only about the bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Thank you very much. It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-34	I give the floor, honourable Parliament, to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here. [[10.50]]
u2015-04-29-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I would continue on this line, which was opened by my fellow Member Márius Révész, and I would also focus on the points ahead. However, allow me to say that, since I was just talking about how inappropriate I consider the general practice of the government to introduce salad laws that I have in front of me a little bit of a paragraph law, it is a good thing that the Ministry has broken the general practice of the government, and has now introduced such a law, which is part of the truth. I think that it can really help us to ensure that our citizens are able to comply with the law if we look at the amendment of individual laws separately. Although there is only one law on three paragraphs before us now, I think it is the right thing to do. If I have said my criticism earlier, allow me now to say my positive remark: I am glad that this is the case before us, and it is not as part of the seventy-two of a law on agriculture, or on a boiler forging, that is the proposal that we have before us. It's really not long what it's about. The Secretary of State has told me what it's for. However, I will ask if it really serves these goals. It serves to enforce youth policy objectives by handing over the decision-making powers of the Board of the Fund for Children and Youth to the Minister responsible for this. This is not only about individual support in the system, but also about what has been decided so far by the Council of the Fund for Children and Youth, which is a broad body, the composition of which is decided by a government decree, which will now be decided by the Minister. The reason why this change is incomprehensible to me, and I do not understand why this is necessary, is because on the one hand, the composition of the council is defined by a government decree or by law, which you could modify. On the other hand, because, in accordance with the legislation, the President of the GYIA Council is appointed, for example, on a proposal from the Minister, the person proposed by the Minister is the President of the GYIA Council, so there is no reason why the intention of the Ministry should prevail both in the preparation of decisions and in the conduct of them. In this regard, we therefore feel that this passu of this law is incomprehensible. But to be precise, he says that the directions and proportions of the annual use of the basic programme - a nice literary solution, I certainly appreciate that - will be decided by the Minister on the evaluation of applications and on the basis of the individual support request on a proposal from the body set up for this purpose. So both evaluation and individual aid needs are decided by the Minister. If this is achieved, the GYIA appropriation cannot really be anything other than a ministerial framework, which is otherwise included in the budget in a slightly more specific way than other ministerial frameworks, and which is authorised by law, but which can be amended and prepared at any time. So, in fact, this makes the institution of the Child and Youth Fund a single ministerial framework. I cannot support this direction, and I do not understand how it serves the youth policy objectives that we have talked about. Article 2 Paragraph 1 of Section 2 of the Act provides that legislation on the Youth Service of Mobility is to be removed from the law. This is obviously correct, for the speakers before me have addressed it, and this system has been abolished. The Secretary of State told me about a new system being built. Obviously, it would also be right for the new system to be introduced into the law, but it doesn't matter now, I don't want to dream big, but it is important to note that I didn't agree, for example, with the introduction of this system. I'm afraid I can't agree with the subsequent transfer of the conversion, so forgive me. If I can't agree with the ethnogenesis of a decision, then I can't agree with the afterlife. It's such a logical relationship. However, it is obviously right that this should be validated here. As to what my fellow Member Révész said about individual aid needs being found, there are worthy arguments, but we do not know any number, no law or anywhere else, the figures relating to the volume of these aid needs are not shown. It is also easy to say that such individual subsidies will represent a significant part of the HUF 60 million cut in GYIA, while the grants will be less. I do not think that is necessarily the aim, but if such a proposal is made about such individual subsidies - I am not sure that this proposal is from the devil, I do not like it, but I am not sure it is from the devil - I would like it to be accompanied by a proposal on what percentage of these individual aid needs could represent the original programme. It is unfair, however, if the situation arises that it is a much greater part of the direction of support that goes on an individual request than it is in the normal tendering procedure. As there is no guarantee that these subsidies will indeed go to the needs that my fellow Member Révész spoke about, that they will solve it in order to deal with specific situations which are not justified otherwise. Well, there's no such guarantee element in this otherwise not-so-long law. If we look at it and say that we do not see in any way why it serves the objectives of youth policy, that the Fund for Children and Youth should be reduced to a ministerial framework, and that we do not see guarantee elements in how individual needs will be in place in this programme, we have, for the third time, disagreed with the transformation of the youth system, so we cannot agree with its transfer, I am afraid, so I can say that I cannot support the law in this form. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-29-36	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László Szászfalvi, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-29-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Children's and youth policy has always been a priority area in relation to the opportunities of the government, since supporting the future generation is also the key to Hungary's successful future. The GYIA Act concerns the Fund for Children and Youth, the objectives eligible under the Fund and the minister's youth-related tasks. The Fund for Children and Youth shall support the development of programmes, organisations and initiatives of children and young people as well as of young people, such as physical, mental, intellectual development of children, local knowledge, patriotic education, protection of the natural and built environment, community initiatives of young people, initiatives of their own organisations and groups, participation in democratic decision-making, the operation of collaborative youth institutions, non-governmental organisations, education on democracy, the practice of democratic functioning and the strengthening of the capacity of young people to solve their own problems, and participation in the European integration process. The income and balance of the GYIA at the end of the year shall not be deducted. The Council of the Fund for Children and Youth shall carry out recommendations, opinions and advisory tasks for the Minister for Children and Youth, propose the award of grants from the Fund for Children and Youth, contribute to the tasks of monitoring and evaluation and propose to the Minister the priorities for support for the Fund for Children and Youth. In summary, my fellow Members, as has already been said, the purpose of the amendment to the GYIA Act should be to repeal the parts concerning the elements of the institutional system that have ceased to exist, following the organisational changes of the administration, and to extend the forms of support that can be provided from the revenue of the basic programme, as proposed, and to make the individual form of support available again in addition to the open and restricted tender procedure; I would like to stress that it will be available again. It will support the same objectives as GYIA in the next four years to support youth programmes under the EFOP, which, as the Secretary of State mentioned, will provide a total budget of HUF 1 billion to organise and implement community-building events and programmes for children and youth from here and beyond. [[11.00]] Important changes have been made to the background institutions in recent years, since the New Nemzetvéd Központ Nonprofit Kft. He became one of the most important representatives of the youth profession. The New Generation Center Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the programme "New Generations" the national youth policy acts as a professional service background institution, together with its 20 county contact point offices. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Its activities include, on the one hand, the planning and operational implementation of the objectives and programmes set out in the youth policy, participation in youth research and, on the other hand, the implementation of projects related to the youth target group financed by national and European Union funds. On this basis, the KDNP supports the bill and I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-29-39	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Basically, they seem to be simple technical amendments, well-intentioned technical amendments, especially those relating to the GIA, but they raise a number of questions, and I would also like to ask the Secretary of State to help us understand the intention behind this and to inform us of the things behind it that the law does not specify. Yes, in some cases it may be important to return individual aid needs to the system, and on this basis to provide funds for important purposes, but I would also like to ask you, and I would ask the Secretary of State, to answer to what extent and in what proportion individual aid needs will be possible. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's hand shows five.]] What defines this 5 percent, as indicated here by the Secretary of State, is my second question. My third question is a hypothetical question, although I believe that, on the basis of a number of negative experiences in recent years, a legitimate question is what gives us a guarantee that 5 percent will not subsequently rise to a much higher level, which I believe would distort the objectives of the entire GIA, the objective of providing the available funds to the applicant organisations on the basis of calls for proposals. Can you guarantee that this mandate will not be used to increase this 5 percent to a much larger framework, a much larger proportion? Speaking of GYIA as the Children's and Youth Foundation, I would like to ask you what your goals are with this organization, how your budget is planned at all. Here, a number of people have indicated in their speeches how much attention the Government pays to youth policy, youth, so that sounds nice in terms of words, but let's just say we have enough to look at the budget of the last few years in the case of GIA, and we are somehow experiencing the opposite. Please allow me to mention only a few arguments: in 2008 this fund was available for HUF 225 million, after which it was still HUF 220 million in 2010, and from there we reached HUF 65 million. So once again, the size of this framework has decreased from HUF 220 million to HUF 65 million in 4-5 years. That's about it, now with a quick count, that's a third of the level five years ago in five years. This is a very serious reduction, and it's discrediting a little bit of your youth-related, well-sounding communication. So I ask what plans are made for the GIA budget, whether it is expected that they will be able to raise this to the level of five years ago. I think it's very important, and Jobbik would think it's very important. Basically, however, the Council has delegates from professional organisations in whom we can trust and who can guarantee that they can receive money from organisations that are actually spending this money for good, important, youth-related purposes. The second part of the bill itself is a non-executive paragraph, which refers to the fact that, a few years ago, the regional offices of Mobility were terminated with a single stroke of a pen and are now being conducted through it. In itself, it is also talkative that it will be brought here to Parliament three years after the decision has been made. If I was right, then perhaps this should have happened the other way around, but the law is the highest legislation, and perhaps it should have started to change it here, and this should have been enforced in practice afterwards, rather than a reverse process being carried out here. By the way, this shows your attitude towards youth, that in three years there has not been a law that, let's say, specifically dealt with youth, and what they could have put in this paragraph, or they didn't think in three years that it would then have to be implemented, it would have to be amended at a legislative level. So, so much for the fact that you are also talking about youth as a priority for government. I continue to argue that, and based on recent years, I see the opposite. Not to mention that we can't agree to the termination of Mobility offices. It worked in seven places in the country, as far as I know, with a very good team of professionals, they performed a lot of tasks, they dealt with a lot of tender advice, organising training courses, helping various civil youth organisations, and they were eliminated. And what is also a very big problem is that the professional staff working here, who had a very serious knowledge, has released a significant part of it into the wind, which, I think, is also a mistake and has a very negative impact on youth. So these are the two amendments; the first is good, but it raises a number of questions, and the second is, in our opinion, the transposition of a wrong decision into the law, with which, I say again, we cannot agree. Therefore, Jobbik will abstain from the final vote on the bill. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2015-04-29-40	Thank you, Congressman Wolf. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-04-29-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself am well aware of all the details of this system, as I have been active in it for a very long time, along with several fellow Members. What we see is that the part that is the second part - I start from behind - is obviously a technical part. We very much regret the termination of these Mobility offices, as we regret - I personally knew a lot of professionals and thought they were very good professionals - that they were laid off and that there is no real professional heir to this system. This amendment is obviously entered into the system several years after they have ceased to exist. We believe that it is obviously the first point that has brought this need, that it is in some interest for you to amend it, and that in the second point, such a technical justification is added. I'd like to move on to the first point. Congressman Révész, I am also asking you here that I do not quite understand what you mean - obviously as a new representative of a new party I am not so familiar with - what it means to have someone promise a support that can be decided by a council and then wait for months. We believe that this must be decided by a council, even in this amendment, listening to the opinion of a council to the Minister. However, we do not consider this amendment to be from the devil, we consider it acceptable, and in many other places it is visible that the Minister will finally make decisions in this direction. And what we think, perhaps, is that the most important intention is that individual opportunities and individual aids are also possible here, this is not something from the devil, but we consider this acceptable, but we should only do so for a certain percentage of the amount, because if you can do this without limit, you can transfer the total amount from the new generation system that is currently in operation to the next moment as individual support, so you can completely evacuate this current system that you are forced to modify. We don't know, we don't see exactly what they're up to. We feel that there are dangers to this amendment. We'll be curious to hear from you. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-04-29-42	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. For two minutes, I give the floor first to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2015-04-29-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the Foundation for Children and Youth, less than a third of the funds have been available in the last five years than five years ago. This is not a good trend, it is not a good trend, which raises it in me as a question for the future - and I would like to ask the Secretary of State - whether this is what they want to continue, or if they want to achieve at least that they want to secure the 2010 level, the amount above HUF 200 million within the framework of the fund. [[11.10]] My second question would actually be why individual decisions should be made, why resources should be used through a multitude of individual decisions, because the Council managing the Child and Youth Fund will lose its right to live if it is not competent in the management of resources. In other words, if you want to place the resources in the Minister's hands with individual decisions, do you want to limit the proportion of resources available to be used by individual decisions or to unleash this story, and how and how the available resources that are shrinking over time will be used is virtually untraceable? I think that I have asked very simple, clear questions in this group, so with great respect I would like to ask the Secretary of State either on the move or in his summary to give clear, correct answers to these questions. Thank you very much in advance. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-29-44	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-04-29-45	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There is no doubt that opposition representatives are right that the GYIA budget has decreased significantly over the last five years, but even compared to last year. At the same time, it should be said that the same objectives as GYIA will also be supported by the EFOP facility, which will provide a total of HUF 1 billion in four years for the children's and youth groups to organize and implement events and programmes for community building on their borders and beyond. The truth is, if you look at these amounts together, there is not a step backwards in this area, but a step forward, and I think it is worth looking at them this way. The other question István Ikotity asked was an example. We know from our local government experience that there is an event with full political consensus, everyone wants to support it, school, EFOP, and then the notary indicates that yes, but according to regulations it is only possible by tender, and then everyone will start and run the tender. I think that if we want to filter out such cases, then we can provide an opportunity that, in certain cases, in specific cases - I agree with that - I would not object otherwise if we set a maximum of this. Individual decisions would be given the opportunity to make individual decisions for the National Children's and Youth Fund in completely specific cases, but the points raised by my fellow opposition Members that it would certainly be appropriate if this were not the general practice... - I fully agree with these points, and I believe that the government has no such intention either. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-46	Thank you, Congressman Révész. I will ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give you the floor, on behalf of the authors, it is Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, who will respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-04-29-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond to one or two things that have been said in the debate, but, above all, I thank everyone for their comments and their words of appreciation. I am pleased that there are many people here who know GIA from their previous years, and I am also pleased that many people have supported the submission of the bill even from the opposition side, in the form of not agreeing with its content. First of all, I would like to state that the GYIA Act 3. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act passed the aid in a similar structure, since it was the decision of the Minister that ultimately influenced the way these resources were made, so there is no change in this respect. In the same way the proposal, more specifically the previous text of the law, is that, on the proposal of the GYIA as a body, the Minister decides on these resources, so there is no change in this respect, and I would say this mainly to the criticisms of the MSZP. Where we are going to record that 5% of the resources that may be available to beneficiaries in the form of other support requests, but of course, in the details of the material submitted, the same rules apply to it as any other form of claim, well, we intend to fix this in an EMMI regulation, which we can obviously publish after this bill has been published in the Gazette, but it can also be seen that it is a fraction of what is done in the form of such individual grants. With regard to resources, I think it is important to see together that we look at the total potential for young people together, because they have not only budgetary resources at their disposal, but, as I said in the Expoze, and my fellow Member Márius Révész said in the debate, it is 1 billion forints that can be called from European Union Community funds by youth organisations or called for youth purposes. So this resource is much more extensive than what's in the budget. The New Generation Centre not only represents a centre, but also an office network, the network of offices of New Generations, which are as intertwined in the country as before by the offices of the Regional Youth Service Provider of Mobility. So professional work and presence remain available to everyone in many, many county cities. I myself met these local offices in Győr and elsewhere, and in Budapest there are several offices of the New Generation Centre, so for all young people who want to use these services, they want to learn about the services of the New Generation. I think that anyone who has visited the New Generation Center website can also see that this is a live website, you can read on their Facebook page a lot of young people's posts, with a lot of information that is valuable to young people. So this has grown into a living information service, living assistance, either on Facebook or on the organization's website, or in the offices of the new generation. So what we have to say is that, in this respect, services for young people and youth services continue to be located in the country at a high level and with national coverage. I believe that much of the opposition's concerns have been answered. I hope that the concerns have been addressed and that, in the final vote, as many of you will support the bill as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-48	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 XXXI on Children's Protection and Child Welfare Administration. General discussion of the bill amending the law to extend the free nursery and preschool children's meals until closure. The submission was made in T/4448. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-04-29-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The catch-up strategy, which was adopted by the government in 2011, basically set the goal of creating a complex assistance institution and service system in Hungary, which is essentially two-focused, active on the one hand, and, on the other hand, beneficial for disadvantaged families that foster children and children. All instruments, all measures that are capable of disrupting the vicious circle that often break the curve of disadvantage over generations, and it is important to strengthen, develop and expand all instruments that serve this most important social policy goal. The catch-up strategy specifically highlights this area, highlights institutional development, such as the introduction of compulsory kindergartens, but also the importance of expanding the scope of other services, benefits in kind and improving access opportunities. [[11.20]] The related costs, expenses, not welfare expenditure, social policy expenditure or costs, but investment, investment not only in the future of children, not only in the future of families caring for children, but also in the future of the whole nation, are therefore important, and the government is committed to supporting, evaluating and, if a programme has worked after the evaluation, expand and improve all measures that serve this purpose. One of the most important tools to achieve this goal is the institutional system itself. Therefore, in children under 3 years of age, the kindergarten, i.e. day care and service, followed by kindergarten, then primary school education and through this institutional system, provide all services or other benefits that are essential for children to fulfil their rights under the Constitution, the Fundamental Law, the right to the highest possible level of spiritual, mental and physical development. This social policy goal has been achieved in recent years, so it is important to keep thinking about its development, its further development and its expansion, so that we can also enforce the social policy principle in order to enforce, in terms of access conditions and targeting, the principle that no one, a child or a family caring for a disadvantaged child should, as far as possible, prove their poverty in applying for such support or benefit and not force families to do so. So the younger this type of help is linked to age, the more universal it should be, the less it needs to be reduced by income tests or other means. In this sense, the government is therefore committed to further broadening the eating of children. Accordingly, it took a decision in December last year under Article 1732/2014. In its resolution No.3 on the intention of extending the free nursery and preschool children's meals. This led to the preparation and submission of this bill, which lies before you. The proposal proposes the annual XXXI on the protection of children and child care management. In order to amend the relevant provision of Act No 4 of the Act on the one hand, to extend from 1 September 2015 the free feeding of children in nursery schools and, on the other, the free feeding of children in kindergartens. The adoption of the amendment to the Child Protection Act provides for the provision of the funds necessary to extend the provision of free children's meals in the central budgets of this year and the following years. One of the government's key objectives is that all children in Hungary have access to several healthy meals per day. This year, significant progress has already been made in the feeding of children, as the amount of support for this has increased by about 10 percent compared to the previous year, from 53 to 58 billion forints. It is also worth noting that over the last five years, the resources for children's meals have doubled from HUF 28.7 billion to HUF 58 billion. The government's goal is to ensure that more children in the nursery and kindergarten can have a free meal. One of the important tools for this is the present amendment of the law, according to which the possibility of having a free meal before school age in the day care system, such as nursery and kindergartens, should be extended from 1 September 2015. This will further reduce the burden for families on raising children and the introduction of the measure will contribute to the healthy development of the future generation. According to the presentation, there is an increase in the number of free dining rooms in the nursery and kindergarten, but more wealthy parents with fewer than three healthy children still have to pay a fee depending on the income limit. In the two types of institutions concerned, the right to a free meal includes children entitled to regular child protection benefits and, in addition to them, children currently entitled to a 50 per cent allowance, i.e. children of families with three or more children. It also covers children who are permanently ill and disabled, as well as healthy children of families who have not yet received support and have permanently sick and disabled children, including siblings, as well as children of parents with two or one child, where the per capita income in the family does not exceed 130 per cent of the minimum wage required, which is HUF 89 408 this year. An important element of the proposal is therefore the extension of the possibility of free meals to other children of chronically ill parents with disabilities. The aim is to relieve the burden of a family of disabled and chronically ill children when raising their children. Of course, during the preparation of the proposal, we also anticipated compulsory participation in kindergarten education from 1 September 2015 to 3 years of age. Due to the increase in children's number due to compulsory preschooling, some 15,000 children are expected to eat free of charge from children who are expected to enter kindergarten education. Under the proposal, the establishment of the right to a free nursery and preschool children's meals is based on the parent's self-certification and declaration of income. Thus, the abuse does not create any difficulty for the parent. The application may be submitted in the nursery or kindergarten. Neither the institution nor the notary of the local government nor any other authority need to examine the terms of the parental income declaration in advance or ex post, so that the extension of the child's meals does not create any additional bureaucratic administrative burden. The detailed rules for applying for a free or reduced meal will be contained in a separate government decree, which will introduce the application form with which the parent can announce his or her request for free meals in the nursery or kindergarten to facilitate the application. With the adoption of our proposal, some 177 442 children will have access to a fully free meal in addition to the current 92 thousand. Thus, overall, the number of children who have access to it free of charge in kindergarten or nursery increases more than three times the number of children receiving this service and eating. I believe that, by adopting this proposal, the extremely important principle of social policy is that children are in our common interest and national interest, that children will receive as much services, assistance and support as possible from the very first moment along with their families, this proposal is fundamentally and significantly helpful, and I therefore call for the support of this House. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2015-04-29-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-29-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We, the members of the Fidesz-KDNP Parliamentary Assembly and the Government of Hungary work every day of the year to ensure that no child starves in our country, and here in the legislation we can do the most for its effectiveness. This is why the Fidesz Fragment is supported by the in-year XXXI. the amendment of the law on the free feeding of children. Our priority is to eradicate child poverty and child hunger and make children's meals free. Since the change of government in 2010, the amount of budgetary support for this purpose has been multiplied. Children's families today are assisted by family tax systems, tax incentives, reductions in rent, social meals, social holidays, scholarships, employment programs, free textbooks and government-supported home-building grants. After the adoption of this bill, the school meal will be free for some 320 thousand children during the school year from the autumn of 2010. It is therefore a significant extension of the free children's meals, because I think it is our moral duty not to starve any children. In 2015, as the Secretary of State said, we spent 58 billion forints on feeding children. This is exactly double the current HUF 29 billion compared to 2010. The government also raised the amount for the summer meal by HUF 400 million to a total of HUF 3 billion. This amount has never been available since the introduction of social summer meals. Twenty-six percent of children going to daycare did not have to pay a discount rate of 50 per cent; in kindergartens 46 per cent, and in primary schools 58 per cent. The food package starting from spring will help families of nursery age who care for children under three years of age. We will spend 34 billion forints on this in the coming years. The introduction of a mandatory kindergarten from the age of three guarantees regular meals for children. The government pays particular attention to helping people in need of social protection, and in 2015 the public framework for social services, child protection and child welfare will increase by HUF 16 billion. Over the last three years, the largest camping system for children has been established for the last 20 years. In the last three years, we have created the possibility of a stay for 400,000 out of 10 billion forints, including 200,000 for children. In 2015, holiday support for those in need will increase to HUF 6 billion. In the framework of the Erzsébet programme, an additional HUF 3 billion is devoted to the summer camping of children, and there is also HUF 3 billion for the rest of pensioners, family and disabled. This year, double the amount of HUF 606 million is already available for children's homes, which are considered to be very successful, in which professionals also help to eradicate child poverty, child hunger and lifestyle advice and other advice. In addition to 114 so far, the government supports the launch of 50 new houses in the next period. Families in need are no longer charged with the cost of textbook support. We introduced the free textbook system, this year's school year, 60 percent of children get textbooks free of charge. Due to public involvement in textbook publishing, textbooks are much cheaper than in previous years, they cost 20% less than in previous years. Finally, let me say that the government and Fidesz are convinced that there is food on the child's table if the family has something to produce it. There's something to it when parents work and the burden of living is reduced. That's what we work for in Fidesz. Only measures to reduce the burden on work and families can lead the individual out of poverty. We are therefore striving to shift permanent job seekers from the world of aid to the world of work and to reduce the burden of living. Hungary is therefore on the right track, as it is doing its best to reduce unemployment at EU level, which has now fallen to 7 percent and is now permanently over HUF 4 million in employment. Thus, more and more families are replacing aid with pay, and this is also encouraged by the reform of the social system. Family livelihoods, besides free children's meals, are now supported by a reduction in overhead costs, family tax systems, wage increases, free textbook services, valuable salaries and more valuable pensions. This year, the families will receive an additional HUF 1000 billion due to bank accountability and forintisation. From July this year, family home creation will be in place, and from next year we will also double the family tax reduction in several steps. So Hungary is now on its way out of poverty and hopelessness. Long-term economic growth and the greatest economic development programme of all time guarantee more jobs and better livelihoods for all Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-52	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Kovács. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-04-29-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, To be rich is to be a good example and to be followed on the other hand. Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, said this sentence in 2014. And what I'm saying is that we deserve only the fate that we give to our children and provide, because the promise of the future is the child itself. Of course, I also have to say that it would be a great demagogy to blame the current government for poverty, the fact is that the current government is responsible for the present poverty, and there is no escape from it. It should be said here that children in kindergarten, who are now in daycare, were born under the Fidesz government, and the majority of children in kindergarten. On 1 November 2014, UNICEF presented its survey that there was a significant increase in the proportion of young people aged 15-24 out of education, employment and training and the rate of child poverty. In four years, the number of people in Hungary who cannot always buy food has increased by two and a half times. That's a pretty accurate definition of hunger. According to the June survey of Gallup, the number of families with a shortage of adequate food has increased by 32 percent in five years until 2013. This situation is currently affecting hundreds of thousands of children in Hungary. According to Eurostat data published in 2014, in Hungary, the number of those who lack a level has increased by 5 per cent in one year, which is 33.5 per cent. So we are the worst among the countries of the Union. The fastest and most dramatic way for the poor to be poor. [[11.40]] We can ask why tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people are on the street against the Internet tax, forcing the government to back down, and for these troubled people, no one ever leaves the street. How is that a problem in the periphery all the time? How come we don't deal with it, we don't deal with it enough in the media, and we rarely talk about it in Parliament? How can you even talk about anything else while a child is starving in Hungary? According to some calculations, this problem could be solved from a few ten billion forints. In the 2015 budget, there are more than 60 billion forints for stadiums and visual projects. [[The intervention of Márius Révész.]] Dealing with true poverty politically, at least in the short term, is not profitable at all, and what is not rewarding does not exist for politics. The poor masses are politically inactive, unable to stand up for themselves, and will never be able to. It's up to those who aren't as poor as they are, that is, our job and our duty. At the same time, with the poor, the given power can do what it wants: they can be taken away from the family allowance, they can be deprived of aid, and they can be taken to forced labour. Today, in Hungary, the home of 620 thousand children is wet, moldy and unhealthy. 35 percent of Hungarian children have to endure severe material deprivation. We could also say that Hungary is a country of injustice and child poverty. Today, it is the greatest risk of poverty for a young couple to have children. In recent years, the German Bertelsmann Foundation has regularly drawn up a list of the countries of the European Union for social justice. Hungary has been at the bottom of the list in recent years, only Romania, Bulgaria and Greece were worse in 2014. The survey shows that one of the components in Hungary, our indicator of child poverty, is particularly dramatic: 24.4 percent had to face serious material deprivation in 2008, 35 percent in 2014; this is worse than Romania, and only Bulgaria is prevented. Another dramatic indicator of children's chances of living is that even in 2008, more children had to face social exclusion in Romania and Bulgaria alone. Then this figure was 31.1 percent, and then it deteriorated to 43 percent under the Fidesz administration. One in three children lives in conditions that are harmful to health in Hungary. Of these, 170,000 children live in apartments where there is no toilet, and there are even more who, according to official data, have dark homes. The 12th Annual Report of the UNICEF Research Institute on Children of Crisis in Autumn 2014 ranks 41 OECD and EU Member States according to whether child poverty has increased or decreased since 2008. With regard to the change in child poverty, Hungary is ranked 29th in the lower third of the 41 developed countries. According to the report, between 2008 and 2012, the child poverty rate increased by 3 percentage points to 22.6 percent, corresponding to an increase of around 33 thousand people. The report also concluded that the poverty of children has deepened in Hungary. Babies born to the poor have no cribs, often even swaddles, do not get extra heat, are sucked for a long time, and they get adult food early. Children arriving from a subculture of poverty to school do not have access at home to pen holders, bags, and absolutely no pocket money or mobile phones; they get used to their senior year not having such desires. In school, they experience every day that they are second-rate citizens of the consumer society, who, at best, only get clothes from the pickup shop, worse, only from the relief packages, or there will be absolutely nothing to wear for the winter. At school, the needy get a free lunch; it doesn't come with a lunchbox to bring the rest home. They are a special problem for parents during the holidays, because there is no free lunch at school, and children have to be fed at home for several days. Children of poor families are excluded from paying contemporary programs, excursions, camps. They live in a new Middle Ages: before going to school they have never seen a flush toilet, and only at a late age they manage to leave the border of the settlement to which they were born. However, the worst is the lack of prospects, that is, what we now know and see clearly: poverty regenerates itself, sooner or later, this generation, growing up in extreme poverty, learns from its parents to think poor and settle down to daily survival without prospects. It is a sociological fact that children who grow up in families with multiple disadvantages have a high chance of reentering the parents'failed course of life, without vision and motivation, as they have experienced with their parents. Parents cannot transfer basic knowledge to their offspring that would serve an outbreak of poverty. I have just read the words of Nóra L. Ritók, who authentically portrays the life of the poor generation. The point of the proposal before us is that, from 1 September 2015, children and preschoolers will be entitled to a 100 percent discount during a child's meal, they will receive a free meal in kindergarten, children of three or more children and children of disabled children, and even children of families where such children live, and, in addition to previous beneficiaries, those of one and two children where the income does not exceed the specified amount. This amount is HUF 89 408 in 2015. It should be said here that the Hungarian Socialist Party welcomes the extension of the children's meals. It seems that the government has found that there is something to be done about child poverty, but it is unacceptable that it has taken several years to make this happen, and this minimal change will happen. You might even think that something has come to you from those thoughts, from the problems that I have dealt with several times, myself and the Hungarian Socialist Party, and in many cases we have spoken about it, asked written questions and even submitted budgetary amendments. However, the current budget amendment does not cover the necessary resources, which will presumably mean that the bled municipalities will have to supplement this resource. Here, the government must be called upon to say that if the issue of feeding children is really important, then the source must also be placed next to it. The Hungarian Socialist Party considers it important that there are no acceptable numbers in Hungary for how many children can starve, this number must be zero. We would like to remind the government that children in the worst situations should have regular meals during holidays or even on weekends. I have also read the news published today, announced by the Secretary of State, that from 2016 the application system will be abolished in the summer social catering. I am pleased that I said yesterday with the budget amendment that this should be abolished, just last night, but also several times; I am glad that this has come to you so quickly, and that they are taking action, and that they are also providing additional resources, not only during the summer break, but also on the other days. I ask the question, Mr Secretary, why do we have to wait until 2016; we give up a stadium and we have the budget for it. Here it must be said that we welcome it - I also said yesterday in my speech how many children will receive and in what institution some kind of discount. [[11.50]] Today, 16 percent, less than 16 percent, and 14 percent, of children of daycare age attend daycare, and about 2 percent still attend family daycare. There are still 84 percent of them, and they should be taken care of. It is not enough to start handing out aid packages from 2016, and this is not the most basic solution to solving the problem of children between the ages of 0 and 3. This is just a step in the eradication of child poverty, and Mr Secretary of State said that it has already been developed in the 2011 strategy. Again, I ask you, it's 2015: what took you so long? And during the 3-4-5 years that they governed, which I read, surveys also prove that child poverty has increased dramatically in Hungary. The government should have interfered much sooner. This is also a small step, and we really call on the government not to plan additional resources for the 2016 budget, but to solve it already during the winter break, 365 days of the year, during the summer break. Our children deserve these extra resources, and I think what I said at the beginning is that the child is the key to the future, and that must be the most important thing for us. Above all, this must be in the eyes of the government. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-29-54	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Mr László Szászfalvi is the lead speaker of the next pre-notified speaker and of the KDNP Group.
u2015-04-29-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 December last year, the government decided to extend the free nursery and preschool children's meals in 1732/2014. Government Resolution No 1 which states that the Government agrees that it is necessary to ensure the provision of food free of charge in the facilities supplying young children as widely as possible. Under the Government Decision, amendments to the relevant legislation should be made in order to increase the free feeding of children in nursery and kindergarten. In order to carry out this task, we have this bill, the Lyvt. to amend the rules on the feeding of children. It is proposed to increase the number of free dining rooms in the nursery and kindergarten, but more wealthy parents with fewer than three children still have to pay a fee depending on the income limit. In kindergarten and kindergarten, the right to a free meal will apply from 1 September 2015 in addition to children entitled to regular child protection benefits, to children currently entitled to a 50 per cent allowance allowance, to children of families with three or more children, to permanently ill and disabled children, and to children of parents with two or one child, where the per capita income in the family does not exceed 130 per cent of the minimum wage, reduced by personal income tax, employee, health insurance and pension contributions, i.e. the net amount. At present, only the permanently ill, disabled child is entitled to a reduced meal, and his healthy brother is not. The proposal also extends the possibility of a free meal to another child of a permanently ill, disabled parent, recognising that such a family bears a greater burden by raising its children. Dear Parliament, The determination of entitlement to a free nursery and kindergarten children's meal is based on the parent's self-certification and declaration of income. According to the proposal, neither the institution nor the notary of the local government examines the terms of the parental income statement in advance or ex post. The submission of a declaration of income concerns only families who are not entitled to free meals for other reasons, i.e. families with fewer than three children and families who are permanently ill with disabilities who are not entitled to regular child protection benefits. The proposal sets out which category of persons should be taken into account as family members living in a common household when calculating income, and states that the family guardian may also apply for the establishment of entitlement to a free or reduced meal in respect of children who are in foster care. In the cradle, according to its maintenance decision, the fee may be charged in addition to catering, and the proposal only expands the range of persons entitled to no compensation in respect of catering, not in respect of the care fee. According to the Government's decision, as of 1 July 2015, the State Vocational Training and Adult Education Agency, the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, will be responsible for the maintenance and professional management of vocational schools and vocational secondary schools from around 500 schools from the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre. That's why we need the Lyvt. to amend these rules on the feeding of children. The Lyvt. In accordance with its current text, the responsibility of the municipal authorities for the feeding of children in schools covers dining rooms in the institutions maintained by the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Let me say a few things about numbers and magnitudes, although the speakers before me have spoken of this, of course. From 1 September 2015, the government will extend the possibility of free nursery and kindergarten meals from 92,000 people to 321 thousand people. At present, 98 percent of preschoolers, 316,000 children, 81 percent of daycare, and 26,000 can eat in the institutions. Together, this represents 343 000 children eligible for arrival in the two types of institutions in total. At present, about a quarter, 27 percent of these 343 thousand children, 92 thousand children living in socially dependent families with regular child protection benefits, can eat free of charge. We have to add to the above that due to a three-year change in the age of preschooling, about 15,000 new children entering the food chain, most of whom will also be able to eat free of charge. Based on this, the number of children who eat in daycare and kindergartens is expected to rise from 343 thousand to 358 thousand, including the number of free dining rooms 3.5-fold and from 27 per cent to 90 per cent. Dear Parliament, However, it should be noted that between 2010 and 2015, from HUF 29 billion to HUF 58 billion, i.e. the government doubled these resources, and the amount for the social summer meal increased from HUF 2.4 billion to HUF 3 billion, i.e. by 25 percent. The total amount spent on catering thus increased from HUF 31 billion to HUF 61 billion in five years. The amount of institutional children's meals is expected to increase by another 3.5 billion, from HUF 58 billion to approximately HUF 61.5 billion, and in 2016 it will result in an additional HUF 10-11 billion expenditure due to the extension of free meals, which will increase the budget for this purpose to approximately HUF 70 billion in the following year. The impact of the government measure on families, the average family costs between HUF 7-10 thousand per month for a child, so the expansion will result in a monthly savings for the families concerned, for the parents concerned; where children have eaten at half the price so far, half of the above amount, as appropriate. In 2016, the families affected will save a total of HUF 12-13 billion, which, I think, will be an extremely important step forward in our fight against child poverty. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On this basis, we can say and believe that this next step by the government proves that the government supports the needy families, the needy children. This bill before us is harmoniously aligned with the government's existing system of family support and employment policy, whose combined, complex impact should help to reduce poverty, vulnerability and, if possible, to eradicate it as soon as possible. Such measures have been taken in recent years: the creation of a family tax system with a tax discount for children; a programme for work instead of a, as well as a reform of the system of public education institutions, see the introduction of kindergarten programmes; the operational stabilisation of programmes for catching up and equal opportunities, such as the "Secure start" houses, as these houses are no longer operating only from tender sources, and the further development of these houses this year with the launch of 50 newer "Secure start" houses. Such an important measure was the reduction of the rent, which also helped and supported these families; the launch of the Erzsébet programmes, which provided different programs, opportunities, recreation opportunities for disadvantaged, poor children; the free textbook program; the start of the family home creation program this year. We are convinced that only all these measures, the complex co-operation of all these programmes, the responsibility of the government, the state and the individual responsibility of the people, the individual responsibility of parents, the change of social thinking, the measures to make them more sensitive, the combined impact of all these responsibilities and all these government and parliamentary measures can only be effective in achieving the eradication of child poverty. I do not want to go into the number war, because there are so many numbers from every speaker. I think it is very, very important to see that process... - my Socialist fellow Member spoke about certain numbers. Mr Secretary of State announced very important and positive figures a few days ago, partly on the surveys of the HCSO and partly on the Tarki. Given that our socialist colleagues do not like to see the data of the HCSO as credible, I would therefore like to indicate the data of the Tarki, which says that, as a result of the analysis of 11 characteristics of the EU standard, there have been significant improvements in relation to almost all 11 indicators over the last two years. I would like to point out that the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation has decreased from 37% to 28%, according to Tarki's statement, and that people living in households with very low working intensity have fallen from 15 percent to 9 percent between 2012-14. I am pleased that my Socialist fellow Member has indicated that he does not want to point out, because I think that every government has a responsibility to combat child poverty. During every period of government, we should have done these complex programs, which we have started in the past, and I say that this is not enough. At the same time, we need to work even more and more effectively to ensure that our various measures, our different programmes, are able to work together in synthesis and harmoniously, since a measure alone will not solve the problems that we are talking about together, but, perhaps, as a combination of many measures, responsibility and cooperation, we can achieve, at some point, that we can say that no child is starving in Hungary, that no child must grow up in such a way that he has to spend his childhood in poverty and need. We all, of course, want everyone to grow up in prosperity, spiritual, spiritual and material completeness in Hungary. On this basis, I can say that this bill, this proposal from the KDNP, is definitely a fully supported proposal. I believe that this bill is an important step in achieving that children in need have access to all that they need, whether as a kindergartener or as a kindergartener. We support the bill, and I ask that Parliament, Parliament, my fellow Members, support it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-29-56	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. I now give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-29-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I don't want to go into a number war either, because since I can remember, I don't really believe in statistics, I don't really believe in the results of representative surveys. When we see that the standard of living in Hungary is improving on the basis of research, the number of poor people is decreasing, in contrast, in everyday shopping, in any private or everyday activity, one finds that this does not change, and in fact, the situation is getting worse. So you can play with words, you can say that you include the concept of depriviality, and how many people live in this state, only the threshold of depriviation, as the standard of living decreases, I think it will rise. So the poorer a society, the less people feel poor, because everyone compares their own situation to others, and when the gaps are getting wider and they see that more people are in a much more difficult situation than they are, even though they, say, working in the social sphere, are looking for a minimum wage, but they think that they have at least a secure job, at least they have a secure income, they do not feel deprived, and even in such a survey, they do not rank themselves in the ranks of the poor. So these numbers are a little tricky. If that's what we're gonna do, we can get off on the wrong foot a lot of times. Turning to the proposal, we agree, of course, that child poverty and child deprivation must be combated, because in my opinion, if the child has to be without it, it is entirely social or individual, whether it is the responsibility of the parents, their social position, the responsibility of the parents or not. Here we have to take into account that this deprivation should be reduced or completely eliminated, as this will give us the opportunity to make a healthy mental and physical situation for an adult at a healthier mental level than for his or her parents. This could also help social mobility. So, of course, we agree that any means must be used to achieve this goal that can help us to achieve this goal, and one part of that is to expand the possibility of free dining. This raises another problem, the problem of the demographic situation. We've talked about family support systems. I think that all Hungarian Members of Parliament should support efforts that are trying to change this situation. I'm gonna have to take this opportunity to talk a little bit about this. I think we are in so much trouble and we will be in so much trouble if these trends continue, that every single Member has to use every single opportunity to talk about these problems, in case we ever get to the solution. So the demographic situation: we are living in an ageing society, which is not only because fewer and fewer children are taking on a low number, but also because young people who are becoming able to work - whom I note in parentheses we have taught from the Hungarian state budget - as soon as they reach the age of workers, they finish their studies, clearly thinking that they should take up work not in Hungary but elsewhere. One day, my fellow Members and I spoke on this subject. We agreed to play the lottery, we said numbers, what percentage of young people might think so, but I think that the majority of young people are already thinking about this alternative, and I think there might be around 90 percent of those who have this option in their mind. That's what needs to be changed. [[12.10]] This can be changed by efforts to encourage childbearing by giving new benefits to parents who have children. Extending the possibility of eating children is also included in this category. The other is that Jobbik's politicians since and even before their arrival were of the view that they should move towards benefits in kind, not only for social benefits, but also for other benefits, where they are finer and harder, in a more drastic way. This is why the expansion of children's meals is also included in this category. Here, the child, who is actually the target of the allowance set by the Parliament, will surely receive this opportunity in a targeted way. In one or two cases, we see that the government is moving in this direction, but we do not understand why the proposals from Jobbik's faction are being swept off the table. I am thinking of the social card, which would clearly cement and fix the benefits system, to be tracked, targeted, and intended by the legislator or the state. So the direction is good, but I think we need to take even stronger steps. Of course, on the basis of the summaries, I say that because we are seeing children in a demographic situation and needy children, the Jobbik faction will therefore support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-29-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I now give the floor to Mr Bernadett the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-29-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Finally, we have a proposal that we can wholeheartedly support, because it is the first step that has taken in many years to combat child poverty, child hunger. However, I must respond to my fellow Member of Saxony. They like to use the expression that they don't want to enter into a number war. Well, there's no war here. What we are talking about here is that there are facts that we have to face. These facts must be interpreted responsibly. A statistic is worth exactly as much as it falls into the hands of responsible people and is capable of demonstrating reality. I see that as long as there are 700 000 children out of the poorest two million in this country, I will have serious debates with Prime Minister if he talks about putting child poverty in parentheses with this step. So, Mr Secretary of State, on behalf of the LMP, I welcome the fact that you are now taking this measure. However, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the beginning of the fight, and here we must go further. I think that this is a matter over parties, and I am very, very sorry that Fidesz has taken so much time to take action. At the same time, let me say that I am pleased that you have given in to the enormous pressure that the opposition has put on you from many sides to stop idly watching this situation. I have been a Member since 2012, and one of my first measures was that during the summer, when it is a long summer holiday, and a lot of children in this country have nothing to eat, I traveled around counties, I traveled around towns and villages, quite small villages. There was a fidesz mayor, a Member of Parliament, who would not let me into the city hall with a noble simplicity to consult the social professionals working there on the situation. So I'm from here, and I'm glad I'm sitting across from you, and you're another Secretary of State, and there's finally something that's been put on the table about this. And we can finally say that positive action is taking place. But I do have questions. I have asked seven questions, and I ask Mr Secretary of State to answer them all, because these are the points where this whole change can be stuck, and it cannot move on. So, as I said, this is the first step in the fight, this is a result, I'll give it to you, you've achieved that, and this should go on. 'Cause I'd like you to extend that to high school students. Because there is hunger under the age of 14 and hunger over the age of 14. I think you know that there are regular child protection students here too. I think we need to step up the government's efforts and extend freedom here too. The other one. I invite you to take a look at this long summer break and see with understanding eyes what's going on. I remember Zoltán Balog had a statement; he is not here now, but I quote him:. He is among the first half-year plans of the Ministry of Human Resources to find a solution to the expansion of the weekends, the summer and winter holidays, taking into account the necessary budgetary resources. I would like you to make a statement, Mr Secretary of State or the Minister, as to whether there is a solution or if you are still looking for it, exactly where you are. 'Cause I think it wasn't a coincidence that I've heard all the time in the past years that, as long as it's school hours or kindergartens are working, we're just-we're just gonna figure it out. We solve with the little money we have, we solve it out of great dedication, love, humanity, something we're trying to do to reduce the shortage. But what if there is no education? And Hungary has a very long summer holiday, and it is a very long time for parents to think about what to give to children to eat. And there is a big problem with eating children in the summer, that they continue to reach only five percent of the children in need. I've been cuffing your predecessor for a very long time to radically increase resources. I have to add that in 2009 the steps here were raised to the current level and then added 6 billion, but the fact is that this is still very little. I think, and this is what our fellow Member of Szászfalvi quoted, that there was a raise here, but we are still at fifth of the children. I think, Mr Secretary, it is time for you to face this, too, that this situation also needs to be changed. My other question concerns the coverage of the current law. The municipalities have a right to fear that they will be affected by the extra burden. The spending surplus will come down there. I will tell you, Mr Secretary, why I believe that the concerns of the municipalities are justified. I noted that you said that it was EMMI data, that between September and December, they would exempt families from payment of HUF 7 billion and next year a total of HUF 19 billion. So this is the money you want to cover this law. But if I look at what's in the frame, what I see is that this year only 3 billion is dedicated to this, compared to the 7 billion that would free families from, and the 19 billion that they said next year that families would be relieved of that amount are marked there. This, however I look at it, is half the amount I need. That's why I'd like to know from you where the other half of this budget is. I was at the hearing of State Secretary Katalin Novák, and we discussed this issue there, but I would also like the EMMI position to be said here in Parliament's Chamber. I have one more concern, and it's about the food regulations. You're gonna pull this off. I assume it's because better food costs more money, and I don't think we have the source. However, what you need to see is that now the food will be free, it should not result in even poorer food that children receive. Therefore, I would like to state that it should be said that it is important that freeness should not lead to deterioration in quality. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether you are prepared to help them with money in the municipalities with a lack of resources. I continue to have a serious debate with the Prime Minister on how much child poverty can be limited to the problem of child hunger. He said on the Kossuth radio that, by extending the free meal for children, we can put in parentheses the discussion on child poverty. I sincerely hope that is not the case. If you think so, Prime Minister, this is a very soulless attitude. I would very much like to ask you not to make it possible that you have now made this law, and then you will be able to do your job. What I'd like to see is that you're going on a journey about children. I would like to see you convince Prime Minister that we need more and more steps to reduce the deprivation of children, which is a thousand, as we know. There are also no shoes in which you can go to school or kindergarten; there are some that you can get to eat, but there are not enough nutrients in it, and you can't grow, you can't see fruit, you can't see vegetables; there are times when you don't have clothes, there's times when you can't get the drugs, and I can't go on. [[12.20]] I think it's the 21st. In the first century, children should also be part of being able to go to the theater, read books, but we all know that there are many families with no colored pencils to draw. I think that such statements should not be made in a country like this, and I think that Prime Minister should withdraw this statement. I hope that you will begin to continue this program. I gave you a suggestion about high school. I'd like to get some reassuring answers about the cover, the costs. My concern is also justified because it is clear that Fidesz is prone to sweeping problems under the carpet. Here is the example of their mayor of Miskolc Kriza Ákos. Recently, the Children's Boarding Foundation wanted to share food in Miskolc for poor children, and Ákos Kriza decided that it was undesirable in the city because he did not want to be in the press with negative news. It was a scandal - because it was scandalous - that in a letter he asked the foundation to choose a different location for the charity action, because Miskolc preferred to be the center of public attention with his development and economic success, so they did not ask for the food given to poor children. So I would also like to hear the portfolio's position on what you think about this and what you want to do to prevent such a thing from happening, because I think that there is nothing better to do than to get the support to the children, and there is no public relations point that could interfere with this. I would like to know the position of the wallet on Mr. Ákos Kriza's attitude. So, overall, I can tell you, Mr. Secretary, that this is a long journey that you have just taken, this is a step forward, and it is very well that you have done so. But it's not okay to wait five years for this. And what I have to add is that your reign in 2011-2013 gave the Hungarian people a bigger slap than the economic crisis in 2008, when it started, and there is much to fix here. Let me remind you that we continue to live in a country where we are in a single-key tax system, with which most of the country suffers ill, and in these families there are a lot of children, because as we know, poverty is concentrated in the area of income poverty, so the lower we are in actions, the more children we find, and all these children are affected. That is why these families should be able to keep as much money as possible from their earnings, because then these children will have more money. There's the question of job creation. Possibly Other Politics has been peddling and lobbying for five years now and asking for a meaningful job creation program in this country. Of course, we need renewable energy sources, we need building insulation, we need local economic development, we need everything you didn't get away with. The Prime Minister is not here now, but I think that it is very important here in the Hungarian Parliament that we always say that the government that does not create jobs here today, in 2015 in Hungary, is also plagued by jobs from which to live, by all the children who live in families who are deprived because of this, because they have no job or work, but by which they cannot make a living. And there's the subject of workers' poverty. We have presented a complete package of proposals in order to finally make a living on wages and salaries in this country, and I am saddened to see that even the most important demands of the most critical people, must be fought, for example, to fight for nurses, but also for daycare workers, so that they can get the minimum demand they have for wages. So I would also ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that, after this bill, which we will support, we take the next steps, and let this really be a matter of parties, let this be a matter that is important to all of us, because it is all about children. The nurses I was telling you about are holding premature newborn babies, working night and day for extremely small wages. The daycare workers I talked about take care of the smallest; while I work here, we work here, they take care of our children; while the working people in Hungary work, they have the future in their hands. I think that these people should be given the highest possible appreciation, of course it also means prestige of the profession, but it must also be reflected in wages. And, of course, all children must be given enough quality and quantity of food, and I urge you, Mr Secretary of State, not to stop until these demands are met. Thank you.
u2015-04-29-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz.
u2015-04-29-61	Dear Parliament, We are in a rather interesting debate right now, because from the comments I felt that this bill would be supported by everyone, and there was a competition between opposition parties, so that who could paint the Hungarian situation more dramatically, not always taking into account the facts. There have been many false or misunderstood misinterpreted statistical references, and many other comments have been made. For example, Bernadett Wind just said that we have finally done something to stop the eating of children. [[Dr. István Józsa: No meals... Public comment: Hunger.]] Once again, Bernadett Wind hears that Bernadett Wind said that we have finally done something to reduce child hunger. I would like to ask Mr Bernadet Wind if he knows how much support the government provided for a child in 2010 for a meal. 65,000 forints. And, say, 2013? 102,000 forints. So something must have happened. Or do you know, let's say, that in 2010 the central budget allocated HUF 28 billion for this purpose, which increased to HUF 44 billion in 2013, and now to HUF 60 billion? So to do this, we've finally done something: we've practically doubled since 2010, in five years, the money we've spent on children's meals. So it didn't just start, it's not the first step, so when we get stuck with these statements, it's worth taking the facts a little more seriously, to say the least. I have to say that, in contrast to all statistics, the Hungarian system is an extremely generous system in international comparison. I always hear with a smile that more children are starving in Hungary than in Romania. If one child is starving - not smiling at this - it is extremely dramatic, but I do not know if my fellow Members know that in Romania there is nothing in schools and that in the vast majority of kindergartens there is no catering. In Hungary there is catering, and the way this catering works is that all children in need have already received free meals three times a day. And then, of course, you can be horrified, a few months ago a statistic appeared that in Hungary a significant part of the children marching to kindergarten before they otherwise don't eat breakfast, and drama, because one of the biggest numbers came out in Europe. My fellow Members, I must admit that my child doesn't eat breakfast either. And you know why? Because in kindergarten, you get breakfast. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No, he gets 10:00.]] Unfortunately, in many other countries there is no breakfast in kindergarten, which is why this question, when asked in an international comparison, means something completely different. Because the child who marches to school in Romania doesn't eat breakfast before marching to kindergarten is starving. A child who doesn't eat breakfast before marching to kindergarten in Hungary, let's say, my child, believe me, he's not starving. That conclusion can be drawn, only this conclusion is a false conclusion. So it must be said in Hungary that a child in need, who goes to school, to kindergarten, cannot starve on these five days of the week, because he has the opportunity to eat free, and this is an extremely generous and fair system even in EU comparison. That is why I think that since we have made a lot of progress in this area - and from budgetary sources too - it would be good for everyone not to try to describe the situation more dramatically than it really is. Obviously, there's a problem, and I can't argue with them saying that on weekends or breaks, it could be a problem because the problem isn't solved. [[12.30]] You're absolutely right about that. But there has also been significant progress in the case of breaks. Let me say in the context of the breaks that the opposition papers rang at the joint-run municipality of Zugló, that during the summer break the municipality provided meals for the children in need free of charge and at a reduced rate, under the conditions of the year. Let me tell you that at the municipality of Kőbánya, in Kőbánya, no matter what kind of leadership he had - this was the case when he was a socialist mayor, and even when he was or was a Fidesz mayor - we always provided meals free of charge for children who received meals during the school year. Under the same conditions. The fact is, dear Mrs Bernadett Szél, that even though it is announced that anyone who goes to summer camp in the municipality of Kőbánya will be fed under the same conditions as during the year, only a quarter or a fifth of the children in need will go away. So the opportunity is given, it is advertised, so much so that we write a separate letter to the parents that everyone who has a problem with the meal will also get a free meal during the summer break if they take their child to summer camp; a quarter or a fifth of the children will come. In the case of kindergartens, this situation is much, much more favourable. But it is true that here too, the budget has significantly increased the amount of aid for summer. However, the main problem I think is that this amount is still available in a tendering framework, and perhaps it would be worth a little more thinking about the system in this area. It may not be necessary to impose conditions on the support of a summer meal. As I said before, international surveys do not take into account a lot of things. When, let's say, they look at how deprivation poverty is developing in Hungary and look at, for example, the per capita income, they do not take into account that yes, but in Hungary, that is the truth, every child in need eats free of charge. If we counted this amount of HUF 10,000 per child for a large family, to which a family budget is calculated in many other countries, then the situation would already be much, much better. It has been said that the situation continues to deteriorate. The Commission also explained how the situation of child poverty in Hungary deteriorated in 2014. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not fully aware of the processes. Do you really think that in 2014 child poverty could have deepened, increased, when we extended the amount of tax relief that could be used for contributions? If you think about this, it is certain that a significant number of families had to reduce child poverty. It couldn't have happened. The truth is, without a doubt, Bernadett Wind is right, for example, that after the crisis, poverty did not deepen at a given moment of crisis, but for quite some time afterwards. For example, foreign exchange taxpayers, who were typically family members, wore the burden of increasing their repayments, but the truth is that from 2014 onwards, this is clearly demonstrated by data from Tarki, KSH and Eurostat, the situation has started to improve. I think that the 2015 figures, which typically even detect the 2014 process, will indicate further improvements. So I think that the situation in the case of child poverty is not good, there is an enormous amount of work to be done, but I do not think it can be taken away that, in order to reduce child poverty, the government has already made a great deal of progress. A lot has happened with regard to the reduction of hunger for children, because if we planned for this purpose in 2010, 40 billion forints in 2013, and now this amount has increased to 60 billion forints. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The appropriation is only!]] Then it's a pretty serious development compared to the past period. The fact is, if we know some of the leaks in the next year's budget, we know that there will be further steps to be taken here, for example in the case of two children, and this is a significant part of the current law. I would like to ask my fellow Members, opposition and pro-government representatives, that when we look at statistical data, we try to make these statistics available to the public in sufficient depth and in a proper manner. I think that in Hungary we can be proud to say that we have done a great deal in the European Union's comparison of meals so that children from kindergarten and school do not starve. We are taking another very important step here. We hope that further steps will follow with regard to breaks. In this case, I can say that a very important, very painful component of child poverty, child hunger, if we manage to take these steps, has been resolved. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-29-62	Thank you, Congressman Márius Révész. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked for the floor in 15 minutes, MSZP.
u2015-04-29-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I am shocked to hear the words of Máriusz Révész when he says that the Hungarian public catering system is generous. What do you mean, generous? The fact that we feed our children, and we provide it with public money in the name of mass catering? ! Is that generous to you? ! Well, what's the budget supposed to do with the tax collected if it's not? And it's not a matter of generosity to feed the children or not feed them! You misinterpret the kindergarten system when you tell me what kindergarten care the kids get. No breakfast in kindergarten, Your Honour. It's brunch, lunch and lunch. No breakfast. [[Márius Révész: I took my child this morning! You're talking nonsense. Dr. Répássy Róbert: They'll give you your lunch at 9:00. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Your kid may be in a special kindergarten, but the average kindergarten is brunch, lunch and lunch, not breakfast. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You've been to kindergarten a long time! Márius Révész: We live in a different country!]]
u2015-04-29-64	Congressman Révész!
u2015-04-29-65	I'm sure we live in a different country, and my kids haven't been around in a while. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Says my fellow Members, you know, your brunch is being handed out in the morning, because the kids can't start anything normally until then. They bring up his brunch, and they call it breakfast. That's what he says about painting a dramatic situation. I don't know what's dramatic for you, we don't, maybe our sensitivity threshold is much lower than yours. I told you that the acceptable number for me would be zero. He talked about billions in the budget, that in 2010, there were 28 billion in appropriations for children's meals as support, while in 2014 there were 52 billion 639 million. Only, honourable Member, you forget to tell the others that in September 20 billion forints of this amount were transferred to the operation of the KLIK, the very well-functioning KLIK, of this amount, and 2.6 billion forints remained in December, which was distributed among the Fidesz municipalities to support local government operations. So, this HUF 52 billion was reduced to approximately HUF 30 billion, because it was just an estimate. So you may be right, Congressman, to interpret and interpret the numbers. He keeps talking about painting the picture dramaticly. I also said yesterday about amending the budget that we are constantly asking for data on written questions. I will read the data we receive in response. According to the data, 100 percent of the children in the nursery eat. However, 16 percent of children of nursery age go to daycare in Hungary. In kindergarten, 98 percent of children eat, only 77 percent in school, 32 percent in high school, and 10 percent in different vocational schools eat for children. [[12.40]] I told you yesterday that it is worth my appreciation that we are thinking about children of kindergarten and kindergarten age, but children do not stop there to spend 14 years or, say, to get away from kindergarten; the 14-year-old child is a child, and the 15-year-old child is a child, and the 18-year-old child is also a child. I'd like to give you more data here. 29.59 percent of children who go to daycare receive some kind of discount - also sent by the Ministry - 45.53 percent of children who eat in kindergarten receive a meal, including on the basis of the three children's and the need; 60.31 percent of children in primary school receive some kind of discount, 43.99 percent in high school, 45.19 percent in vocational school, 65 percent of vocational school, and 73% of those who eat receive some kind of support. I think I'm just gonna point out again that the kid doesn't stop at six, ten years old, 14 years old. Back to kindergarten, Congressman. I don't know if you remember when the soap tax on cleaning products was introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government, I said at the time in the debate - which I didn't like very much to Mr Tállai, because I even put out here the price of the products, what is expected to happen - that these are not just the burdens that parents have to bear in kindergarten. I'm just gonna talk about kindergarten. Parents are taking her home to wash her bed. Parents take the detergent into kindergarten: soap, disinfectant, toilet paper, because the state doesn't provide it. I'll tell you something better than that. The parent brings the fruit to the child who can. This was the case when I brought him to kindergarten, because he did not receive sufficient nutrients for the budgetary resources that the state has so to say generously provided for children. They make up for a lot of things, I might add, parents who can do it financially. And don't talk about being generous here, because if you divide these amounts back into what you're going to get for a child, so to speak, as a catering allowance, it comes out to some 400 forints a day! Is that generous to you? He's not generous. The government's duty to pay the tax is to ensure this generosity, and it should do much more than that! You really don't want to be dramatic. Now I'd like to read you two sentences of a four-year-old. I am a mother, and I read these things about how children manifest themselves on certain topics; they asked children about love, and a four - year - old boy said that about love. The little boy lived next door to a recently widowed old man. Once, as the little boy saw the tearing old man, he walked into the garden, hid himself in the old man's lap, and sat silently. Later, when his mother asked the little boy what he was really doing there, the little boy replied: "Nothing. I was just helping her cry. You know, that's what we're supposed to do. Helping people in need and noticing their problems. I can only recommend to you and Members of Parliament that you talk to these children sometimes, that you can say very clever things to us adults, very, very intelligent things. Listen to them and listen to their words. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-04-29-67	Thank you so much for the lesson. Dear Congresswoman, I have four children, small ones. The truth is, I don't know if there's any point in arguing with you if you have to argue about getting breakfast in kindergarten or not. So this is a relatively simple question. But by the way, the rest of your comment made about as much sense as this. [[Dr. István Józsa: What do they get from 400 forints all day? The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, I can't help it if you're dealing with textual problems. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is rubbish!]] I'm sorry if I'm saying that if you're doing international comparisons... [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We're used to...! Dr. István Józsa: Mr. President! This is bullshit! The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Not everyone has to participate in the debate.]] If the Hungarian system is considered to be generous in international comparison, because in many countries, there is not only no support, but there is no catering at all in the educational institution system. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But we do not live there, but here!]] I didn't say that we were generous and we weren't, but I said that we could be proud of the system that we operate in Hungary, because we are trying to do a lot to keep no children from starving in Hungary. He told me what's going on from kindergarten to vocational school to vocational school. The fact is that all children who are in need in Hungary, because they are poor, these children in Hungary during the week, if they go to school, will receive a free meal. We can be proud of this system, which is not a system in many countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-29-68	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-04-29-69	Thank you. I don't want to go into this religious debate, but one part of this question is about credibility. I was just outside, and surfing on the Internet, I looked up six kindergartens in my own constituency - I didn't know all of them - which doesn't dispute that my fellow Member Révész experiences something else in Kőbány, but for example, here in Obuda, it is the case that municipal kindergartens give three meals: brunch, lunch and lunch. It could be different somewhere else. This only points to the fact that this question is swept away by the fact that children do not starve, because where they do not receive breakfast, they certainly do not get it in kindergarten, because there are kindergartens where they do, and there are kindergartens where they do not. But in this regard, while we are talking about free meals with public and quotation marks, let me share my experience at an inn hour on this, and I apologize for including this in the debate, but it may be interesting to see how much you can solve this problem. The parent complained that virtually most children received such poor quality food that they had withdrawn from this option, and he himself could not do anything, because his quality problems were not listened to by the head of the institution or the company, but at the same time, as he himself is part of the supported circle, he simply cannot afford not to use this meal. Therefore, it would be important to state that in the event that we really believe - I do not believe in it, but if you do believe in it - that the existing institutional system is otherwise capable of combating child poverty and child hunger, it would not hurt to check the institutional system that the children actually receive those things. Let me just point out that you are constantly talking about how the education government is talking about making institutional menus healthier, and that you are talking more about it, and the legislation is not very much in place in this matter, nor has it been implemented. Less talk and more reality!
u2015-04-29-70	Thank you, Congressman. Two minutes from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2015-04-29-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Révész, On the one hand, he addressed me so many times in his speech that I must have been sensitive to the facts that I gave to the Parliament and the Hungarian citizens about how we think about the government's policy on child poverty. So I know we've touched your life, because you're ashamed of the things that have happened in recent years. I think there really is a time for us to move forward a little bit. I have repeatedly said this to the Secretary of State, who, I hope, will not only react at the end of the debate, but also at the same time, because there is obviously enough ember debate going on here. But there's one thing you need to see, Congressman. On the one hand, I find it very unfortunate that the Members of Parliament, so to speak, did what you did to set an example with your own child. I think that very few children live in Hungary under these conditions, and here our typical task is to deal with the country and not with the children of the Member. I think there are rules that need to be followed in kindergartens, and I think that's what we need to talk about. There is a budget that needs to sacrifice to reduce child poverty and child hunger, and that is what we need to talk about. Yeah, I know what the head quota is, they raised it from 68,000 to 102,000, that's what you asked me. But why? Because the councils were bled out in the process. They cut their budget, their margins, a lot of things. They took away the opportunities from the municipalities to make up for the very low state normative that they had until then. The municipalities would not have been able to do this, so you were forced to give, raise the norm, quite simply so that a human disaster would not occur in this country. But that does not mean that the level of child food or access has increased. I think it's a conservative estimate if I say it's kept to a level. What about the social summer children's meal? A very similar story took place, and the Ombudsman drew attention to the need to change the tendering system. [[12.50]] Not me, opposition representative, who you think I am dramatizing, but the Ombudsman himself told me to change, because it doesn't have to be, I think too much capacity to feel, if we see that if poverty grows in the country and there is a decrease in the number of participants, then there is something wrong with the signs.
u2015-04-29-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next two-minute comment is Mr László Szászfalvi, KDNP.
u2015-04-29-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that, when my fellow Member Bangóné interprets the word "Márius Révész" in his speech, he took it in the wrong direction, in a very subtle and flowering way, because my fellow Member Márius Révész said something like this, so in a European comparison he said that the Hungarian system is generous. And that's factual. So I think it's not interpretation, it's listening well. Given that we are no longer talking about the proposal and we have been debating it for a long time, since everyone is in favour of the proposal, if I have heard and understood it correctly, then allow me to add another dimension to this issue, it is true that we should probably also look at the effectiveness of this children's food system. Let us think about this in the direction that I had almost 20 years of experience as mayor that many children did not eat the food. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's how you cook!]] Now you can talk about the quality of food or the quality of food. I'm talking about a long series of government periods. There was a constant complaint from the school's catering system, from the kitchen staff and kitchen managers, that an awful amount of food would be returned to the children and thrown away. I ask my fellow Members why we have not talked about this for many years. Why don't we bring this to the House table? Do they really get the food? Mr László Kiss asked the question. I think the children will get the food, so it would be nice to pay attention to that for a little while. Then perhaps we should speak frankly about it - but I will continue this in the next two minutes - whose responsibility it is. Is it only the responsibility of the state and the government? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs in 15 minutes, MSZP.
u2015-04-29-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The whole situation could be described in one word: calm down. In addition to the fact that the MSZP will support this proposal, I would like to make a few points on the matter myself. One is that I think everyone agrees that the XXI. You can't be a starving child in Europe of the century and Hungary. To this I would like to say a few sociological facts which, I think, will contribute to the common discourse that I think can only be the beginning of solving and dealing with this problem. Mrs Bernadett Szél pointed out that she also hoped that this was just the start, since a strategy was adopted here, I understand, which will run until 2020 to deal with these issues in connection with catching up. This was born in 2011, if I remember correctly, but it was almost four years after that, and it would have been a matter for the government, but I also acknowledge the activities concerning the provision of financial resources that were trying to provide summer meals to children in need. I would like to add a little bit to the issue raised by my fellow Member of Szászfalvi that, if we start this discussion now, it would be worth continuing later on from a different point of view: is the institutional system suitable for providing all children with this kind of support who needed it, whether the quality of food is suitable for the children to eat this food? Now here is the point of extending healthy nutrition to bring these matters here, to the Parliament, and let us talk about this in substance. Congressman Sándor Kovács said, and I agree with him that there is food on the table when there is food on the table. I think that's how the congressman put it. That's what I'm talking about. This is the case, since this measure would not be necessary if a large majority of society had the income that they could manage to provide their children with high-quality food, food for their age, and nutrients for their age. We have expressed our concern, and I also confirm that we hope that the government will play its part in this and not put it on the municipal authorities to finance it, because we see that a large part of the municipalities are bleeding out, and not just for this, but for many others they do not have enough resources. I could refer to the conversion of cash benefits after 1 March. What do we know about child poverty? Quite a lot. I just think that, in many ways, we no longer need descriptive sociology, but we need action. We know for a fact that the relative poverty rate of children is higher than that of other age groups in the population. This has been the case in the past, but it should be pointed out that, as a result of government measures, these rates have, however, increased considerably in recent years. We also know that a significant percentage of children belong to the worst income groups in the population. We also know that the greatest risk of poverty is for small children, infants - 0-2 years of age - and children in families with multiple children, families with 3 or more children, and single - parent families. Then we should also take measures in the direction of poverty here, in these groups, i.e. the 0-2 year group, families with 3 or more children, where the parent is forced to raise his child alone, in order to alleviate the situation of these families as a result of social policy measures. If we look at the trends in Europe, what I see at least is that the number of people with child poverty rates in European countries where the national total product, at least 10% of GDP, is spent on social expenditure to reduce child poverty. If we make this our own, then I think - and government measures are being taken - that children's poverty in Hungary will be significantly reduced and the number of starving children will decrease radically. We also know, and this is also a sociological fact, that there is a significantly higher poverty rate among Roma children than among non-Roma children. Then we have this catch-up strategy to enforce the paragraphs that have been adopted here and to reduce child poverty in this social segment. The situation of children living in income poverty cannot be explored on the basis of the data of households who are raising them. This is because child poverty, as in general poverty, is a multidimensional phenomenon. The accumulation of various dimensions of poverty is associated with the risk of healthy psychosocial development of children. Therefore, it cannot be explained only by the fact that this is the rate of poverty in Hungary, and it cannot be explained only by the fact that this is the rate of poverty in such small regions or districts or microregions, because there are many different dimensions to be taken into account when talking about the poverty of children. By the way, when the strategy was adopted, it was next to it, I remember a sociological conference that highlighted this, and the rapid reports published and published every two years by the Anti-poverty Network clearly highlighted the need to address child poverty in a large number of directions. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It should also be noted that child poverty also contains content other than adult poverty. The child, we know, can't help what kind of family he is raised in, and the process of social exclusion begins in childhood. I think it's one of those facts that should be dealt with here. And many times we have pointed out ourselves that the causes of adult exclusion and adult poverty go back to childhood. So if you are born into such a family, it is likely that if there are no effective social and government measures, then these povertyes will be passed on and the cycle of inheritance must be prevented by government measures. [[13.00]] I also think it is a fact that raising the income available to families, employment-related subsidies, social transfers are insufficient to address poverty and child poverty. In addition to our disapproval that social transfers, whether linked to universal benefits or to the social situation of the family, have not been raised since 2010, we do say that if there is a social consensus that, for example, in the case of universal benefits, family allowances, guaranteed to all children, we must say that in the last five years nearly 30% of their value has been lost. I know there's a government answer to that, that they're trying to recompensate with the family tax discount. I would only warn you that last year you started to extend the tax relief for children for example to families with lower incomes who have not been able to enforce or fully enforce these opportunities for years. A policy focusing on prevention and child welfare must be pursued, I believe. We see that only financial transfers, only by extending family support, cannot remedy every single situation of child poverty. In conclusion, I believe that this problem should be examined in its complexity and that effective government measures should be taken to this end. We are sure that we will continue to be partners in this, but to do so, we need to submit proposals to Parliament that are suitable for carrying out such a discourse. I wish to emphasise once again that we will support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-29-76	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2015-04-29-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to continue my thoughts just now and to add a few points to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Korózs. I have suggested that it is also genuinely worthwhile and that we should talk about how the issue of responsibility is shared. Joining my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Korózs, it is clear and clear that financial measures are the only way to stop child hunger and child poverty. It is also clear and clear, I think, for all of us, that only by means of government, legislative, institutional or reform alone can these problems not be dealt with. It is quite clear that everyone in their area must take responsibility for this. Let us clarify who is responsible for this, and we must also honestly ask whether parents have individual responsibilities, for example, with regard to their children. I suppose we all believe that there is an individual responsibility, but there is an individual responsibility not only for our own lives, but also for our children and our families. So I do not want to smear the issue of responsibility, but I would just like to state - perhaps also in agreement with my colleague Mr Korózs - that many people here, everyone, have a responsibility on this issue. I would like to make another very short signal to my colleague Bangón. He talked about how the child is the child everywhere and always. I would like to remind you that during the period of socialist governments, the child was the child. I suppose you were equally vehemently, equally bloody, just as strongly beating the table during the Socialist governments period, during the Horn government period, and in the period 2002-2010. I suppose, when my fellow Member Korózs was a State Secretary, he was beaten like this, that this issue must be resolved, because the child was still the child, and it should have been broadened in terms of children's hunger, and it has not happened. I think we need to look at ourselves quietly, and we all have to look at ourselves, I think, rather than pointing to the other side or the other side of this issue. My colleague Mr Bernadett Szél has repeatedly said that we should be ashamed of ourselves. I ask you, my dear fellow Member, do we have to be ashamed of the introduction of the family tax system, because of the tax relief for children? Should we be ashamed of trying to give people jobs instead of aid? Should we be ashamed that the Houses of the Commissioner, which started only until the framework of the tender programme, have the Orbán government undertaken to operate them further? I'm talking about a safe place to start. This year, we will launch 50 new programs such as this. Should we be ashamed of the cost reduction that affected the poorest families? Should we be ashamed? Should we be ashamed of the launch of Elizabeth's programmes, dear congresswoman? Should we be ashamed of the free textbook program? Well, I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of or ashamed of. So it is not now that this programme is starting, but we have been trying to do what we have been trying to do for years, within a possible budget framework, but I agree that in its complexity we need to look at the solution and resolution of this big, big challenge. So many programmes must be operated effectively and intensively side by side in order to achieve our goals, and we must face these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-78	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter for two minutes.
u2015-04-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, has shown himself again, he regularly plays this part in the debates. You can see that when you run out of arguments on a subject, then comes the personalization that I would like to refuse here. [[Márius Révész: Tell me what I said!]] And I would ask you to follow my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. There was no reason for you to be so personal. Unless that's what I just told you, we're out of arguments. This usually runs out of Fidesz KDNP benches in the first rejoinder, and we're getting used to it. The argument that there is no catering in several countries, and that the Hungarian system is generous in comparison, cannot be an argument or an aspect. If you would like to mention countries in Europe where the standard of living, the level of wages, by the way, does allow parents to ensure this, and there is no need for such public engagement, it is a completely different situation. Hungary is unfortunately very, very absent from this. With this policy they are pursuing, otherwise this situation will only deteriorate further. And the question of how much children eat food or not is mentioned here among other things in the institutional system. But the fact is, unfortunately, that today's experience is that some children don't even meet certain foods, so they don't eat them, because they've never seen them in their lives, they've seen a maximum of potato noodles, they've seen a maximum of fat bread or French toast or even that. On the other hand, with regard to the institutional system, perhaps it should also be sought to provide adequate resources to the institutional system itself, the control system, and perhaps - and think about this - government dogs should also be eradicated from the public catering system.
u2015-04-29-80	I now give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész in two minutes.
u2015-04-29-81	Thank you very much. I wonder what I was personal about. Not that I know of. What I can see is that Bangón didn't understand or don't want to understand [[Márta Demeter: Apologize!]] What I said. [[Dr. István Józsa: You are an asshole now!]] I have made it quite clear: in international comparison, the Hungarian system is considered to be generous. Unfortunately, it seems that my colleague, Mária Demeter, [[Marta Demeter: Martha!]] You didn't listen to what I said because I gave you one example, Romania, which I don't think you think you're light years ahead of us. For example, in Romania, there is no general catering in kindergartens, and there is not at all in schools. If you think that in Romania, let's say, the standard of living is light years ahead of Hungary, then I would be happy to invite you on a tour of Romania to look around. [[13.10]] Dear fellow Member, We're gonna have a big debate about a law that everyone's behind. And I would point out to my fellow Members that it is worth treating statistics in a meaningful way, understanding what is in it. So, for example, if the child does not eat in the morning before marching to kindergarten, for example, it does not mean that the child is starving in Hungary - against another country where there is no catering - in Hungary. In Hungary, every needy child from high school to kindergarten, who has gone to school, kindergarten, will receive meals, if he is poor, the state will pay for it. From now on, I think, because in a lot of other countries, this system doesn't work, no matter what they say, we can be proud of it. You are making all kinds of arguments, false arguments, which are not arguments, in order to make this positive process, which we would like to extend further, appear in some way in the wrong light. I think that the system that has been built in Hungary - not just under this government - should be proud of that system in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-82	I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind in two minutes.
u2015-04-29-83	My fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, I think it is time to stop saying that you think that children eat breakfast in certain kindergartens, and therefore these children are not starving, because there are kindergartens where children do not eat in the morning, for example, there is no breakfast; there is no breakfast, or there is no breakfast. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: No way.]] Don't hold on to this, I'm asking you to talk about the government's professional performance in relation to child welfare and child hunger or child poverty. By the way, it was this government that transferred 182 million forints to top athletes from the social child protection and child welfare budget line. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They will deny it!]] So that's why there are such little things - little things in quotes - that we shouldn't forget. Not to mention that this reduction in the rent that our fellow Member from Szászfalvi has offered us here is not a universal remedy, if you tell people this is not a reality and we forget what this country has been worth in the last five years. For example, 2.2 million people continue to earn a minimum living in this country. Our fellow Member asked what was on the Fidesz criminal record, including this. You know, if these people didn't make that much money, children would have not only breakfast, lunch, dinner, but also shoes and medicine, and everything else that a child needs to develop. However, they should not be too proud - these are today's employment figures - that Hungarians appear to be increasing outside this country, and their work abroad, more than domestic ones. But it also seems that Hungary is one of its biggest problems, and I think that it affects childbearing as much as child poverty, that a significant part of the workplace is not stable, predictable, and that it is impossible to make a living. So if we measure and look at the performance of Fidesz in a comprehensive way, these are also included in the scene, and this is now perceived by voters. And I'm sorry, this Hungarian Parliament, we do politics here, and when a bill is tabled, there are a lot of circumstances that need to be enforced in its complexity in order to discuss a phenomenon.
u2015-04-29-84	I would like to tell my colleague, László Kiss, that a two-minute comment is only possible once per faction, but there is still a normal comment. [[For signal:]] Then it's up to you.
u2015-04-29-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to take advantage of time, just let me respond to a few things, let me. One of the questions is that I feel that, although the PISA surveys show very bad results in this regard, that both text understanding and mathematical competences have deteriorated on the basis of the final result, I do not believe that we should be pushing such problems in this House with our fellow Members, I do not consider this polite. Especially not as a man. Of course, I suppose there may be another threshold for people, so I'm not naive, I know there are polite people and rude people; I think polite people are polite, and rude people are rude. The other part of this question is when the text has already come out. There was an interesting conversation on one of the radios, where there was a conversation with the researcher who was the editor of the Tarki research you referred to in the debate, who, by the way, said that he was very interested in the government's communication on Tarki's research, and that his interest in public opinion polls was particularly increased because of the fact that the government's communication did not follow. For example, Tarki's research revealed that the difference between upper and lower decylis, i.e. that the difference between the richest and the poorest has never been the same in recent years. However, what follows from this is what my colleague Korózs said that the poverty figures of the lower decylis are disappointing, and it is therefore a pity that anyone here in Parliament is speaking about this, I think, let us say, not; it is a good thing that this topic is on the table. Indeed, poverty, child poverty is a complete problem, and so is child hunger. As a former municipal representative, I consider it a practical problem, and now as an individual Member of Parliament, what happens to the institutions where the state and/or the municipality pays for the children to eat, and I find it a practical problem, by the way, that it has been revealed here that they have virtually no idea what the situation is here. I think it is a practical problem that when we talk about the need for children to feed healthy, I have to put two written questions and two immediate questions to the ministry in order to finally understand - and I apologize for my strong wording, but it is the case - that in more schools, for example, they do not comply with the regulations and laws that the government has made on this issue. And really, about four or five speeches and parliamentary activities must achieve the removal of an automatic from a primary school - here is the XVI. I am talking specifically about the Batthyány Elementary School - which, by the way, violates all regulations and violates all laws, and what is the principle of the government, by the way, is that it repeats the law, which is violated by the institution or the CLIK, which permits it. Now, when we talk about the need to implement these laws in practice; when we talk about the need not to talk about the text about healthy food, that it is not a solution for children to give them inedible food, it is indeed, I think, an important issue. The problem of child poverty and child hunger is not solved if otherwise this activity is carried out by suppliers that, let us say, give children uncontrolled quality food. And this is not only a problem in Hungary, it is a problem in many places, almost anywhere in the world where systems are operated in this way, it is a problem, because very often food distribution companies view publicity and food intended for schools as a secondary market, and indeed, if the government does not look at their nails, we cannot see any progress in this matter. I am very pleased that many of you have agreed - also my fellow Member of Szászfalvi - that we need to see clearly in this matter, but then the question arises - and for that, please give us an answer - when we will see clearly on this issue, when we will have a report on the mass catering that answers these questions, because I think we would also like to read this. As it could be said, where are the integrated programmes that combat child poverty? What is certain is that, now that we have this proposal before us, we can see that I think we have taken a good step in the right direction, and that the government has also taken a good step in the right direction. However, allow me - and I apologize for this approach - to not be able to see the salesias and the III. a place reserved by district government, where 150 children come in every day to have breakfast. I can't not see it. And now the III. We are talking about a district, so we are not talking about what is happening in a disadvantaged region, we are talking about a metropolitan district. I can't not see this place. Honestly, I don't even care when these problems started, and whose fault is that? The children who are starving are not alive when they were the ages you call back and point back. It does not mean that there is no responsibility for anyone but you in this matter, and that there should be no misunderstanding, but it does mean that pointing back to the problems of the present is in no way a solution. I do not think that no one should be involved in this, I think that, yes, it is the responsibility of everyone who has governed this country. But I'm gonna ask you back, you don't really think anyone wants to solve this case, do you? If I don't assume that you don't want to deal with this problem, then please don't assume from the other side that yes, any government that was before that has created such situations on purpose. No. [[13.20]] That is why we should look to the future, to deal with the conclusions that can be drawn from the mistakes that you, the socialist government, the former Fidesz government, the previous socialist government or the previous MDF government have made. By the way, I think that if you are making similar mistakes or even more serious mistakes in your governance than what the Socialist Government has done, not a mitigating circumstance for these mistakes, I would like to say, but an aggravating circumstance. There's a Hungarian saying, but I'd rather quote a Chinese one. The Chinese saying is that no river or river can be stepped twice; the Hungarian saying is a little more plastic, which I would like to bring here less now. That is why I would like to draw attention to the fact that you do not do so. If you identify any errors that you have failed to identify during these five years for some mysterious reason, don't repeat them. If you see that there has been insufficient action on child hunger for eight years, then do not make these mistakes, make better laws. Do not check the task by saying at a press conference that it is necessary to fight for children to receive healthy food in the institutions and then do nothing to make it so, because it is obviously easy to write out a system, but no one can think of checking it. Let us not think that demagogy is to talk about when we see hungry children, because I know that there are municipalities where there are very well-equipped municipalities, and they have arranged for the child to get breakfast; where kindergarten educators can solve it - I am a teacher, I know my colleagues, I know that they are victim-made, decent people - that if the child comes in hungry, even when he doesn't have it, because it's only 10:00 because we know that where there are ten buns, there may be twelve. I do not dispute this, but let us not think that this is the way it works everywhere in this country. Let us not think that there are no areas where this has not been solved. Don't think that. Let's not think child hunger is a problem. I understand that this can be rationalized, you can be happy that there are now three hundred fewer children starving, and I am happy with each of these results. Believe me, I'm very happy for you. But let's not think that as long as there's a hungry child, we're good at our job. Not you, not us, no one's doing your job right. Not to mention - and I ask you to accept this too - that the child who is starving and the parent who is unemployed, these people who live in despair, are genuinely uninterested about who this problem is now to be identified to. That's not what we're talking about. We need to talk about how this situation will be resolved. That's why I'm asking you to support everything that's going on here. Believe me, as a Member of Parliament, I am sure that I will support you in the honest activity that is taking place against child hunger and child poverty, but also allow me to think that there are some considerations that nuance these images, and that we will bring them here to you. I don't think it's wasted ten minutes, half an hour, an hour, I think everyone's got two or three hours to listen to this, worst case scenario, we've said something that didn't have any effect, but best case scenario, some people thought about it, and this process went in a better direction. I hope that's what's happening. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-29-86	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment. [[On the sign of Charles Czibere:]] I give you the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-29-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for the proposals and opinions they have put forward, from which it is clear that the government is on the right track when choosing the instrument to seek further support for disadvantaged families and children through the broadening and development of children's meals. I would like to thank you for your support, for your agreement, and we also believe that the child is indeed the key to the future, and we also believe that, like many other national issues, this should be a matter of political superiority. This consensus, this support, I think it also reflects this. I would like to make a few points on the specific issues. One of them referred to it, several said that something had begun. I think this thing started when the government created a catch-up strategy in 2011. Several people here have indicated that nothing has happened since then. I think that both Mr Sándor Kovács and Mr László Szászfalvi and Mr Márius Révész have presented in detail the measures that the government has taken since 2011 - and I am not going to list them for this reason. If someone looks at the catch-up strategy and its action plan, it concerns the 61 intervention areas and the complexity and the overall approach that many have commented on. So, on the one hand, the institutional system, on the other hand, health, housing on the third side, the development of social and child welfare services, so all sectoral policy areas that can be used as an effective policy tool to support and help families caring for the child in need. After this is a comprehensive cross-sectoral strategy, a monitoring system is, of course, complemented by a reporting and monitoring system, so the government, with the involvement of the social partners, continuously evaluates the objectives of the catch-up strategy and, in particular, the effectiveness of these 61 measures. This is the guiding thread, which is basically based on the principles that I outlined in the expozee, namely: the basic focus of catching up is to help families caring for disadvantaged children, and basically not only by means of monetary means but also by benefits in kind, and must be complemented by service elements in all cases. Several people asked whether the institutional system was capable of targeting these aids and these forms of support, whether it was sufficiently targeted or controlled. The answer is that, yes, its monitoring is ongoing, because all educational services, public education services, child welfare services, child protection services and social services are being checked in Hungary today, whether they really meet the minimum requirements laid down by law and whether the services are provided at the quality required by the legislation. So we think that thus the delivery of these forms of assistance through the service system is essentially a targeted approach, so in the future, the basic objective in the government's catch-up policy is essentially to guarantee, guarantee, guarantee, and provide additional support available everywhere - both in its quality and in its price - in a way that restricts or mitigates the right quality and territorial imbalances. So to sum up, we believe that both daycare services and kindergarten services are basically suitable for the delivery of additional tools and support tools for catching up policy. The next question was what burden it would impose on municipalities. Here a number of people mentioned an increase in previous normative financing. Let me tell you another important element. This is that not only the scale of the norm has changed significantly in recent years, but also the method of financing, namely: normative financing - which is the municipality's own income, so theoretically it can be spent on something else - has been replaced by a very strictly controlled wage support and operating support component, which has been verified on the cost side since 2013 and from 2014, which gives us the opportunity to analyse at the level of the account, itemisingly, cost-based analysis of what it is for, and in fact, to use this support to which we provide for the feeding of children. [[13.30]] The amendment of the financing system alone is enough to guarantee that the municipalities are covered and financed in a larger proportion of the costs than before. Of course, the fact that it is necessary to take into account the power of taxation must also be the same here. Compared to the differentiation rules applied to the aid scheme, the band system currently applicable is even more circumscribed, the essence of which is that each municipality receives at least half of the operating aid. There are 136 settlements in Hungary that receive only this amount. And more than that, there are 1155 municipalities where local resources are extremely limited, tax capacity is extremely low, and they receive 100% of the cost of these children's meals. So we are trying to develop an even more detailed funding structure, system and procedure that takes into account tax power in more detail. Obviously, I have to respond to the numbers, as many people have formulated data on child hunger and child poverty, and I think that the basic principle is that a starving child is a lot, a child in need is a lot, and a poor child is a lot, and I think that there is a real agreement in this - I think all the parties who have argued - that there is. In terms of specific figures, I think it is important to show that industry management is constantly trying to monitor statistics, research results and is really trying to build data on policy and thus look at the latest data. We basically, in a decisive case, consider the numbers of the KSH as a guide. Several people have mentioned Tarki's analysis; we do not consider the Gallup survey to be a measure, so an analysis that, say, keeps hunger equivalent to Venezuelan or Mexican levels, we think it is unfounded; but we consider the KSH and Tarki to be professionally and methodologically sound. The Tarki came out two or three weeks ago with its numbers, the household monitor report, and let me say at least three figures, stressing once again that a poor child is a lot, and we also agree that there is a lot to do in terms of both services and benefits in kind. These three figures are, on the one hand, the income poverty rate of people under the age of 17, which was 26 per cent in 12 and 22 per cent in Autumn 2014. The other data is not the extent, the volume, the extent, but the depth of the poverty of people under the age of 17, so in Hungarian the intensity of how deep they are below the measured poverty threshold. Here it was 28 percent in 2012 and 22 percent in 2014. Thus, the measurement of Tarki showed that income poverty and depth also decreased for people under 17 years of age. Here is also the question of the fact that, in terms of income equality, the Tarki claims otherwise than the government. In the Tarki report, it is stated that the so-called S10/S1 indicator, which represents the ratio of the average income of the highest and lowest income decylis, has decreased from 9 in 2012 to 8.1 in 2014; and the Gini indicator, which deals with this from the other side, also shows the same decrease as that measured by the HCSO in April 2014. This was therefore the poverty figure. On the other hand, regarding hunger, I think that only statistically, methodologically relevant research has been carried out in recent years that has delivered or produced reliable data on hunger, and this is the research of MTA, the Academy, which defined the number of young people who meet this phenomenon as 2-3 percent of those under 17 years of age, which is between 40 and 50 thousand. The question arose about how to proceed, what about holidays. We basically believe that in recent years there have been a lot of steps, since the summer food programme has increased from HUF 2.4 billion to HUF 3 billion this year, and this affects not only the amount, the number of enlargements, but also the number of days, and also the fact that in other respects we are trying to make this programme attractive to local authorities. So every year, in recent years, the number of municipalities who join in has increased by 100 to 120. This year, we sent a special circular to the municipalities to draw attention to the possibility that a mayor might not know about it, know not, report or report; so we would like to make a very strong campaign in order for as many municipalities as possible to apply. As many local governments as there is a need, we will satisfy them. Nevertheless, we can see that the child cannot be exposed to the mayor's filling out the form or not. We are doing calculations - and my statement yesterday also referred to this - on how to make holiday meals normative, since we believe that both legal infrastructure, background and financial conditions are basically given, and we see the possibility of extending holiday meals, either through the expansion of social catering or in other forms. Once the infrastructure conditions are in place, we have prepared and put a concept on the government's table that allows you to expand and make holiday meals normative in this direction. Since concrete calculations and details are being developed, I would not say more at present, but this is the direction. The further extension of the programme. Now we are doing the calculations of extending the inter-annual programme to high school in these very weeks, so obviously we would like to put it on the government's table, how to move forward in the coming years in order to involve more and more children in the programme. Feeding is a poor matter of quality and quality. I have to say, as I said at the beginning, we're basically thinking about quality. So we find it unacceptable that, somewhere simply extending this programme means that food and food quality will become poorer, we are essentially interested in providing quality food to children. That's what the check I mentioned is about. It can't be that someone wins a delivery, and then suddenly the food improves, and then the quality reduction or deterioration begins. All such cases must be investigated. Basically, the expansion of catering should not in any way and in any sense be associated with deterioration in quality. We think that the food package planned for the coming years, this particular RSZTOP, which will provide for further food and other articles for people under the age of three in a budget of between 34 and 35 billion, is an important issue, since it is important that the age group that we are talking about now only a part of those under the age of three goes to the nursery, that there is also the need for help to those who do not go to the nursery, and that the service element is important here too. Mr Szászfalvi has repeatedly mentioned the further 50 percent improvement of the Houses of the Commissioner, which is also the aim of providing additional attention and resources in disadvantaged areas. Children need to be developed, and this requires extra attention for these families and help, not only in development, service, but also in food. [[13.40]] So we want to move forward in this direction, too. Another example of the inclusion of the service environment is the proposal for early childhood intervention that you have discussed recently and are well-known to you. This again serves to transform, in addition to benefits in cash and in kind, the service environment, which surrounds families, so that there is a continuous cooperation between professionals who come into contact with the family, educator, doctor, pediatrician, pediatrician [[Dr. István Józsa: Cook. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] , patroness or others. It will be integrated into this, and in this logic we would like to include the strengthening of child welfare services. After all, more people here have asked about further steps and plans, basically the coordination of the early intervention institution system and inter-professional cooperation, i.e. inter-sectoral cooperation, strengthening local cooperation, and strengthening the child welfare signalling system, which can provide an additional opportunity to keep families away from information and know exactly what type and extent of assistance and support they can expect from either the local government or the government or anyone else. I think I've tried to answer most of the questions. I'm sorry if I didn't touch something. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for your comments; I would also like to thank you for your support from all the speakers. Indeed, we believe that it is our common concern, that all disadvantaged families and children raised in it should not be left alone in Hungary today with their problems, and should not be left alone with their difficulties, and should not be left alone with these problems. I think that this proposal by the government, which is on the table, is basically making very important progress in this direction; it is in the direction of making an additional investment in our common future, and this is our future together as a child. Thank you again. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-88	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. It follows now that CLXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4449. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-04-29-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to adapt the area of jurisdiction of district courts to the area of jurisdiction of the district, with a few exceptions. Allow me to present the reasons for the need for regulation. 1299/2011 on the establishment of walks. Point 4 of Government Resolution No 4 called on the ministers concerned to examine, on the basis of the needs of a single State organisation, whether the area of competence of the public administration bodies under their control can be adapted to the districts and to inform the Minister responsible for the organisation of the administration of the results of the investigation and the conditions and timing of the implementation. In the context of the establishment of the districts, regional government bodies have been converted according to district competence. At the same time, despite the change in their name, this conversion has not taken place in the case of district courts and district prosecutors. It is certainly justified that district courts be adapted not only in their name but also in their actual competence to walk. This is what the bill before us is intended to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the bill, allow me to draw attention to a few things. Nationally, the number of settlements affected by the amendment is low, not much higher than 100. Adapting to jurisdiction does not mean, in the case of all courts, that the jurisdiction of a court extends to the municipalities of a district. In the case of certain courts, this means that the jurisdiction of the district court extends to the jurisdiction of several courts and is in line with the limits of those walks. The proposed amendment to the areas of competence could be made in relation to rural districts. In the capital city, there are a total of six district courts covering the entire territory of the capital city, and it would require the establishment of 17 new district courts, which is not technically justified. At the same time, as a result of discussions with the National Court of Justice in the preparation of the bill, it was found that in some district courts full alignment with district areas could not be achieved in the short term, taking into account budgetary implications. These are the district courts: the District Court of Nagykata, the District Court of Buda, the District Court of Karcag and the District Court of Berettyóújfalu. In the area of competence of these district courts, re-regulation and adaptation to the jurisdiction of the district may take place later, following the examination of the conditions for investment in persons, property and infrastructure of these changes. In view of the fact that the area of competence of district prosecutors and police stations is, as a rule, adapted to the jurisdiction of the courts, a change in the jurisdiction of the district prosecutors and police stations would also be made. Since the areas of competence of independent judicial enforcement and notaries are essentially adapted to the area of competence of district courts, changes will, of course, also occur in this area, both automatically and where necessary, where the relevant legislation will be amended. Dear House, In order to ensure that cases pending before district courts are not even temporarily blocked by a transfer and that changes in the area of competence do not cause delays in their assessment, the bill provides that the new rules of jurisdiction should apply in cases initiated after the entry into force of the amendment under the bill. The above-mentioned bill serves the interests of citizens by making the rules on the functioning of the courts clearer and more customer-friendly by coordinating the areas of competence. I therefore recommend that the bill be taken to the attention of my fellow Members, asking for their support for this. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-90	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Ferenc Papcsák, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-29-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The T/4449 in front of us. CLXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. The motion for amendment of Law No 1 was discussed by the Judicial Committee and recommended by a large majority to be included in the series of articles. Following the preparatory work on the conceptual principles for the development of the districts of the Government of 1299/2011. has decided on its own decision. On this basis, the Government considered it necessary to establish the lowest territorial and organisational unit of the State's organisation in order to create a more efficient, cost-effective and customer-centred territorial administration. The objectives to be pursued in the design of the walks were as follows. [[13.50]] The implementation of the key element of the reorganization of the territorial government, the main rule is the deployment of public administration tasks to administrative territorial bodies, the integration of public administration bodies at district level, and the establishment of a long-term, stable walk based on identity, community building, urban structures and professional capacity. In 2012, the government's key objectives in the design of the districts included a complete organisational review and renewal of the local and territorial administration system, a remedy for its low efficiency and a more transparent structure. The government also intended to develop modern-day districts that contribute to an effective administration system. The development of districts is one of the most important elements of the comprehensive reform of the public administration to serve the common good, the creation of a so-called good state. On 1 January 2013, the name of the city courts changed to district courts, while maintaining the name of the metropolitan district courts, but this change did not affect the jurisdiction of the courts. The geographical breakdown of the courts at first instance was maintained, while the system of administrative districts was designed in some places with different coverage. In the context of the development of the districts, regional administrative bodies have been converted with district authority, but this has not been done in the case of district courts and district prosecutors, despite the change in their designation. This is going to happen now - I hope so. It is certainly justified that district courts be adapted not only in their name but also in their actual competence to walk. This objective is met by the bill on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts, which lies before us. Adapting to jurisdiction does not mean, for each court, that the jurisdiction of a court extends to the municipalities of a district, but, in the case of some courts, means that the jurisdiction of the district court extends to the jurisdiction of several courts and is in line with the limits of those districts. For example, the District Court of Nyíregyháza, which covers the territory of several administrative districts. In view of the fact that the area of competence of district prosecutors and police departments is, as a matter of principle, adapted to the jurisdiction of the courts, it is proposed that the jurisdiction of district prosecutors and police departments be changed automatically in line with the amendment of the area of jurisdiction of the courts. Of course, the legislator has taken note of the proposal that, in order to ensure that cases pending before the district court are not even temporarily prevented by a possible transfer and that the area of competence should not change or cause any delays in their assessment, the bill also provides that the new rules of competence should be applied or necessary in cases which have taken place after the amendment under the proposal came into force. It is important to note that, in amending Annex 1 to the Act, it is ensured that the area of competence of each district court is aligned with the jurisdiction of the district by the fact that in several cases the jurisdiction of a district court will extend to the jurisdiction of two or three districts. The law would now enter into force on 1 July. I would ask my fellow Members to support this motion. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-92	I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-04-29-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It's okay with us. Thank you very much. [[Defiance. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-94	I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-04-29-95	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely important to fine-tune the precise rules of jurisdiction and jurisdiction in the courts to the new levels of administration, taking into account the formation of districts in our changing world, knowing that each level of court is closely and inseparable, even though there is no subordination and subordination relationship between them, i.e. the higher courts in the hierarchy have no jurisdiction over the lower courts. The judges may decide, at any level, what decision they make and subject these decisions to the laws and their convictions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The first major change in the life of the court organisation during this millennium occurred during the first Orbán government, on the one hand, by adopting the Act on the Establishment of Judgment Boards, and, on the other hand, by drawing up the budget proposal of the court chapter from the powers of the executive authority to OIT. With this step, the full organisational and budgetary independence of the courts has also been achieved. During the second Orbán administration, local public authorities were transferred to district authority in connection with the establishment of a civil friendly administration, in particular the establishment of districts, but despite the change in their designation, this was not done for district courts and district prosecutors. This made it possible for the district courts not only to carry the name "walking" on their behalf, but also to adapt to the walks according to their actual competence. This objective is met by CLXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. a bill amending the law. Please support bill 4449; KDNP supports it. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-96	I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-29-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. We have discussed jurisdiction once in the last four-year term, there was a much more eerie debate here in the House, when we talked about the powers of the President of the National Court of Justice and his rise and right of appointment above the rules of competence. We were very different then. We could have different opinions here too, because, as we have said, why this bill is professionally justified, it is very beautiful and it seems very logical that indeed, if it is called a district court, then we should adapt its territory to the districts, and indeed, this would be perfectly logical and justified in all cases if there were a court in all districts - then we could fully support it. In any case, what I'm saying doesn't mean we don't support this bill. But what is the most important thing here? What the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always paid special attention to is whether it is a positive change or a negative change in the local population, for whom this means a change. In this regard, I have repeatedly criticized the government in the last term when it made such rules that it did not ask the locals whether it was good or bad for them. For example, when, if I remember correctly, Zala County's jurisdiction was transferred to the court of Pécs from the court of Győr to the third instance. Here, too, I saw that there was no proper question to the public as to where they wanted to belong, and in this case I tried to find out. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where I come from, 11 settlements are affected by this change, and for this reason I have called these settlements, or at least I have tried to call all the mayors in these areas and ask what the opinion of the population is, they are positively or negatively affected by this change. It was clear, according to the mayors' resolution, however, that I found that they did not know that such a change was going on, and it would obviously be good for the leaders of the settlements to know that such a change of jurisdiction was applicable to them, but they took a position that everyone understood that basically they should be adapted to the districts, and if their settlement belongs to a city in the district office, then the jurisdiction of the court, the jurisdiction of the prosecutor and the jurisdiction of the police should be included. [[14.00]] This was found logically, however, that in Szabolcs County the jurisdiction of the Nyíregyháza District Court is generally increased, not even slightly, since 9 new settlements are granted to Nyíregyházi District Court, which means that the turnover will increase significantly in this settlement, since so far 51 settlements have belonged to Nyíregyháza, then 60 teeth, and another settlement will change only in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Basically, because they get to Nyíregyháza - as I said - 90 percent of these settlements in the county, and the traffic situation in Szabolcs county is that transport to the county seat is basically the best, so practically these municipalities do not object to the change of jurisdiction, and in many cases it is better for them, because they do not need to get on the bus, but can travel in without a flight. While in the past, for example, they had to take the bus from the Balkány settlement - due to the jurisdiction of Nyírbátor - on the way to the court of Nyírbátor - in Nagykálló, they do not have to change their train, because they can enter Nyíregyháza directly, so this part of it will basically be better from this point of view. Another issue is that this change is clearly not only affecting the counties, the population of the districts, but also concerns judges who work there, as the turnover may increase significantly and, where appropriate, reduce by reporting. At the District Court of Nyíregyháza - what I have already said - where there will be 60 settlements instead of 51 settlements, this means that the jurisdiction of the District Court of Nyíregyháza will increase by practically 20 percent, which may bring you along - obviously most of the turnover is Nyíregyháza itself, but - up to 10-15 percent increase in turnover in such a city. But I could also give you the example of Ozd, where this dimension is much larger, where the area of jurisdiction of the Ozd District Court is increased by nearly 50 percent, and this brings with it an increase in turnover. Here, a judicial administration system has to be adapted to the need to remedy the problems that arise, as there will obviously be, because there is a fall in turnover, and elsewhere, where appropriate, such as the Nyíregyháza District Court or the Ozd District Court, there will be a serious increase in turnover, and there will be a need to remedy the shortage of labour, as this will obviously occur. We can also see from the experience of recent years that this will not mean that new judicial status will be allowed in these areas, as this has not been the case in rural courts in recent years, and that is precisely why the work of these rural courts is becoming increasingly difficult. There will be a need for some sort of rational transfer here. Obviously, it would be primarily the new status for increased judges, and here it will come as a question of how, if not, it will happen. We have had a very pleasant discussion here, arguing over the past few years with civil servants and also with government officials about the institution of secondment. I say that as busy as the judges in Hungary are and as responsible as they are doing their job, I think that when we will assign judges from 50 to 70 kilometres for up to one year to work there, because they must participate in the work of another district court and grow if necessary... Here, with Mr Secretary of State, we have had a lot of debate about the fact that it is just an hour and a half away, an hour and a half back in the case of civil servants. This is even more difficult for a judge, since his stress and responsible work will not allow for commuting for 2-3 hours a day, where appropriate. So here will be a difficult administrative issue to resolve. But I think that since this change of competence is fundamentally positive on the basis of majority feedback, it can be supported. It is particularly positive - what has already been said here in this debate, which has not really become a debate - that it will only apply to new cases brought after its entry into force, so there will be no transfer from one court to another, so there will be no change in this, this is certainly positive. For a temporary period of time, there will be a quasi conflict of jurisdiction that two courts will negotiate matters from the area, obviously one of the old ones and the new ones, but we hope that this will be positive. So we see that this bill is eligible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-29-98	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2015-04-29-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Mr. Secretary's exposé, I'd like to ask you the following. You mentioned Karcag among the settlements where the jurisdiction of the court would be different or waiting for a new transformation. Here I would like to ask for a more detailed presentation in the closing words, because, as a representative of the district and as a practicing lawyer myself, I have perceived the problem that perhaps the most important part of this question may be the fate of the district of Kunhegyes itself, i.e. the existence and existence of the city of Kunhegyes and the settlements belonging to the district. The district of Kunhegyes, as an administrative unit, has more settlements such as Kunhegyes, which belongs to the Karcagi District Court, while Abadszalok belongs to the District Court of Tiszafüred, but Tiszabő in the district of Kunhegyes and Tiszaroff belong to the District Court of Szolnok. So I would like to get a somewhat clearer picture in this, if the Secretary of State has the opportunity to clarify what plans there are to clarify the fate of the district of Kunhegyes, so whether there will be a district of Kunhegyes as an administrative unit, or if, in the end, this should be seen as those areas now belong to the district courts: for example, Kunhegyes will belong to the district of Karcag, for example, Tiszabő and Tiszaroff will belong to the Szolnok district, and, say, Abadszalók belongs to Tiszafüred. Which way does the government intend to take? In this case, will the administrative units be adapted to the jurisdiction of the court, or will administrative terminology remain? Because here it seems that the only place in the county will be the town of Kunhegyes and the district of Kunhegyes. I think it would be worth clarifying this because it affects a large population by seeing the redeployment, dissolution or transformation of the administrative unit. Of course, the fact that the jurisdiction of the court is different will affect a much smaller layer; although everyone is affected, obviously, but not everyone ends up or doesn't go to court to enforce his rights, but in the public administration he is involved in the district administration most of the time. So if you have a firm and existing position on this, or if you are able to show which direction the government is thinking in, which direction you want to go, whether you will stick to district court jurisdiction at the expense of public administration, or vice versa, and leave such an exception to the general rule in a few places where it seems impossible, both geographically and administratively, to reorganise. A definite answer would be good, since then residents can also count on changes in their lives, such as access to district services, district administration, or public administration. That would be good to know in advance. Maybe the government will be able to clear this up. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-100	I'm asking if there's any further intention of commenting. [[No signal.]] I do not see this, so the debate is closed. I give the author the opportunity to rejoinder, Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary.
u2015-04-29-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I thank the groups, of course, for their support for the bill, and, on the other hand, as far as possible, the Ministry of Justice and the National Court Office have conducted the necessary consultations that were necessary for the submission of the bill, but indeed, here from the debate and even before the debate, it seems that there are still unclear issues concerning the area of competence. Therefore, I ask you - and I promise you that we will examine all the points carefully - either in the form of an amending proposal or simply in a written form, so that we can adopt, if necessary, amendments in Parliamentary committees, in particular in the Committee on Justice and in the Committee on Legislative Affairs. [[14.10]] It is natural that there are demands, legitimate needs, which are not yet satisfied because they are not ready to set up certain courts. To give you an example, this is a very well-known example, there is no court-martial in the town of Érd County. Érd is the only county-righted town in Hungary that does not have an independent court. Obviously, this issue should be resolved, but there is no court building in Érden at the moment, so it is not physically ready to set up a district court in Érd. However, if there is a proposal and a solution to this, which also spares the budget, then, of course, these areas of district court jurisdiction can be changed. But I would like to stress that this proposal, which we have tabled, is a proposal agreed in several rounds and taken into account by the National Court Office for its own budget and the development of judicial buildings, so at the moment, we think that this would be the most appropriate solution contained in the bill. It may, of course, be possible to modify later in the areas of competence. They remember that the law governing the seat and jurisdiction of the courts was separated from the law of the court organization. This is a law requiring a simple majority, so it is relatively easy to modify, obviously taking into account the need to give customers the time to prepare, and the judicial body itself must also provide the time to prepare for them to function. Otherwise, the law - I did not say in the opening speech - would enter into force on 1 July, but, as I said, these would be the new rules of jurisdiction for new, new cases. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-29-102	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. A general debate on the bill to amend certain laws in the context of speeding up the implementation of transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy is now taking place. The submission is T/4453. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, who will present the presentation on the pulpit.
u2015-04-29-103	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The creation of high-quality transport links is a priority for the sectoral approach, but it is a prerequisite for social and economic development. The accelerated pace of life, motorization and individual economic and commercial needs require that our competitiveness be continuously improved from this point of view. The quality of transport affects investors' willingness to settle, labour mobility and affects all sectors of the economy. Getting there, getting there safely and in more comfortable conditions, has always been a challenge for mankind. The need for high-quality transport connections is an old expectation, we have read about it, and we know that in ancient times and in the Middle Ages, it was vital that relations were able to influence specific cities and city states. The reason why I mention the Silken Road connecting the continents or the Ivyan Road connecting the seas is because today and tomorrow there is a meeting of the Eurasian Transport Ministers in Riga, which clearly raises important issues, including what kind of transport development concept can be developed in order to build a long-term and secure relationship, in which countries of Europe and Asia can participate. We know precisely that this is the most important sector for everyone, also because the good transport sector can also create the success of other sectors, otherwise it is impossible without it. It is therefore important for all countries to be able to carry out their roads, railways, waterways and airways at a speed and as far as possible in time. In the present world there is an increased expectation, a higher demand, and we believe that we can do nothing but meet this increased demand as best and as quickly as possible. Due to our location in the country, there is also a great deal of road going through, and as part of the trans-European transport network, this ensures, among other things, our relations with the Member States of the Union and, of course, beyond that with the continents. In view of its importance, it should also be added that transport activity in Hungary accounts for 6 percent of the total national product, the construction of transport networks and the total production of vehicles represent every 10 jobs in Hungary, and the value of the infrastructure itself is about five percent of the country's entire national assets. These examples show very well that transport, in addition to being a prerequisite for development, is complex in itself and is crucial for the national economy. The results and effectiveness of the transport development plans in the coming years are therefore of paramount importance to the country. In order to create a modern road network, a complex, comprehensive work has already started in October of the previous year, with the aim of reaching a decision as quickly and as quickly as possible. As a result, there is, among other things, this proposal before this House. Dear Parliament, In the period following the change of regime, new impetus was given to investment in transport development. A number of legislation has been adopted for the effective and rapid implementation of these developments. However, it is now safe to say as a fact that, despite all noble goals, a section of the road, the period of the construction of an expressway, from decision to completion, may be ten years. I had it examined and it turned out that the current average duration of the preparation was six and a half years. So we prepare our investments for six and a half years, while the construction activity itself is, on occasion, one third or, in worse cases, half of this. In order to ensure that our investments are not lost to the distant future, the proposed bill aims to amend the multifaceted regulation on the subject at the most important points of intervention. Within matters of national importance, the scope of the special rules is set out in a new category. These are our transport infrastructure investment cases, the exact list of which will be determined by a government decree after the adoption of the bill. A prior consultation by the investor and a rule on its institution will facilitate the acquisition of official authorisations. On this basis, the investor, with the participation of all the relevant authorities, will identify the obstacles to trails and design as well as the extremely important aspects of the investigation already at the initial stage of work. In order to reduce the number of official procedures, it will be possible, at the investor's request, to carry out soil protection, soil protection and forest protection procedures in the context of the environmental impact assessment procedure. In its environmental authority procedure, it is a new step that the authority invites the investor to consult in the event of a deficiency, which helps to clarify the facts and the faster procedure. Another new element is that, in the event of a delay in the reply of the administrative authority, the determining authority may decide on the issue itself in order to avoid further delay. The period of validity of the environmental permit will be changed to 10 years instead of five years from the date of issue of the permit. A wide-ranging professional consultation during the delineation phase allows for much more planning and more complex weighing planning work. This is the basis for each preparatory workflow to be carried out not only in succession but in parallel. The construction authorisation procedure may be carried out even if a judicial review of the environmental permit is ongoing and the permit has not yet been issued. The construction authorisation procedure may also be carried out if the municipality has not yet provided for the modification of the settlement plan, with the trail creating consistency, but the builder has already initiated the government office procedure. The amendment of the expropriation procedure serves to accelerate the implementation of investments by allowing and assigning experts with official guarantees at the beginning of the procedure, i.e. an official expert who will be involved throughout the process. [[14.20]] In view of the fact that, in general, ownership claims, not generally, almost exclusively, relate to the amount of compensation, and therefore, the bill provides for an interim judicial judgment in respect of the legal basis. In order to allow the investor to enter the property concerned by the investment as soon as possible, the decision authorising archaeological and soil surveys should not be suspended. The deadlines will be shorter in priority development cases and the procedures will be dealt with nationally by three courts. Archaeological works are also accelerated by the proposal. Prior to completion, archaeological explorations shall be carried out at the same time throughout the transferred investment phase. The bill separates preventive exploration and other stages of work not affected by it. In the case of artifacts found during construction, guaranteeing the highest possible level of decision-making that should be considered in a complex manner, the Minister for Cultural Heritage should order exploration if otherwise it is impossible to ensure the preservation of the artifacts. The bill also provides a solution in case the local government does not bring the assets of settlement settlements into line with the plan, the path of the investment. In this case, on the initiative of the investor, the government office acting as the main architect of the State will be entitled to carry out the procedure, naturally subject to continuous monitoring of municipal needs. In order to standardise the application of the law and clarify the regulation, the bill also clarifies the additional needs of the local government involved in the construction authorisation procedure. Addressing this has always been a special task, and it has never been easy, since it is necessary to determine what additional needs can be formulated and accepted. One must and can only be accepted, which naturally compensates for traffic growth and cannot make development itself impossible. [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] In addition to the areas of intervention listed, the bill also provides solutions to a number of professional issues. For example, the regulation of ownership barriers related to the placement of road-related facilities, the replacement of public works, the creation of a ground-based road building right or the establishment of a regulated procedure for the management of agricultural land affected by development. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, The proposal to implement transport infrastructure investments in a particularly rapid manner meets and addresses individual, social and economic fundamental needs. By transforming the legal background and the regulatory environment, solutions will be of the right quality and timely nature to meet today's challenges. However, the adoption of the bill is not only a single step but also a first step, followed by a number of lower-level legislation and a number of government measures will also follow. In the wake of 13 legislative amendments, about 30 government decrees will ensure that the Hungarian economy continues to grow, and this will be done under safe conditions. We would like to build Hungary's missing road connections, and naturally we need to switch to higher speeds. Our goal is also clearly in the sense of government decision and our strategy, so that our motorways reach national borders, that our county-righted cities, the county seats, are connected directly to the expressway network. Important investments have been missed in Hungary in recent years. In many regions, many people have been waiting to build the roads they have been waiting for for for years, rather for decades, where their lives have been more bitter, worse, and less safe. The bill provides a guarantee that the priority investments will be made and I trust that they will support this. I hope that there are no Members in this House who do not feel the weight of the responsibility of their decision, because this is a bill that can be sided with it. I would not believe it, and I hope that I will not experience that there are people in this House who would prevent the construction of motorways in Hungary, the missing sections of motorways and the connections that are important to people living in the region. In order to catch up with the Hungarian countryside, all Members must reconsider their attitude and also help to implement the proposal. You can read fifty-one pages of proposals, who have the strength and the desire to get involved in this proposal, and you can see how extensive the regulation is. I believe that the Members of this House, regardless of party standing, will support the establishment of fast-track connections in every county seat, arrive in Sopron, arrive in Békéscsaba, finally connect settlements that are economically important in moving the region, as we must connect Esztergom, link Ózd to Bátony terenya, connect Miskolc to Ozd, and naturally build up the existing connection of every county seat. I trust that everyone here will support, for example, the M2 to be fully built, the M30 to Kassa, the M4 road to the Oradea crossing, the M34 to the Beregdaróci section, the construction of the motorway and the fast-track connection to Tornyosnémeti or Tornyszentmiklós, the establishment of the missing connection from Szentgottthárd to Körmend, and the direct connection of Zalaegerszeg to the M7 section will support every important investment, such as the airport of Győr-Pápa, or the connection of the city of Kaposvár to the M7 as well. We have plans to help Hungary continue its operation and the development of the economy. That is why I trust that all Members will consider it when they speak up and decide on their support. I do not believe that someone here in this House or later will vote against or support our proposal without thinking about what it would be like to meet people who died earlier on Highway 471, for example, or have died at other stages that people consider as a road to death. I trust that everyone will think about this, and it will not be the decision of the power, yes or gender of your support, or the possibility of which floor and on what principles you are politicalising. I very much hope that my fellow Members will form a line on this proposal and support it. Certainly, if we manage to carry it over, we will be able to implement our regulations quickly after the law, if the government accepts and gives the task to its ministers for regulation, then I think and believe that every single investment will be carried out by the deadline. The reason why Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, representing the Hungarian government, and his escort, goes to every county-righted city and county seat is because he wants to make it clear when the fast-track connections will be ready. It has been made clear in Eger, Zalaegerszeg, Miskolc, Pécs, Sopron for the first time, and I think that every city with county rights can wait for an agreement to clarify the date when these will be ready. And they will be prepared if you will support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-29-104	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to István Happy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will also give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-04-29-105	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The calling of the human sex is not destruction, destruction, destruction, but to work, create, create. Count István Széchenyi, whose words I quoted, was one of the greatest creators of our nation's history. Not only has he dreamed of improvements, but he has also completed them, such as the construction of the Chain Bridge, whose plans were made in 1829, the foundation stone was laid in 1842 and handed over to traffic in 1849. We can see that the 19th. In the first century, it took a long time to realize such a beautiful plan. Unfortunately today, the XXI. Despite technical progress, similar investments are still very slow. What old dreams of the Szolnok County highways M4 and M44, whose design began years ago, and it will be years before these investments are completed! If we were to briefly state the substance of the bill before us: By adopting the law, we will replace a 21st century construction pace. It's a hundredth century. I think that the problems around road development, motorway construction or other important investments in the public interest are more or less known to all of us. It is often hard for the public to understand why several years after the constructions announced with the big dérrel major, the only thing they can say with open arms is that licensing procedures are still under way, expropriations are delayed, preparations are under way, or the investment is delayed due to archaeological exploration. [[14.30]] Every argument will probably stand up, but together it will publish a critical mass to which the voter rightly believes that there is nothing here but corruption, overpriced, bureaucracy, and other. The fact is, however, that the state cannot be blamed for its best efforts to comply with the legislation in force at the construction site. It is not obvious that all privately owned properties can be bought from the owner on the trail of a motorway without any problems. Some have to be prosecuted for expropriation, but he can even challenge that in court. We also know the mazes and slowness of justice. In addition, there are official authorisation procedures for environmental protection, soil, which will extend the preparation for a long period of weeks. And if everything is ready, a larger archeological procedure can still slow down the execution. Almost all cases are different, and many aspects need to be taken into account. It matters a lot whether there is a body or a functioning installation in the area, but whether it is an internal or an external land is not irrelevant. Another consideration is that if the aim is to obtain the cultivation area, it must be excluded from cultivation in this case. In some cases, circumstances should be clarified as to whether or not the property owner is alive or where the relatives are located. The more difficult the acquisition of land and the replacement of public works, which is also the task of the state, the more integrated the trail is, if there is undivided common property in the area, or if the land registration of the property is unorganized. In general, between 65 and 80 percent of the land is acquired by sale to the State and 20 and 35% by expropriation; the latter procedure is more time-consuming. The value of the land is determined by the judicial expert taking into account various factors, such as the quality of the land or the market price. If the owner of the proposed land does not accept the tender price, the administrative expropriation procedure for a longer period of time shall begin. Normally, the acquisition of an environmental permit may take two years, but it may be even longer due to discussions and discussions. After that, export and construction permits have to be obtained - another two to three years - and construction may take up to two years if the money is available. There can also be an exlex condition such as one of the most popular internet sites in November last year that a motorway section passes through land that is still privately owned. The reason for this absurd legal situation was that the expropriation decision issued in May 2014 did not rise to legal force. But there was also a problem with the disorder of the deed, the large number of owners, the successions in the meantime, the length of legacy and replacement inheritance procedures. So we can see that this is a real problem. The bill before us aims to provide a comprehensive, long-term solution to these systemic problems. It is not a good solution that every time the state wants to make a larger investment, it is forced to bring the matter to Parliament and make it a priority investment to make the construction more smooth. This justifies, among other things, the provision of the proposal to place the decision on priority investments at government regulation level. At the same time, we are aware that two interests are potentially conflicting here. On the one hand, it is in the interest of the owner, who clearly causes inconvenience or causes material damage when an investment is made on his property of land or property. There are two options. One is that the owner only has to endure the inconveniences of the investment - noise, dust - and the other is when, where appropriate, he has to move out of the property where he has lived or stop farming on the land he has kept in cultivation. In view of this, the proposal respects the legal basis for expropriating property only exceptionally, in the public interest, with immediate and full compensation. On the other hand, there is a public interest which requires, where appropriate, motorway construction in a disadvantaged region or long-term road construction, potentially used by millions of people, to be completed as soon as possible. Obviously, no one's purpose is to defy private interests and public interests in a demagogic way. Both the aim and the proposal aim to give both interests scope within the limits of rationality, but not to maintain the possibility of abuse of rights. Public investments, road and motorway constructions are considered to be of general interest according to the spirit and intention of the proposal. It is interesting, however, which is also stated in the reasoning of the proposal, that in many cases owners do not question the legal basis for expropriation, translating the validity of the construction into Hungarian, but the amount of expropriation compensation is all the more disputed. That's why most expropriation lawsuits start. These court proceedings may extend to an infinite length, because during the trial the expropriation, so the entire investment, will be suspended. That is why I consider it important to make the provision of the proposal that, in the event that the owner does not challenge the legal basis in the expropriation case, the judge should be required to give so-called interim judgment and that enforcement should be suspended only until such judgment is delivered, but can then be enforced. The legislative logic here is, therefore, that a lawsuit on the amount of compensation should not hinder the realisation of the investment. However, if the legal basis for expropriation is contested by the owner, the expropriation procedure shall be suspended until the dispute is settled by judicial means. The public interest is also linked to the extension of some of the so-called tolerance obligations in the proposal. For example, the explanatory memorandum repeatedly states, in the case of dewatering works related to core network road constructions, that the citizen is subject to a tolerance obligation which lasts as long as there is still room for proper use of the property. If there is no possibility of normal use, the owner may, in accordance with the principle applicable to restrictions in the public interest, request the property to be expropriated. I therefore think that in this case, the authors have found compromise legal solutions with which the rights of the injured have been guaranteed, but the interests arising from investment in the public interest are also taken into account. The proposal weeds out a number of problems that appear to be less significant at first sight, which can cause annoying complications at a construction site. Let me mention one of these, the railway platform, which has not yet been included in the Railway Act, so that the rules on the construction of these structures had to be applied automatically, for which the permission of the territorially competent construction authority had to be sought. At this point, for example, the proposal will include the platform as a part of the rail track, and the authorisation will now fall within the competence of the rail transport authority. I'm sure it's only a few weeks, but it's speeding up the construction of the recently renewed railway infrastructure. The proposal would prevent the extension of the authorisation procedure by considering the consent of the municipalities to be granted even if no statement was made within 30 days of the request of the builder. The proposal also addresses a significant problem by giving the former owner free of charge after the technical transfer of public works created in the course of road development and renovation, while this had to be redeemed earlier for money. The operation of water facilities belonging to the road is also excluded from the tasks of the Water Management Board. Now allow me to move on to an area likely to trigger a greater debate, and this is a review of the regulation of archaeological studies. Here, the law would create a special procedural regime in order to ensure that explorations are fully adapted to the timetable and tight time limit for road development. It would be an important change if, in the case of partial activities, the work could be carried out by non-accredited institutions and the duration of the exploration would be set at 30 days. The Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage could order an out-of-court investigation if the discovery cannot be protected without hindering the execution. The investor and the contractor should wait eight days from that date before continuing the work, unless another decision has been taken by the Minister for Exploration. The rules on compensation and expropriation are also amended on a number of points. If the use of the property significantly impedes or renders the normal use of the property impossible, the owner may demand that the State buys it. If the parties fail to reach an agreement on the compensation amount, the area will be expropriated. [[14.40]] When building a tunnel, the owners would be obliged to tolerate the use of the property and to install the facilities necessary for the safe operation of the tunnel with a final building permit. The reason for this is that tunnels are the most expensive improvements, so obstruction of construction in this case causes significant social damage. The legislator also proposes changes in the way in which the area band covered by the trail and the duration of protection are defined. It would issue a regulation for its initial designation and, contrary to previous practice, adapt it to the timetable for improvements. In the case of railway development, land belonging to the National Land Fund would also be included in the management of the building property. There would be no exception to this, nor would there be a better than average soil, but only if the trail could not be determined elsewhere. It follows, therefore, that there is a clear need to strive here, too, to ensure that, if possible, the trail does not pass through well - growing lands. In the case of transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy, the government would designate in a regulation matters of major importance in relation to them, and it would also be able to manage the detailed regulation in the same way as proposed. Environmental permits would be valid for 10 years instead of the general five. In the case of certain investments, the construction authorisation procedure could also be carried out if the review of the environmental permit required for it had not yet been completed. Dear House, In general, the word "public interest" is capable of being abused. However, in the case of the proposal we are discussing here, I think that no one can argue that the public interest in this case is indeed derived from the summation of private ideas. After all, the individual interests of hundreds of thousands of people would be damaged, and often hurt, if certain investments and road improvements aimed at facilitating our lives were delayed because the state was unable to coordinate legislation, licensing and legal preparation on the basis of common sense in connection with an investment. However, we are not only talking about hurting interests, but also about saving hundreds of millions of forints that are currently caused by prolonged procedures, by authorities sitting at the last moment on authorisation, by enforcement proceedings lasting for years. Of course, we should think carefully about the regulation, we should not pour the baby out with the bath water, but I think this proposal has found the right balance, so please support it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-29-106	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-04-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure the country needs road construction, roads, even more. It is an absolutely known crisis management symptom that public infrastructure investments should be encouraged in the event of an economic crisis, so that both employment and construction work can be maintained and the economy can be kept on the move at all. We are very sorry that you have not recognised this in the last four years, because then, from the six and a half years of preparation that you have said, I think, from an experienceal point of view in your expo, we could have saved four, and then we would not have needed this, and I do not want to have a single indication of this bill, let us say, a law of acceleration, so that road construction and railway construction could actually take place in the foreseeable future. So what you said in the Széchenyi István quote about what is not the calling of the human, not the corruption, the destruction, but the construction, is very appropriate. I can only say that it would have been good to have been put up on the wall in the last four years and not to destroy systems that allowed authorisation in the field of construction, for example, and now this proposal finally admits that it does not work in normal order, that the authorisation procedure is normal, that you must create an exceptional, special law that, in the foreseeable future, the Prime Minister, as a good king, can visit the county and promise road connections and construction systems. Instead of small delicacies, they took out the big axe and immediately started carving the authorisation and preparation process. The proposal concerns 13 pieces of legislation immediately. There are quite a few two-thirds of these. Such as the Act on the Protection of Land, the Forest, the Forest Protection, the Forestry Act, the National Land Fund Act; what was said here as clarification on expropriation, I think, is appropriate, and there may be areas for an expropriation procedure that really needs to be simplified in order to achieve such an accelerated road construction objective. So I am not saying that there are no parts in this proposal that are eligible for funding, of course, the goal is the right one, but this is about saving your four-year work that you have missed. At the same time, the methodology, all of this, is to introduce procedures, procedures that would affect the outcome of one outcome of which would have an impact on the other, which is highly questionable. What they say is that, in the end, if the local government does not have a proper development plan, i.e. it has not yet made a regulation, they can walk beyond it themselves, so a municipal decree in today's legal structure is, to say the least, a legal source, a local regulation. To confuse everything, to upset it for an otherwise acceptable purpose, to build roads quickly, basically, to compensate for the omissions of the past four years, is highly questionable. When the author uses such noble terms as to meet the challenges of today, it is possible to meet the challenges of today, if digital technology is used at a higher level, informatics is used at a higher level, computer investment planning is used at a higher level, more modern road construction technology is used at a higher level, but what is, let me say, legitimized here is rushing itself. So it doesn't refer to a level of solutions appropriate to the challenges and opportunities of the age, which is laid down here, but this business like Attila, that the Tatars are coming, and then they cut through where the road was determined to be, unless they change their minds as they are now on the M4 phase, and then they stay there in half. There is an old Hungarian proverb that work is rarely good. This does not mean, of course, that slow work is certainly good, but the often good saying of the people is that if one tries to solve a complex task by jumping over the necessary preparation steps, one bypass, one bypass, one bypass, protecting environmental values in an environment, taking into account [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] - someone's really good at music, who is it? [[Defiance.]] - to reach a solution even in the construction of motorways , even in railway construction, there must be time for the technicians, engineers, to find suitable, reassuring solutions on the one hand. This has long been a proven fact that an hour on the design table can save or spoil a thousand export hours. So there are unconscious imbalances in pressing the preparation time, the designers, there is no time to mature the plans, there is no time to come up with those later construction problems, it will often cost thousands of times in the implementation phase. [[14.50]] Similarly, if the procedures are pushed to such an extent, there is no way to evaluate the experience of one procedure until the start of the other procedure, so everything is done in parallel, and I do not see the assurance that, for example, there should be a duty of reconciliation between authorities conducting different procedures, that at least they know about each other, who has come to what conclusion he has made, and about what agreement he will reach with the licensor, so when these guarantees are not included in the submission, only this incredibly large desire to allow things to run along then, that authorisation, environmental protection, water, everything, will be concerned that this procedure does not provide sufficient assurance that at the end, taking into account all the various aspects, appropriate permits, appropriate solutions will be made. So to sum up: by welcoming the government's move towards moving out of its paralysed state and building a transport infrastructure in Hungary, in addition to its intention to do so at a good pace and at a high professional level, this, as we see fit, carries risks to the objectives to be supported, which we consider to be possible, together with further coordination and reflection of the processes and the integration of technical reconciliation guarantees, which I referred to only a part of the current issues, because the parliamentary debate is not the same as an inter-ministerial agreement, which gives us greater guarantees that the guarantees of the process that has been guaranteed by the current authorisation procedure and that it can transfer the results of each procedure to this accelerated timetable. At present, this is a proposal in which the objectives are formulated, some instruments are formulated, but the guarantees that, according to experience, would provide the necessary quality are not included. On this basis, we can only support it with either recasting or serious additions. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-29-108	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-04-29-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, What I'm doing here today is just a matter of the M4 motorway. In 2006, the main campaign topic was the construction of the M4 motorway in our region, Cegléd-Nagykőrös-Abony. The socialist candidate campaigned so that in 2010 we could take the motorway from Szolnok to Budapest at least, it is possible that we might be able to get to the border, so we can almost get to Oradea on the motorway. And this motorway construction failed an environmental impact study that was sent to the EU, and it did not accept this impact assessment, and for this reason it is claimed that the M4 motorway could not be built until 2010. I think that the outstanding need of our region, Cegléd-Abony-Nagykőrös, is the construction of the M4 motorway, because this is also in line with the government's idea of connecting the county seat to the expressway network, and thus, for example, the connection of Szolnok to this system may mean that this motorway will reach the other nodes by touching Szolnok-Abony-Cegléd. In this bill, I think it is very important, among other things, that certain deadlines are narrowed down and certain deadlines are extended, for example, the question of environmental impact assessment can be used from five to ten years, and other cases are shortened. This bill focuses particularly on the planning, I repeat, planning and licensing processes prior to implementation. Since this period, as Mr Secretary of State has said, takes six, six and a half years, and the implementation is significantly less than that, so in some way - I accept what our fellow Member Józsa said - to use digital systems, to use today's technology in this design and preparation. Obviously, they will do it in their territory, but we still need to speed it up in any way. Dear House, The development of the road can affect not only properties owned by third parties, but also state-owned properties... - remember when the M0 motorway was built towards the Danube, so to speak, from Route 5, and about such an area of two or three thousand square meters belonged to a settlement, and the lawsuit lasted for years to see how much you buy, who buys, why you buy, and so on and so forth. It is not that, I am convinced, that the municipalities are being shaken by this law, so to speak, that they want to take their property or to destroy regulations made by local authorities, but to establish a normal partnership between construction, planning and implementation with the local authorities, because I believe that it is also in the interest of the local authorities to talk about rail development, whether we are talking about road development, all of these things being implemented. Once again, let me go back to M4 for a moment: why is this important to us, the southeast corner of Pest County? In terms of Eurostat data, Central Hungary reached 110 percent of the EU average in 2011 in terms of GDP per capita at purchasing power parities. By breaking up the region, it can be seen that from 2010 to 11 Budapest has increased this value from 145 to 148 percent, while the county of Pest has decreased from 58 percent to 57 percent. It is interesting to mention that four convergence counties have better indicators than this part of Pest County or Pest County. The unemployment rate is also worse than in the Central Hungary region in our region. That is why we say and say everywhere that the development of this area is unthinkable without the construction of the M4 motorway. We know very well that the quality of road networks affects many things in an area, the number of jobs, the development of businesses, the development of our county, our small region, so that we can make settlements in small areas more attractive for companies, investors, and thus create new jobs, improve the quality of life of families, ensure proper road and rail transport. The KDNP faction supports the proposed bill and encourages its fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-04-29-110	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-04-29-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a bill in an area where we can see the area that this bill now wants to regulate as a hunting ground for businessmen directly from Viktor Orbán's immediate environment. From high-value infrastructure investments, several governments have become close major entrepreneurs in the last 25 years and have become billionaires. If we look at the background of being able to become a influential businessman in Hungary, which also determines political life, we can basically see these investments and the businessmen associated with these investments in the background. I find it sad that in Hungary it is these businessmen with the highest assets who have acquired their wealth only from business with the state, only with the municipality, not with the employment of many people in the free market. When the government talks about six and a half years of average preparation time for such a large investment in infrastructure, it must be asked, my fellow Members - I believe Mr Tasó, what he said that the average preparation time is six and a half years - why, after five years of Fidesz governance, you notice that the average preparation time is six and a half years. Why didn't you notice that much sooner? It is also worth examining whether the only problem with these high-value infrastructure investments is that they are too long to prepare for them, or whether it is worth examining why these significant investments are so expensive. It is worth looking at the fact that when the European Union pays tender money to Hungary, it operates various operational programmes, and within them large road and rail constructions are created, what is happening in Hungary. Does the European Union give us the money so that Hungarians can travel faster? Or, on the contrary, is it about building the necessary infrastructure for companies established in Hungary in the European Union? I am afraid of him here, fellow Members, that we are in favour of the national part of the tender money in every case, and the European Union is paying these funds to build the necessary infrastructure for the Western European companies established here. The situation is similar to when the British colonial empire built roads in India: they told the Indian people to be grateful, for the queen had made provision for the construction of the roads, but I fear that the queen did not pity the Indian people for walking knee-deep in mud, but for creating the infrastructure needed to loot the colony in India. This is also the case in Hungary when these high-value investments are supported by the European Union, and we, with the money of Hungarian taxpayers, add the necessary part to the fact that the western European states of the European Union, following their own self-interest, create the necessary infrastructure in Hungary for their own industry in this way. So this is a very important thing. We need to see where the money that we are regulating with this bill goes. One half of the government goes to close business circles, in the last government cycle, the Public Machine was the great winner of this process. Since there was then a major war between the Public Machine and Fidesz - who knows why, we cannot see behind the scenes - it turned out that the businessman's workplace in the Prime Minister's immediate environment would receive these high-value investments, they are now the main beneficiaries of this process. On the other hand, of course, there are the large construction companies in Western Europe who carry out these investments in a traditional way: Colas, Strabag, Swietelsky. Just asking myself, fellow Members, is there no technology for road construction or railway construction available in Hungary? Do we need, say, Strabag or Swietelsky to build a motorway or a railroad because we Hungarians ourselves cannot do this? I'm afraid that's not what this is about. The European Union's allocation of funds seems to be building partly on the Hungarian taxpayers' money and partly on the EU Member States' subsidies in Hungary the infrastructure background, and it is doing so in such a way that a significant part of this money is receding for the largest Western European road construction companies, as Strabag, Swietelsky, Colas Western European companies are bringing home the profits generated here. In this process, the other half of the involved government is placed in close business circles, with businessmen who distribute these EU funds very well through their background deals, through their political friends and contacts, and in this way virtually nothing else happens but that the Hungarian political elite will benefit, the government's close business circles will also benefit, and, of course, those Western European companies who receive these orders will also benefit. It is also worth looking at the building material that we integrate into these investments, where it comes from, for infrastructure investments. At the time of the change of regime, there was still significant Hungarian construction material production, these building materials sites, with busy political involvement and assistance, have been continuously liquidated over the past 25 years and have been owned by Western Europe. Just think, for example, the Wienerberger brick factory was not always called Wienerberger. This was at one time 100% owned by Hungarians, and you can safely go through concrete companies, cement factories and a lot of things. They were transferred to Western European property, increased their prices significantly, and when we marvel at the fact that, for example, in the 1970s, an average working couple could build a house from their salary - I know it wasn't a big deal for a village nerd house, I know it wasn't a castle spinning on a cabal, but it was still available because of the low price of construction material for an ordinary Hungarian working couple - while today a young man is miserable in his apartment because he doesn't have enough money to pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we've come to. And the process that is taking place here not only results in large Western European companies working in the construction sector taking out gigantic profits from Hungary with government involvement, but also results in the profits of the commercialised Hungarian construction industry being delivered to Western European companies in the last 25 years, and they are taking it out of the country. This, therefore, again, shows that the cash pump is working unfortunately at the expense of Hungary in this area as well. It was interesting to listen to Congressman István Happy, on behalf of Fidesz, when he spoke about the fact that Mr. The Hungarian state is at a 100th-century construction pace when it comes to these large infrastructure investments. Dear Congressman. I wish you were right and XIX. We would build roads in Hungary at a 100th-century pace! If you look at the XIX. In the first century - to tell you nothing else - the experience of historical times, the train was running faster in Budapest-Vác than in Hungary recently, in the 19th century. The construction of roads was also faster in the century than it is now. If we look back at what I have just mentioned recently, that, when this country was not controlled by Viktor Orbán, its ministers and similar politicians, but by real statesmen, it could have been achieved that there were large numbers of public jobs and cubics, for example, the price regulation of the river Tisza, 400 river bends with manual work - there were no high-value grabbers, various earth workers, and, I add, there were no government-wide large entrepreneurs that would have looted these large investments - indeed, if there had been such statesmen at the head of the country now, and not politicians serving economic interest groups. And I'm just going to keep it parentheses that I wish I had XIX. Large investments in infrastructure would take place in Hungary at the pace of the century. Believe me, I'd really like that. It was also an interesting thought for the Member when he spoke of the fact that the state cannot be blamed for the slow pace of these investments. [[15.10]] Well, tell me, who can be blamed for it if it's not the state? Didn't the state make the rules that way? Didn't successive governments turn the legal environment into this? Yes, you can. Well, you've waited five years for this bill to be drafted here. How can you not blame the state for that? Well, let's not blame this on the taxpayers or the players in the competitive economy. It is clear that policy has a responsibility to prepare a high value investment in infrastructure for an average period of 6.5 years. It's quite obvious. It was also an interesting idea on the part of the Member, and in this connection, the Jobbik faction would, of course, like to present a proposal amending it so as not to have to bring these national investments to Parliament, but to regulate them only at the level of a government regulation. In Hungarian, the Fidesz faction now asks the opposition parties to cooperate in further limiting the powers of the Parliament, and it is enough to govern the country only in the form of ministerial decrees, and a minister can decide where to build a road and where not. Well, Congressman, I would like to do the exact opposite in a traditional way by opposition parties, and democracy also shows that priority investments must be discussed before the broadest possible plenum, not narrowly, behind closed doors, the fate of these investments within governments. Traditionally, we miss impact assessments, payback calculations in these investments, we almost never saw anything like this, or at least I certainly don't remember it, even though I was very curious about the data on this. For example, when I think about it, and here I turn to the government's current Secretary of State, Mr Tasó, that the government wants to build the V0 railway ring for HUF 360 billion, it wants to take credit, burden the Hungarian taxpayers to create it, what is the government's justification for this investment. It is justified by the fact that due to the limited transfer capacity of rail freight traffic in Budapest, it is necessary to build a ring around Budapest for HUF 360 billion that serves the rail freight traffic, which avoids the capital city. Well, I wasn't lazy, and I looked at the data on the rail freight traffic. And what I saw was that during the change of regime we were able to carry 100 million tonnes of goods, three times as much traffic through Budapest, and interestingly, this did not cause any problems at that time, and now suddenly the government, led by Fidesz, is unable to carry a third load through Budapest, so it would like to take 360 billion forints as a loan to the taxpayer and build the new ring. The question arises here: isn't it possible that there are government close business circles that like to build railroads and they need the order? Even if that order doesn't serve reasonable purposes? We can move on to highway M6. Where are the impact studies that, for example, should have been carried out in the period of the Socialist Government? 8,000 people travel on this highway a day, so the use of the motorway is very low, so I don't think it was worth building this highway in its present form. Especially those valley bridges, the tunnels dug into the loess walls, as this was done. Highway M4. The Orbán government approved this construction at a price 60 percent higher than the average mileage of German motorways. The question is, why does it not appear to the government until after they have started investing, but only after the government has broken the dust with Lajos Simicska. Shouldn't we have taken care of that first? Shouldn't a filter have been installed in the system that if there was a certain deviation from the specific price, this investment couldn't begin? There were a lot of concerns about archaeological exploration, and although I would be a keen supporter of the bill speeding up investments, I also indicated this to Secretary of State Tasó at the five-party meeting, we also had concerns about the bill that I drafted and which archaeologists indicated to us. I have also anticipated this at the five-party meeting that we still have to talk to them. If archaeologists don't have enough money, if we don't give them enough time to explore, then it's natural to destroy the tangible memories that the construction of road construction and infrastructure investments could jeopardize. In this way, unfortunately, the Jobbik fraction is obliged to express its opposition to the bill with one abstention, although this attitude could normally be supportive. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-112	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, who will also give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-04-29-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I cannot give a positive opinion on the bill before us. The proposal before us is yet another proof that today direct daily economic interests guide decision-making, for which the rules and institutions previously negotiated, which protected the long-term interests of society, such as our universal cultural and environmental values, are consciously eliminated step by step. I apologise, but at this point, I cannot help noting that the US-EU and Canada-EU free trade agreements are also in this line. As a result of the roll-out of short-term economic interests over the past few years, the almost complete institutional system of environmental protection has been destroyed, expertise has been neglected, and the reduction of such higher education has also been mentioned, and further weakening of the legal system has now been on the agenda. At the same time, perhaps out of decency, no one in the governing lead team dares to say that environmental protection is an obstacle to competitiveness, because this should be an irrefutable fact that our environment is the foundation of the main public good, our life, our past, our present and our future. However, the proposal can be demonstrated to put group interests ahead of the main public good, since Article 52 states: Paragraph 4 of Section 4 states that in the case of investments of major importance for the national economy, consistency with the public interest must be presumed. Dear Parliament, This presumption is false. For as long as there are unquestioned public goods, such as the good quality of the environment, which is essential for everyone, it is good for the rich, poor, young and old, the present and the future, there are mixed and private goods that can be excluded from the use of others and even harm the larger community. In the case of transport infrastructure, it can be demonstrated that, as long as its direct users benefit from it, the damage they create is a negative externality, i.e. the external cost of the activity, the whole of society. The negative ecological impacts of road infrastructure, in particular motorways, are indisputable. Among these, the most important are the inability to operate the ecological network, the fragmentation and isolation of habitats, the change of habitat patterns, the role of roads in the spread of alien species and weeds and the destruction of billions of living things due to collisions with motor vehicles. We don't usually think about that. The direct and indirect costs of air pollution, loss of biodiversity, loss of land, lack of ecological services in occupied areas, health damage, maintenance and renewal of end-of-life infrastructure must be borne by society as a whole. Moreover, its effects are limited not only to the present, but also to the future, meaning a payment order for future generations. In the case of the development of the road network, it is therefore not the main question of which section of the road will follow, but of how, and how much, the combined environmental burden on the whole road network will increase. I would like to stress that there is virtually no solution to avoid these burdens, with the environmental burden of each newly built meter road added to the already existing burden. We have to deal with that, and we need to know where the line is. That is why we stress that we do not need to build new roads, but to renovate those who are in poor condition, especially on three and multi-digit roads. [[15.20]] Paragraph 1 states that in the case of investments of major importance for the national economy, consistency with the public interest must be presumed. Dear Parliament, This presumption is false. For as long as there are unquestioned public goods, such as the good quality of the environment, which is essential for everyone, it is good for the rich, poor, young and old, the present and the future, there are mixed and private goods that can be excluded from the use of others and even harm the larger community. In the case of transport infrastructure, it can be demonstrated that, as long as its direct users benefit from it, the damage they create is a negative externality, i.e. the external cost of the activity, the whole of society. The negative ecological impacts of road infrastructure, in particular motorways, are indisputable. Among these, the most important are the inability to operate the ecological network, the fragmentation and isolation of habitats, the change of habitat patterns, the role of roads in the spread of alien species and weeds and the destruction of billions of living things due to collisions with motor vehicles. We don't usually think about that. The direct and indirect costs of air pollution, loss of biodiversity, loss of land, lack of ecological services in occupied areas, health damage, maintenance and renewal of end-of-life infrastructure must be borne by society as a whole. Moreover, its effects are limited not only to the present, but also to the future, meaning a payment order for future generations. In the case of the development of the road network, it is therefore not the main question of which section of the road will follow, but of how, and how much, the combined environmental burden on the whole road network will increase. I would like to stress that there is virtually no solution to avoid these burdens, with the environmental burden of each newly built meter road added to the already existing burden. We have to deal with that, and we need to know where the line is. That is why we stress that we do not need to build new roads, but to renovate those who are in poor condition, especially on three and multi-digit roads.(15.20) On the one hand, due to the magnitude of minor damage caused by a renovation and cheaper. On the other hand, the renovation of the lower roads would help the local economy, staying in place to reduce the costs of local farmers, faster delivery, lower consumption, lower depreciation. On the wrong, almost untraceable roads, the vehicles of those who live the worst are the fastest. Although environmental damage may arise, it doesn't matter how big and where. It doesn't matter how we cut up our natural habitats with new roads, and how the extra environmental burden will affect people's health directly or indirectly. Unfortunately, environmental inspections are often only a justification, but they are needed, not only because they are declared by domestic legislation based on Community directives and regulations. However, the proposal before us attempts to circumvent environmental inspections, more commonly known as strategic environmental studies. While the environmental assessment of each project is clarified in the environmental impact assessment, the combined environmental impact of the road network would be explored by the strategic environmental assessment of each programme and plan. The strategic environmental assessment aims to examine, within a larger framework, the expected combined effects of different projects at the level of programming documents. However, even this less effective instrument is being avoided by the proposal before us, which seeks to justify the road investment, which the government has designated as a priority, by subsequently modifying the means of settlement. In other words, measures which cannot be the subject of a strategic environmental assessment may be included in these plans subsequently, provided that such measures have been taken at all. I quote you, six. § G 13. : If necessary due to the investment in transport infrastructure, settlement arrangements developed in accordance with the requirements of the national settlement and construction requirements legislation in force on or before 6 August 2012 may be modified until 31 December 2018, the draft states. With the system of priority investments, the government creates and creates an opportunity for itself to force its will to other levels of decision by taking formal legal action. This is to be ensured by the government commissioner appointed for project coordination, who, acting on behalf of the power, ensures the enforcement of the higher will. However, the legal oversight of local authorities is also able to deal with the case in order to ensure that local settlement plans are modified by the deadline, even if they are despite the local decision level. According to the draft, the Government may designate, in the regulation, issues related to transport infrastructure investment which are of major importance for the national economy, in view of the public interest in the very rapid implementation of transport infrastructure investment. At the end of 2014, 240 transport development projects were under way across the country in the context of an investment of national importance. The question now is whether there is an investment that is not like this, and whether these cases are always so urgent. Is it urgent to build an expressway that will trigger a main road on which we hardly meet a vehicle? The results of the national road cross-section traffic census in 2013 and the last five years of traffic counting show a significant decline in most vehicle categories in the tested sections. Car traffic decreased by 10.2 percent, truck traffic decreased by 15.9 percent, bus traffic for road transport in the Community did not change, motorcycle traffic decreased by 10.7 percent, bicycle traffic increased by 18.5 percent. Obviously, 2014 will change these data upwards due to low fuel prices, but we know this is only temporary. Dear Parliament, From the data, you can see that the need and the need are far from each other. A government responsible for the future would be expected not to generate needs, but only to meet needs, especially in view of the insurmountable environmental problems facing future generations, even meeting needs. Unfortunately, short-term development interests have always contributed to the recovery of the main public good, and this conflict has led us to the fact that today we are talking about an ecological crisis. All this proves that, overall, the rules so far have been inadequate to protect the common good. Of course, no one believes that we are in favour of excessive bureaucracy, lengthy procedures, and the impossibility of authorisations. We are speaking against an approach, against the approach that puts group and private interests before the service of the common good, and also by creating a false ideology to explain its position. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds. Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-29-114	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I am now giving the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the speakers who have signed up. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-29-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you're here, Secretary of State, because he's from Hajdú-Bihar County, just like I am. I'd like to talk about one subject, this is the section of the M4 shut down between Abony and Gun. Although I asked questions to Minister János Lázár last week, I would like to repeat some of the answers he made there and also to put further questions to the Secretary of State. Here, when we talk about the M4, we forget that we are not only talking about Szolnok, but also about the construction of the further section of the M4 and let me talk a little bit about the section of Hajdú-Bihar County, too. If we are talking about Route 4, it should be pointed out here that this is one of the busiest roads in Hungary, and perhaps we can say that there is the most serious accident, injury accident or often death accidents in these sections. I asked the Minister when they knew that the European Commission was objecting to the construction of this section, how they thought that if they stopped building this section now, how it would continue, when it would happen, and what would happen to this investment at all. I would like to quote what János Lázár said at the time to one of my questions: on the other hand, the European Commission considered it important, as he documented in writing last week, for some HUF 100 billion, to implement this road construction, and on the third, the European Commission's regional directorate-general indicated on several occasions the Cartel Banner Road between 31 October 2013 and April 2014. There are many questions about the words of John Lazarus. If the European Commission has constantly challenged the budget for this section of the road, how could it have been, Mr Secretary of State, that in 2014 the budget for this section of the road, at the request of Viktor Orbán, was still completed by HUF 60 billion if they knew that the original cost had already been contested by the European Union? [[15.30]] It is then assumed that the government was aware that it would never win an EU resource for this part of the road, and yet it was constantly communicating to people, even with a board confirming that it would be funded by the EU. In essence, the investment costs of this phase have been constantly increased for many years. The question arises as to whose responsibility it is, whose actual responsibility it is to stop this phase. The other news that has come to light these days is that it could cost hundreds of millions of forints to guard this section and preserve the so-called investment phase that has been built. I ask how this will be financed, Mr State Secretary, because the budget for this year's budget - although this is the answer I have received - has not planned any funds, which is why they had to terminate the contract with the contractor. How will they finance the preservation, guarding and related costs? My second question is that the Minister said in his reply that they are working on, because we are not only talking about Szolnok County, but we are talking about the renewal of further sections, namely the county of Hajdú-Bihar and the neighbourhood of Bishop's Lady, to achieve the construction of these sections with a reduced technical content. What does that mean? What does this reduced technical content mean? And what is very, very important is that Viktor Orbán walks the counties, walks the county-righted cities, and promises four-track roads and motorways everywhere, to every county-righted city. I believe that Viktor Orbán spent the funds for road development for 30-40 years in advance in 2015. I would like to ask you when Viktor Orbán will tell you in the county of Hajdú-Bihar that the M4 will continue. Not with reduced technical content, but originally, as planned, and in such a way that this motorway M4 becomes a road where we will not be able to tell the statistics that I have asked the Minister on this matter. The other thing I would like to say to you, as a member of the county of Hajdú-Bihar, is that I would like to ask you, as Minister of State of Hajdú-Bihar County, not only for road development in your own district, but also for road development in the other districts as important as you represent your own area. I really wanted to put these problems in front of you. I would like to add one more thing I wanted to say days ago: this is the development of the railway. I have asked a number of written questions about what is happening in Hungary today in railway development, or what conditions prevail within the MÁV. All I would like to ask the Secretary of State is whether everyone in Hungary can receive the same service for the same amount of money they have purchased. I can explain why I'm asking this question. When the replacement ticket was introduced on the railway, several months later, I asked how much of this money had been made and how much it would be spent. Then I was told that, in about a year, the State received an extra HUF 1 billion in revenue from the MÁV in connection with the introduction of the additional ticket, and that these were spent on railway car development, renovation and the purchase of new railway wagons. Then they sent me the details of the cars they bought, and they also sent me the number of cars they had renovated, and I was shocked to learn that suburban flights had been developed to the greatest extent. I know that Hungary is the capital of Budapest, but I do not think that they pay the most in proportion to the price of spare tickets. And the other thing is that we are very happy that there are very nice new railway cars on suburban flights, and I would just like to ask the Secretary of State that the development of the East-Hungarian railway line is at least as important, and I would also like to say the development of services here, because there are terrible conditions if I say only the Budapest-Záhony line, but I could also say the Miskolc line. I rightly represent that we expect the same service for the same money that people pay on suburban flights or on flights to Budapest as we experience in Eastern Hungary or on some railway lines in Western Hungary. I hope that we will get answers to these questions. I am not waiting for an answer, Mr. Secretary, because I do not want to wait for it, I have only a programme to go to, but Congressman Józsa will give it to me, and if he does so in writing, I would be very happy to see the answers to these questions, because I think that it is very important for both of us, as people in East Hungary, to have answers to these questions. And I would very much ask the Secretary of State not to have to wait years for the problem of the M4 to be resolved, not to have to read the statistics in the walls of this House again, like the ones I read here to the Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-29-116	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP.
u2015-04-29-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will start with the fact that my MSZP fellow Member mentioned the need for road development in Hajdú-Bihar county, and I will only say this as an interesting fact - because of my age I remember many things - that I found their 2006 election promise when they said that in 2006, if the MSZP won, they would build the M4 motorway throughout. This was signed by János Bones on his 2006 poster. [[Interjection.]] I'm just saying, maybe there were four years when that could be done. However, in order to agree on something, it is the backwardness of the railway network and the need or necessity for infrastructure development that can indeed make substantial progress. Our party's position was pretty much explained by our lead speaker. I would like to add a few other things, because I would like to know why: why is it necessary? Fidesz's lead speaker talked for 15 minutes about how this accelerates construction. I certainly believe the lead speaker that this is really speeding up, and everything is getting faster, but what I'm interested in is why this is necessary, so why is it good for the highways to get faster? This is interesting because at the beginning of the two thousand years, when the Structural Funds were launched in Hungary, we have already addressed these issues. It was a different kind of government, and it was also very fond of motorways, and I felt a little bit like we were jumping back in time for 15 years. In 2002, Péter Medgyessy and Viktor Orbán argued on television about who had built more motorways, who had stolen more of this motorway-building money, and this was a serious debate to compete with the parties that had the chance at that time. The conference was called "Right into the dead end"? With these highway constructions, and I don't know what has changed since then, but in any case some things are worth recalling. The use of the Structural Funds after accession to the European Union has taken place in different countries in different ways, and the example used by Ireland, for example, has been very interesting. Unlike many other countries, Ireland has done what it has done to invest 80 percent of its structural funds in building a knowledge-based society, thus developing the human sphere, building a knowledge-based society and putting only 20 percent of it into infrastructure. On the other hand, Portugal wanted to use 70 percent of it for infrastructure, and it made a lot of roads and a lot of constructions from these funds. Then what did the next few years show? The Irish economy has begun to soar under the name "Irish Miracle." And what did the Portuguese show? It's starting to collapse. Now, for a while, I was very surprised at this, because it was like a story about ants and crickets, that one works hard all day, the other only plays the violin, and then winter comes, and they both die. The global economic crisis came in the second half of the two thousand years, and the economies of both of them have fallen significantly, but what do we now experience? The fact that Ireland has already stood up, Ireland has been restored, while for those farms where the infrastructure was only developed, the human background required for its functionality has not allowed the economy to recover more rapidly. That is why I say that the question to me is clearly why I need it. The ecological and sustainability aspects that should be taken into account here have been fully addressed by my fellow Member, Mr Schmuck, and I would therefore like to share with you, if you will allow me, just a few previous studies and international experiences. Obviously, not only Hungary is struggling with this issue of how important the development of motorways and motorways is, but a lot of international research has also dealt with it. [[15.40]] Among other things, in the early 2000s, there was a SACTRA report - an English acronym - that looked for answers to four main questions. The first question was whether the development of transport, such as the construction of new roads, would necessarily lead to the recovery of the economy. They looked at all the countries of the European Union and looked at how local employment had changed and what had happened in places where a new road was built. You could look at this right now, say, along the M3, from the beginning of Heves County, what effect it had, so after Gyöngyös, if we leave it. You can see a number of areas next to the M6, so if you leave about these settlements that are still almost agglomerational. You need to see if different settlements show these better results. This report said: no, there is no automatic connection, because the nature of the road depends on everything. Sometimes the motorway is beneficial, and sometimes it is detrimental to the development of the local economy. This is very, very important because Fidesz has said on several occasions in the last one-year cycle that it wants to invest a lot of energy and resources in the local economy and local economic development. It is due to the nature of small and medium-sized enterprises that they are trying to build on local needs. They are trying to create a local market perspective and respond to it as a small employer. These motorways bring nothing but competition from elsewhere at a lower cost, therefore they could pose a threat to small and medium-sized enterprises. If we look at what is one of the most important options for local food supply, it is to try to produce as much as possible on the local market. All that you are criticizing and your policy makers are saying that what you can get at Tesco in Auchan and in all these shops that have settled in the small areas is a threat to the local economy. And they exist in motion and mobilization, and they need to have continuous movement. The second question in the report was: can economic development and transport development be separated? The answer was also national, i.e. from an EU perspective: yes, removing market distortions, fixing prices generally improves transport, economic efficiency more than building new roads. So we have the economic opportunity not to develop the network of roads, but rather to put this resource in the local economy. The third question that has been examined is: do the current sales methods reflect the economic impact in a realistic way? The answer was: no, the current cost-benefit analyses are clearly flawed, and they also assume perfect market relations in cases where there is no real connection between the development of the road network and the economy. Once again, the road network in Hungary is already an opportunity to carry out local and local studies. That's what you need to see. To see if the M3, if we look at it, would have brought this development everywhere, or would it have made it possible only at a local point. You can see the M5 through the M6 through where this meant significant progress, because it would make it easier for all of us to make an opinion on it. Do sales methods change with regard to new roads and road network development? Yes, sales are based on real facts, not just supposed free competition, but the free movement of goods is facilitated by improvements. The question is, is that a goal? The question is what future Fidesz thinks of the Hungarian economy with the authority of Hungarian society. If you want to move the goods and say that the Hungarian economy and industry must grow abroad, then the roads make sense. If you say that this is not necessary, and it would be good for the Hungarian economy and industry to try to provide a local market in response to local needs, then this construction is much less necessary. It's your decision because you govern. If they go in a direction that they say is contrary to, so not towards the local economy, then it makes sense to develop the road network, but if they maintain their original direction, which the ministers have often talked about here, how they will develop it in the coming periods, then we must think about it. Professor Phil Goodwin, who led this entire research programme in the EU, found that unlimited growth in transport could become a brake on economic development. It is impossible to raise the amount of money needed to create the infrastructure for increasing traffic. Thus, congestion and environmental damage are unbearable and economic development cannot be achieved. It is only interesting to say that not only did international research deal with this, but at the time of the first Orbán government in the Hungarian academic sector, in the framework of the strategic environmental impact assessment of the Széchenyi Plan's motorway development programme, Professor Sándor Kerekes and Károly Kiss dealt with these issues in the framework of the strategic research of the Academy of Sciences at the turn of the millennium, and they said that these road networks did not bring about the expected economic development. The report concluded that, based on the experience gained so far, there is no evidence that the existence of a motorway is an economic recovery, but that there is no such effect on the road network of motorways, which has been built at a greater distance, which affects less developed areas. [[János Pócs: It's a good thing you wrote it down, because...]] It is not an urgent need to increase the country's tourist transfer capacity even further, on the contrary, the quality service of less tourist demand levels may help keep tourists and increase their share of these revenues. These are the research commissioned by the Orbán Cabinet, not analysis, nothing to do with it. This is the first Orbán cabinet he ordered, the Academy did, and that's what he said. Obviously, you can argue with him, I'm not saying you can't make mistakes in the scientific sector. In principle, though, I would assume that all those who deal with this in a scientific way may have greater competences than a politician. This 20-year-old withdrawal - what the Orbán Cabinet is doing now, going back to compete with what is happening - clearly shows how these can affect the purity of public life. Even - I apologize - you may like this - the 2006-07 investigations, when it wasn't your regnating government, said that in the development of the highway and expressway network, we would have to count on corruption costs of between 14 and 37 percent per kilometer. I don't know if this has changed, but in the implementation of the M4 it may arise with regard to the EU's objections that if we build one of the most expensive motorways in the Union, we will not have the same trends. That's the problem, and I don't want to hurt you, because you may be left out of this party, and that's why you don't know it's true, but it's possible that the cost of these road developments usually contributes to the destruction of faith in public life. It is also very interesting that my KDNP fellow Member, Earth Member, said that without motorways, the region in Cegléd is impossible. What I wanted to know was if the Member still took part in the debate on what speedy distribution had brought. Because after the construction of the fast traffic, the exodus from that area accelerated. So the question is whether the economic revival effect of the previous expressway has occurred. Has GDP increased in the region? You have to look at it, because the statistics do not support this, just as demographic data do not support this, but support the fact that the fast-track network has been built, and then the exodus from that region of the country has started as from everywhere else. So there is no proof that the country is indeed impossible here. Once again, we see that we are experiencing the opposite of the promise of the local economy with this implementation. In Fidesz's keynote speech, it was said that the various impact assessments and research activities constitute a misuse of rights, and this is the activity of slowing down, which is why, among other things, it is necessary for the environmental permit to be valid for ten years instead of five years. It is very difficult for me to believe that someone with common sense believes that environmental aspects cannot change in ten years. Five years is also a terribly long time, and environmental factors change completely in a year. To be good for ten years, I don't think it makes any sense. If there is a misuse of rights, I think there is also a misuse of governance, because such arguments are, unfortunately, an indication that this is something that is intended to be implemented at all costs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The public interest is not contested. I would most like to talk about this with all of you, Mr President. We would not be talking about whether this will achieve acceleration or not, because I acknowledge your intention that this codified text will achieve acceleration. I am curious whether this is good for Hungarian society; whether they have considered this in favour of speeding up, whether this really brings those hopes. Basically, Hungarian society loves road network development and awaits motorways. Believe me, I'm not speaking with such a suicidal attitude against motorway development to make LMP politically worse, because I know that society has a need for it. I want us to be able to talk about this as if we were talking at a two-poo chicken food festival, making arguments, and convincing me that this is gonna be good. Because there is no research to support the fact that the expectations in this regard are real in the course of economic development. At the same time, you, all of you here, are now representing Fidesz, come from small settlements and rural areas, where the state of the three-digit, but even the two-digit roads is quite depressing. [[15.50]] So if we develop in the road network and look for the opportunities that can be used from the Cohesion Fund for this purpose - because our hands are not so tied that it can only be used for this, as my MSZP fellow Member has said, it is worth thinking about how much money we make for this - then we need to look at how we make people's lives easier. There is also a systematic argument in favour of these improvements that this will help to mobilize the workforce. The need for labour mobility arises when a government cannot manage the labour market locally and can not create jobs locally. You say that this will be dealt with in the next EU cycle. If this is the case and the development of the local economy is achieved, the acceleration of road network development can best serve transit purposes and speed up the outflow of resources from the Hungarian countryside. I think that you do not want to do this, but you do not assess where the real socio-economic effects of this will be. I would ask you to continue our dialogue on this, why this is necessary, and then to talk about whether we need to speed up. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-29-118	I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2015-04-29-119	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As Chief Speaker, I could not express the thoughts I intended to express as an individual electoral representative. I think that I will also partially answer some of the questions that have been asked. Firstly, perhaps I would like to answer Mr Sallai R. Benedek as to why the construction of motorways needs to be accelerated. Dear Member, if you were to live your life as an individual Member of Parliament in the southern or eastern part of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, where I live, you would know that the people who live there have been waiting for more than 20 years to travel by expressway. It's not because they want to speed, it's because it's dangerous to travel either on Route 4 or on Route 44. I must be honest with you, I think it's entirely legitimate that if you leave for work in the morning or if your next of kin goes out, you can wait for him at night and not be afraid of whether he survives the journey, either on Route 4 or on Route 44. What's in it for you? I think it's a huge benefit now that once they're on these two roads, once they're on the expressway, there won't be more fatal accidents every week than there are now. I think that's a huge social advantage. So even if there's nothing else, I think that's why we need to build these highways. And why do you need it as quickly as possible? We need to get this road safety as quickly as possible. It is also necessary to build this highway to Kunszentmárton, the capital of Tiszazug, or Mezezőtúr, to mention only two cities, while the investors arrived, but they went further, because they said that by the time they drove away from here to the next expressway, their business would simply be ruined. They cannot afford this, it is important for them to be able to get out of the site as quickly as possible and move the goods as quickly as possible. This can't be done either on Route 4 or on Route 44. So why do you need to speed it up? I think that's why. I hope that the proposal that the government has just tabled will actually speed up investment, because you will support it, so that these roads will be completed as soon as possible. That's what the residents are asking for, by the way. They want this trip as soon as possible. I am pleased that on the part of the MSZP Ildiko Bangóné Borbély we finally agree on something, namely the need for these roads as soon as possible. As I understand it, he also urges that part of Hajdú-Bihar County, the area around Bishop's Lady, and from there to the border, be able to enter the expressway as soon as possible. I trust you will support the adoption of this law with your vote, not only did you give a campaign speech to stop Route 4. I am pleased that I asked myself, or asked Dr. Ildiko Bene, with my colleague, Minister János Lázár about the M4 road, and assured us that a decision will be made at the May government meeting to continue. That's what I trust. I am sure that it is in the interests of both the inhabitants of the region and of all of us if these roads, whether in my district, once again, are completed by road 4 or 44 or by other planned motorways in the country as soon as possible. I find it odd that Jobbik's position, who wants everything to speed up, but he's actually staying, because it's not going to speed up. I do not understand the suggestion that it is also wrong to win a Hungarian enterprise and it is also wrong to be a foreigner. It is a special picantria when the Member talks about the fact that these investments are actually for western European purposes and not for Hungarian people. If you were an individual constituencies representative, you would know that the Hungarian people would like to travel safely, as I said at the beginning. They don't care about which multinational company's cars are on a road like this anyway. The important thing for them is that they, when they leave, can travel safely, either by the way, small entrepreneurs, Mr Sallai, can transport their goods, say, to Budapest markets. It's a very important thing. So I'm asking everyone to take into account the public's request. The public's request is to build these infrastructure investments as soon as possible and not to go on for years. I still remember - to talk about railway construction - that when I became mayor, the plan for the renovation of the Saiol-Békéscaba railway line was already underway. They've already worked there, that's how it's gonna be, and that's how it's gonna be. And I was no longer mayor when they handed over this renovated railway line. It took over 20 years. It also shows that it has not become so slow under the Fidesz government, unfortunately it has been this way for the last 25 years, and probably even before. It is precisely time for these procedures to accelerate. I believe that they would like impact studies on the results of such an investment. Once again, I think that the greater the result than saving lives, the greater the result does not have to be achieved or achieved, but I think that is already a huge achievement. Everyone knows that driving by expressway is safer than being on an overcrowded highway like today's Route 44. I'm sorry, I'm gonna go see who said what, so I can react when I have the word. I would say to Mr Sallai that I continue to see meaning in the construction of these roads. And I really don't want you to tell people what the LMP represents, that we don't need these highways because they're jamming the environment. That is what I understood from the Member's comment. I'm sorry, that's the thing, and I think we need to build roads to fit the environment. However, there is also a need to be careful not to delay important investments in environmental protection. I remember an investment that lasted for years because of environmental concerns, and when this environmental concern was solved with a simple method, with a transplant, it could be completed in seconds. But as to whether those plants could be transplanted from the place where they were found at about ten square meters, whether or not they could be transplanted, they argued for a year. I think that these things need to be speeded up, that's why acceleration is necessary. I would ask everyone who thinks that the Hungarian population should be able to travel safely, to improve the Hungarian economy, to support the rapid construction of the investments that await construction in this country in the following year, and to travel from each major city to Budapest or to the border as quickly as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-29-120	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-29-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond quickly to the suggestions made by a happy Member. First of all, this is the negotiating basis: Let's withdraw this law, let's start negotiating. I think you're right. There's a need for speed traffic. I think so much that, among other things, I submitted this as a budgetary amendment, but Fidesz voted against it. Among other things, in connection with the M44, I asked for it to happen as soon as possible at Kunszentmárton. You voted against all my amendments, this too. I wasn't arguing about speed traffic. For example, I was arguing with the new trails. By putting 600 billion, let's say, on new roads with some kind of high-speed or other highway that could be solved. [[16.00]] I am saying that I will support your initiative right now - to favour my fellow MSZP Member - to build up its rapid circulation of 4 to Debrecen. But I'm not going to support the M4 building on a completely new track, next to a high-speed highway 4 in parallel, because it doesn't make sense, because it doesn't help anything. I marked this M44 in Kunszentmárton, for which I submitted a budget amendment, but it was a little self-goal. No changes. So it is very, very important that when we talk about people and human lives and the dignity of travel, then let's talk about the development of the railway, about how it can be best. Because you know that there is a statistically greater chance that if we travel by rail or by public transport, we will be more secure. But at the moment, in major areas of Eastern Hungary, you know very well that you cannot travel with human dignity, under normal conditions, because this sector is not developed. That's what you put a source in. We'll agree on that, too. So dialogue makes sense, because we find the common points that we have. They can deliver to Budapest markets. The question is, how do you visualize Hungary's future, because if the future is to increase Budapest from 2 million to 3 million and even more distract the countryside, then this is necessary. But if they have a vision of keeping the workforce in the countryside as much as possible, that will not be necessary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-29-122	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not a simple issue, in my view, because it cannot - at least I think - approach this issue from the same direction. You can't just treat it as an infrastructure road development issue, because if you look at it this way, I think you can make a lot of wrong decisions. I think there are at least two other factors, but there may be many more factors that influence this or are organically related to all of this. For example, the existence or absence of intellectual infrastructure. The existence or non-existence of technological infrastructure. Or, just after the lack of these infrastructures, could there be a technological development of the existence of new development infrastructure that was not native to specific areas? So, how and how does the government directly enter into these processes in the sense that it is linked to business promotion processes? I think it's more complex than just thinking one way to say yes or no: do you need road development somewhere or don't you need road development somewhere? Of course, I am more of the opinion that, if and if possible, there is a need to improve road infrastructure. This, of course, should not be thoughtless, reckless, and should not be uninterested in a way that ignores the views of people in the region. That's part of the story. I do not want to open it in more detail, but I would just like to say that I have found that if, in due course, improvements in new development and road infrastructure were made - in due time - in other words, certain technologies have not been dismantled, rebuilt, and the existing intellectual infrastructure has not left the area, or if it has remained, if appropriate, adapted to the relevant technology, this infrastructure road development, infrastructure thinking and action has benefited. If the technical background or the associated intellectual infra-fra-tion has already been empty, road development has not been able to reverse or explicitly reverse these processes. So, in my view, its timing and its adaptation to the specific features of the regions are a very important issue. He gave an interesting explanation in the keynote speech of my fellow Member, János Volner, on the self-serving and self-interest of European businesses in the use of EU funds. I understand the logic, but I'd like to add two thoughts. At the end of 2012, at the beginning of 2013, there are 961-962 thousand businesses in Hungary. Of which 869 is the number of enterprises not in the SME sector. In other words, 99.9 percent of businesses appear as SMEs, under 250 employees. And maybe even another rougher number, which shows that 5547 is just the number of businesses with over 50 employees. Between 860 and 870 were the number of enterprises present as employment places of over 250 persons. I said these few numbers so that we could think about how the reasoning that was discussed was, how good or correct it was or how forward it was. In my view, infrastructure developments in this sense are not necessarily only in the interest of foreign investment firms; they are far from, rather, in the interests of Hungarian SMEs or SMEs, since 99.9 percent of all companies are in this area. That's one part of it. The other part is that if we make a distinction between companies and companies - I do not respect nor wish to protect anyone in this regard - that road-building companies or car-making companies, there is a problem. A week or two ago, we were in a committee meeting with President János Volner, where representatives of automotive companies and suppliers participated. These companies, companies other than suppliers, are foreign-owned companies, and there we believed, together and collectively, that we consider their presence to be very important, that we consider their development, investments and that they consider their existence in Hungary to be stable in the long term. What I'm trying to say - not even that it's difficult to use a car without road construction - is that I don't think it can be approached through professional distinctions. And I really don't want to deal with what kind of profit they make and get out of the country, if any. I'm sure they'll get you out. These must either find the appropriate restrictive condition in the quotation mark or the stimulating effect of why it is worth reinvesting and investing in Hungary again. But the point of the matter - to bring back the first thought of this logical reasoning - is that this type of infrastructure development, in my view, outside the population, who, by confirming the statement of my fellow member, is obviously able to use these road surfaces more safely, can also serve the interests of more than nine hundred thousand companies in all Hungarian SME sectors. Of course, I will once again go back to the idea of moving very carefully and carefully when designing the construction of designated road surfaces, simply because I think it is necessary to examine the existence of existing intellectual and technological infrastructure, or to examine how and how new technologies can be created in addition to, at the level of, and near those road surfaces, in order to introduce new technologies, the kind of intellectual infrastructure - or not only intellectual but also technological infrastructure - which means real exploitation of these new roads and road networks. Moreover, the reasoning of my fellow Member Sallai, which points out that not all road development has economic benefits and returns, is true, because it is true that, where appropriate, it can also give rise to a competitive situation in micro- or perhaps no longer micro-regions or communities where the existence of better-than-the-quote entrepreneurship can be broken by what is related to infrastructure development. [[16.10]] So I don't think it's that simple, it's more complex than that. But the most important thing to think about is that five years is only five years. Five years delay in any respect is a reasonable length of time that can be regarded as a sin. If, for example, yesterday, in the case of public education, vocational training, we are confronted with the idea of what constructive changes this government wants to bring to life after five years, then I think that we have already lost a time interval of one and a half usque, which, say, in terms of vocational training, could have been confirmed in relation to the period of governance of this government. The same is true for road construction and road development, especially if they talk about the six, six and a half years of time, which covers the preparation and preparation periods, which, of course, I think can be shortened in addition to the involvement of a careful farmer. But my biggest problem is that what I see now within the framework of the law, regardless of the law, or in parallel with Orbán's set of promises about his country travel, may not be lucky. I remember the accepted plans for the infrastructure development processes of the period preceding the government change in 2010, for example in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, North-East Hungary. And I remember, after 2010, how everything that had become accepted during the previous government period was swept away, and in the same way that I would have repeatedly referred back to the speech of my Fidesz fellow Member, either in the interests of people or in the interests of businesses in specific areas, or in the areas that are said to be lagging behind. It came off the table in a matter of moments, five years passed, and in the five years, practically these kinds of developmental intentions did not really come up. Now I can see and even hear Miskolc and Ózd's intention to connect, which I think is good, but I think that if we look back at the documentation backgrounds that were adopted within the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and the North-East Hungarian Regional Development Council, and they were supported in principle, because, therefore, the allocation of funds could no longer have happened due to the change of government, how they died in moments and after five years they were returned to the front of thinking at all. So, I think the problem is that, in a given change of government, all sorts of, I think, sensible rethinking, without overthinking, are thrown out, which, in the previous period, has practically been adopted in conjunction with sound argument systems and the collective thinking of citizens, business circles, public bodies and many others. I think that we should get there within the walls of Parliament, regardless of political colour, that there must be some issues for which we must be able to give birth to a social consensus, because that is the only thing that serves the forward. Cases that have a significant impact on our daily lives. How and how the history of intellectual infrastructure should be developed, so what should be done in the education system. That, where appropriate, in relation to this draft law, as regards infrastructure developments in the road network, a logically understandable system of road networks should be developed within the country, which, where appropriate, appears as a motivation factor not only from a transport point of view but also from an investment point of view. And thousands of other issues of this type could be focused, but four or five could surely be found in order to ensure that any change of government will take place in any sense at any time - because life is just like that, I say, to my fellow Members of the Fidesz, too - then be aware that matters which, on the basis of the principle of social consensus, can be placed on the scene of public agreement will continue, because they are not in the interests of certain political forces, but in the interests of society. In fact, this is what I consider to be the most important, and I would certainly like to recall it on this issue. And one more thing I'd like to ask of you. If, for five years, there have been no significant progress in matters such as these, not cases, but many cases, but now a sign of such cases, I could say that doing nothing characterizes the development of the story, but after five years it should not be the rush to characterize it, because in a week or a month's time, what they have not done for five years is obviously not possible to do. So, in addition to a sufficient preparation, and if there is, the opposition, I say with a calm spirit, with its well-meaning attitude, advice, amendments, much more worth integrating into this story, because I believe that everyone is moving forward. Now I'm the one who gave the kind of well-meaning propaganda speech that Fidesz has been happy to use over the last few months to find a common platform. I think we should, but not by talking about it, but by doing it. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-124	I now give the floor to János Volner.
u2015-04-29-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman István Happy, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, you have expressed your incomprehensiveness as to why we do not support this bill if we want to speed up the construction of motorways and other infrastructure investments in Hungary. Mr Congressman, unfortunately, we cannot support this exercise because you never put something good down on the table, but very often you side-pack different things that you simply cannot support. I'll give you an example. At the time, we supported the nationalisation of the private pension fund system by guaranteeing to former private pension fund members in individual accounts that they would retain their assets. You promised this here in Parliament, in this way practically lured out the supporting vote of the Jobbik faction, and it turned out that you lied not only to us, but also to your own voters, because in recent years the Fidesz faction has not guaranteed an individual invoice. As we are learning from such unpleasant experiences, we now say that the advance trust that the vote on such a bill would mean precisely because of the bad parts wrapped in it, we will no longer be able to give this trust to the Orbán government in the future. In the case of private pension funds, a HUF 3 000 billion fortune was stolen by the government, by force nationalising private pension funds, and by repeatedly breaking its own promises, it did not create individual accounts. We will not make such mistakes in the future to vote for you on similar matters. I also think it is important to say that when you talk about why it is a problem for foreign companies to build motorways here, it is because Hungarian companies could also build motorways. And now I ask Mr. Secretary of State Tasó, what chance a Hungarian company has of going through, say, a German public procurement system as a winning highway construction company. What are the chances of a Hungarian enterprise kicking the ball in Germany? Ask yourself this question, and then you will see that there is no chance for a Hungarian enterprise, because the German state makes it impossible for it to work within the public procurement system in the interests of German entrepreneurs. However, as a main contractor in Hungary, the Hungarian company cannot kick the ball, because Strabag, Swietelsky, Colas and similar companies are taking the order from it. So there is a highly asymmetric situation when foreign companies are protected in their own country, and when they come to Hungary, the government opens up a market for them here and allows them to obtain a hundred billion-dollar order stock through the public procurement system. [[16.20]] So this is a very important thing to see. We want at least those activities in which Hungarian industrial capacity remains - such as the construction of infrastructure investments - to be carried out not by foreign companies, but by Hungarian companies after the destruction and cessation of the Hungarian industry. This, I think, is a very simple, very easy-to-understand objective and can be supported by all Members who feel responsible for the country. I also think it is important that this bill, although it is a matter of extensive regulation, does not resolve the concerns that we have repeatedly expressed here in Parliament for many years. Now, if I ask you - there are three fellow Members from Fidesz on the part of one hundred thirty-some of them - how to solve the dilemma of why businessmen from the previous government cycle and in the current government cycle, who belong to the Prime Minister's immediate environment, are the most illustrious of the aforementioned infrastructure investments, then what will be the answer to that? Is it entirely a coincidence that it was Lajos Simicska who had previously received these high-value orders? Is it entirely a coincidence that the Prime Minister's son-in-law's interests are now winning the most money in these public tenders? Is this really a coincidence? 'Cause to be honest, what I'm experiencing when I'm walking around the country, talking to people, is that just as I don't think you do, people don't believe it's a coincidence. It is also an interesting thing whether this bill creates guarantees that when it comes to setting up a major national investment, everyone can get to know the data and the parties of the Parliament can decide on this issue. The proposal goes in the opposite direction: at the level of a government decree, these decisions would be made according to the government's plans, hidden in ministerial enclosed rooms. Are impact assessments being carried out? Does the bill provide that we can learn about these impact studies? He doesn't provide for it. Why, then, are you surprised if such legislative proposals, when the government wants to spend the country's money, EU funds, in the order of a hundred billion, and does not create the verifiableness of this, whether it is worth it at all, whether it is really necessary to install an investment, it simply does not allow Parliament to do so, it does not make it verifiable - of course, that we cannot support it! It is also interesting how these investments are being made, why we object to them. Because, fellow Members, here is the construction of the M4 motorway, I, as a Member of Parliament in the Cegléd region, held several press conferences within my constituency that common sense and professional requirements dictate that we begin to build a motorway on the busiest motorway section. In the case of the M4 motorway, it is obvious that the section between Budapest and Cegléd should have been carried out first, as this would be the most traffic-efficient and cost-effective way of doing this investment first. What does the government do for a living? In the middle of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, a 30-kilometer section begins. On a motorway section that is not connected to a big city, it is not connected to another highway or a circle; in the middle of the wilderness they begin to build a highway suddenly. Well, tell me honestly, is that logical? Professional rules are being trampled on by the government, just in the case of such a high-value infrastructure investment. When I look for the guarantee elements in this bill that can prevent these cases, I cannot find them, fellow Members, because you have not written them. This is precisely why we cannot support these proposals. It is also interesting to see how these large investments take place. I have told my fellow Members several times, in countries with a happier fate, less corrupt, and much richer than Hungary, these investments take place with the government, the operating organisation, using the tools of project management, in meters, in cubic meters, in engineering hours and in other exact units of measurement, expressing how much it costs to build a motorway. I've talked to a professional who has done similar activities, as incredible as it seems, in a simple highway construction, 8,000 workflows are quantified, so much workflow has to be done to get the highway together at the end. Not only do I have to think about mixing asphalt, but also what order of technology needs to be followed, how to water it, and the rest, a lot of things. And will the government use the project management toolbox, these tools, which will make public procurement transparent, make the purchase prices cut off at the end? Nor does the government put this in this bill - of course it cannot be supported this way. I am speaking to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Of course, we do not object to the construction of these investments - and I also consider it important that for Hungarian people, Hungarian companies, these investments are typically good, because they make transport really more convenient - I merely suggested that the European Union is not the driving force of, say, you or I getting to Budapest sooner from our rural home, or, let us say, the Hungarian people, the average people, should travel between two small settlements, but that the European Union is motivated by these investments to build the infrastructure for Western European companies established here. Of course, we can enjoy the fruitage of this, at least ideally so. I was talking about the V0 Railroad Ring. Consider, for example, on this point, Mr President, whether this railway ring, which is being carried out for 360 billion, is intended to be opened for rail freight. If I now ask you or your fellow Members of the Fidesz to list them, please, those Hungarian-owned industrial companies that will fill the railway freight trains in this 360 billion HUF section with goods and Hungarian products, they will not be able to mention such things, because the Hungarian industry has practically been destroyed since the change of the system as a result of untalented governance. We are building it for foreign companies established here, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, taking credit, and selling this railway ring to the country. This must be said in such a case, since it is a matter of clarity. I also think it is important that, when we talk about the payment of subsidies, we should point out that, for example, when professional evaluations were made at the automotive conference, it was important for companies to highlight. They, my fellow Members, did not say that the obstacle to their being here, to the employment of more Hungarians, is that there is not enough infrastructure - three foreign car factories, General Motors, Audi and Suzuki accepted my invitation, and four Hungarian suppliers - they did not object to the infrastructure, but to the availability of the labour force, that there is no labour force in the place where it should be, that the government could not solve the training in the way it was supposed to, and that they could not hire people with noble simplicity, because there is not enough and qualified staff in that area. I also think it is very important to say that, when we talk about these large investments in the transport sector, the TEN-T supports investment in the trans-European transport networks of the European Union. Here, however, given the fact that Eastern Hungary has been mentioned several times and quite rightly, I would like to raise awareness among the fellow Members. If the motorway goes to Eastern Hungary, as the M3 motorway has now at least gone, we will build this motorway, we will carry it to the border, the Romanians will of course continue to build it within the territory of Romania, then if we think in the competitiveness of the Hungarian labour force as the government does now, the lower the price of the labour force, then let us just think about it, that the companies along the Hungarian-Romanian border will be more competitive against us, because the labour force can be at a lower price than in Eastern Hungary, and we will build these investments in such a way that we will actually support the development of the Romanian industry than the Hungarian industry from our tax-paying money, the European Union grants that concern us. [[16.30]] And that is not the case, the reason why it is important is that Hungary competes with the training of the workforce, with the multitude of educated people and not with the low price of the people, because, as we are doing now, the country simply becomes poor. These were the things that I pointed out more than once: the Hungarian people's incomes decreased in euro compared to 2010; in forints, of course, in the ever-weaking forints, we were in decline in euros, and, unfortunately, this is not for the country's welfare turnaround. So I would like the fellow Members to be aware that this issue is much more complex than it seems, in these matters we need much more complex solutions, more elaborate legislative proposals requiring more consultation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-29-126	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll tell you honestly, I expected a much bigger representational activity on my part, because I think this is a very important piece of legislation, and as many of the key speakers have said here, the direction in which we are going may have a very big impact on the development of the Hungarian economy. I promise that I will try to be as brief as I can, but it is good to explore this strategic issue, all the more so, because if Fidesz may need opposition support because of certain fundamental sections of the law, then it would be good if this dialogue were constructive, how we can make it eligible. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, after the defeat in Veszprém - not after his Tapolca, but earlier - said on a Friday broadcast on Kossuth radio that they are learning from defeat at the government and that society does not understand why these rules are necessary and make legislation slower and more transparent. That's all I ask here. So I am not saying that this is all to be thrown out, but that we should continue to have a dialogue on how it would be eligible, how it would be feasible for the opposition to be able to agree with its goals and means. The biggest problem - obviously due to the cohesion funds and the structural funds system - is that the countryside has very little choice. This was the case between 2002 and 2010, when virtually a multitude of mayors said they didn't care how much money the government was stealing from the highway construction, because at least the highway would be here and they wouldn't get anything else. The problem is the lack of dialogue that does not discuss what they want with Hungarian society. Once we ask the settlements what they want: 10 kilometers of motorways here at the border of the settlement, 5 kilometers away, which costs 40 billion, or they might figure out what 40 billion they want to spend on local market development, local jobs and local families, so let's give the municipalities the opportunity to have what they would have in mind. And the reason that this is weird is because with this regulation, we are fundamentally strategically influencing the development of the whole country. The experience at the moment of going somewhere on a highway went on some plan, followed by an international investor - like the last Apollo Tyres - who looks at where the highway is. The factory is set up next to the motorway, so that a settlement has already received a lot of public money because it has received a motorway, and there will also be a huge pile of investments in order to have a job there, and once it has received all these investments, a large company has set up and created a job there, and from then on the municipality will have local business tax revenues, while those where there is no job will also be left behind. And what happens then? There are poor municipalities who do not have local business taxes - there are wealthy people who are on the highway and have received such taxes - who are forced to levy local taxes in land taxes and all other forms so that they can ensure their operation there, thereby making the community living there even poorer. This is a constantly self-exciting process: as we decided on the question, at that moment it begins to go in this direction, and the poor become even more disoriented, while those who are in the right place, because that is how God gave their purpose, even though they can move forward. That is why it is important to discuss where and how this should be done. As I said, I personally signed the amendment when I put the amendment of the M44 speeding up into the budget, which Fidesz voted off. In the same way, I say that I can support a dialogue on negotiating the speeding-up of the M4. We can negotiate how to connect main roads 4 and 3 during the M35, because there are many possibilities - it is practically very difficult to switch from one line to another at the Tisza line to the other, you know that you have to come about to Budapest, to the M0, from then on, if you start to the two directions of the country, you have to go down to the M35 to connect, because there is no connecting path. And if we look at the EU statistics on the lowest income in the country, for example, it may be that the Central Tisza mint or something is blocked because of them, and we do not yet target them in the current design, because now we are just looking at where such a plan was. So this kind of social injustice, which has developed over several decades, was not caused by your reigning government, but by decades of national problems about how the capital has grown, how it has centralized, how the road network has developed, with everything coming to the capital, this could be resolved by a meaningful dialogue on how to proceed. But in order to tell you that we don't just have a problem with the plan, let me be a little constructive. The May Other Politics has a working group on transport policy with professionals, and they said that if I wanted to be constructive, I should also say the positives. So we have to say in practice that it is not possible to agree with opinions that say that the legislation wants to reflect on a real problem; we recognise that this is a real problem. In our experience, re-regulation aimed at speeding up such procedures is justified, but probably with a different solution. The bill would make a number of important amendments, such as the creation of regulations for objects that have not been mentioned in previous laws. But it is important that the status of certain artifacts should also be corrected, and in this connection its obligation to maintain it should also be clarified, such as the case of the unbuilt trenches, which are correctly designated as the works of art. Clear regulation of related utility lighting activities can also help. These are also those that are eligible for us. An important effort is a preliminary and joint consultation on trails, which can help to identify the risks associated with certain track networks; another issue is that it does not list important partners here, but we will discuss this when we talk about negatives. There are a lot of procedural amendments to the legislation in relation to the management of legal transactions linked to the investment, which are not worth detailing, but may be important. For example, the treatment of anomalies that have been mentioned here by the lead speakers: if an actor is not available at the given address; if the procedural issues of the transfer of compensation amounts have not been resolved; the issue of contracts should be simplified. So obviously, our own experts also say that this problem is a real, real problem, but thus packed together, it is something that requires further dialogue. Therefore, without trying to keep up this narrow circle of people still listening to this debate, I must say that the most important need here is to agree on this, to be clarified, and to provide the opportunity for all the opposition's comments on the legislation that are being formulated to be incorporated. And if that were to happen, and once there was a plan that might be developed by some level of consensus, such as in the development of the road network, which would be justified, then it would be possible to send it here, so that the whole Parliament could support it with a good heart, rather than seeing it create new social injustices. I ask the representative of the government to make this possible, because at this moment we are sure that we will not be able to support it, only with substantial and serious changes and with the clarification of a number of strategic plans. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-29-128	I now give the floor to Mr István Happy in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-29-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sallai! I'm glad that M44 has been submitted to the budget, but you know, you can build the M44 when you have its source. The government has made its decision. Once the economy is improving fortunately, the government has made its decision, and if you support with your vote that we can speed up the procedures, then, of course, it will be ready between 2018 and 2020 between Kecskemét M44 and Békéscsaba. So I'm asking for your support, because I think it's very important for the people who live there. It is also important that, let us say, small farmers in Tiszassas can bring their products up to the wholesale market, because they still wear them today, only then they can bring them up much safer. What Nándor Gúr said - I think, Mr President, that some of today's motorways, roads or even railway investments were, by the way, transcend government cycles - what you mentioned, it is quite clear that the Salgótarján-Ozd interconnection route was also a long-standing plan. The problem was that there was no funding, because in 2010 we took over a country in bankruptcy. There is economic growth today, and this is how it will always be, I think. Since these plans have been going very long for decades, this is why it has to be speeded up. Now we hope that if they help us speed up the plans, these investments can be made much faster. [[16.40]] As for my fellow Member, János Volner, look, I understand that you now need to pursue a middle-way policy and change your opinion. Such is the job accumulation of politicians, it is true that I should only give two examples from Szolnok County, that Tiszaföldvár, Jászberény's representative, will sit in the county assembly and receive more salaries from the two places than the mayors of small-time meetings, but this is no longer a problem, they no longer say that. It's the same with speeding up the road. Let's speed up the road construction, but we don't support it, by the way. In fact, we do not support it, but abstain. I understand that. Let them be Hungarian businesses. When a Hungarian enterprise, the Public Machine, or any other, happens to win, we say that it is pro-government, so we do not support it. I understand that. You need a center of reference right now. I would rather ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-130	In two minutes' time, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-04-29-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague István Happy, I was not talking about Salgótarján-Ozd, about Miskolc-Ozd, it's all right, Mr Secretary of State used this. But you will find consistency within the government, sooner or later, which road network development programmes would be highlighted and supported by you on the basis of your wish list. Discussions can then be held at opposition level. But not about that, but I'd rather talk about the fact that, once again, it doesn't seem to be connected, but I think it is very organically. As other Members have said, the existence of intellectual infrastructure is essential. Obviously, thinking without it on any other natural infrastructure, road development is quite difficult. I would like to say, however, that what we have already talked about is essential, however, that the retention of existing, acquired knowledge can only be imagined if, in the case of employment by any employer of domestic or foreign interest, the work that people put on the table is paid a decent wage. So when people have less purchasing power than 2010 for a minimum wage that is far below the minimum wage, and in order to say the five years of economic results behind them, it is not expected that people can be kept, that infrastructure can be assigned, that technological developments are worth doing. No. If that's the case, if that's the case, people will leave the country. It is also the death of Hungary in the long term. Therefore, this needs to be changed. And, of course, it is necessary to consider any such infrastructure development. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Józsa and László Kiss applaud.]]
u2015-04-29-132	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that I would like to speak on account of personal concerns because the state of transport and infrastructure as Members of Parliament and as citizens of Karcag is also very important to me. The question of road 4 has been mentioned here in the past, let me share it with you personally, I am not saying that I have a Calvary, because everyone who lived in that area has lived the same way. I've had the pleasure of commuting between Tatabánya and Karcag every other weekend since I was born. At first, in the back seat of a yellow Wartburg. Back then, my parents told me that if you grew up and you were as old as we were, I'm as old as they were when they said that to me - the highway would be ready by then. After all, the M1 highway was already built. Well, they were wrong. However, they did not experience an election, and I also followed it as a child, where, I think, first of all, an MDF representative and then after that, Mihály Varga promised continuously, but there was a time when Ágnes Vadai, who was in DK and behind me, campaigned on behalf of the MSZP that they would make such serious improvements that the M4 will not only be built to Karcag, but in fact to the Romanian border, and that Berettyóújfalu will extend far beyond. Well, compared to that, 25 years was almost the end of the promise. I always asked myself, in every single election, what kept anyone from doing that. Everyone said that, of course, budget resources must be monitored, and that changes cannot be made during the year, we know that this is written on the wall of the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, that it is not possible to make changes that have budgetary implications, this is such a golden sentence. I accept all these, but in the last 25 years, all political parties and all governments have, by the way, been indebted to this promise. So there were constant promises on this subject. With regard to Mr Happy, I can tell you that you feel the situation as naturally as we do and all of us, residents of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. Although you seem to have said it, and it may have been an accident, that you, as an individual Member, have more sensed it or that you know better than any individual Member what it is. Don't believe that. There is no alternate reality. The individual MEP senses the same thing, and the Member from the list senses the same, because the residents do not really make much difference between the Members of Parliament. If you have a problem, you have something to say, you will seek out all the Members of Parliament who live in your region, because they want help. So believe me, I think that as many people will come looking for me with the problem of the 4th, what happens to the M4 as many of them, let's say Sándor Fazekas, or many even find Mihály Varga, or how many people are looking for you in this connection. You're absolutely right, by the way. So don't believe your own deception that there is an alternate reality between an individual Member and other Members. The population doesn't make a difference. In the same way, they will seek out any MP with any problems. I think you're overthinking this. Of course, we experienced the same attitude in the municipality, and then there were serious disillusionments. If you have just said the county assembly here, the Fidesz president of the county assembly, Sándor Kovács' appearance was the weakest within his own fidesz region. The fact that he was an individual representative and how much he helped as an individual representative shows the results of his election on the ground. You have the specific selection method of choosing, in practice, the President of the county assembly their representatives who have achieved the least of the results achieved. The other is the job hoarding. Looks like you still can't get in your head - I'm sorry to put it in such a gown - that we were talking about the full-time job here. President Novak already told you that in the speech, he told you in person. Now, once again, we say that the job accumulation refers to the full-time job; those you are talking about do not fill this in full-time jobs. So from now on, we have nothing to say to you but the same thing. Maybe we'll print out a little sillabus like this, see what's to understand from the three definitions. Please understand this point of view, which we have said to you for many years now, and we have said for the last time what we need to see behind it. What is interesting, however, was one of the ideas of my fellow Member, János Volner, where to begin to develop Route 4. Indeed, you are absolutely right, the Pest county sections should begin to develop it first. I mean, the fastest way to get to Highway 4 right now, or the government thinks it's probably the fastest way to go is to use the M5 and then the connecting road that leads to Highway 4 Albertirsa. Instead, there is the old Highway 4, which I think, although passing through several settlements, would be the fastest and perhaps the most convenient approach in the airline. And how true my fellow Member Volner's statements are, the statistics support them. Let me quote you from the news portal today. With an upbeat title:.Desztulj magyar - according to the EU authorities, the main road 4 was not busy enough to do a collection in which he continuously surveyed the data of the 2013 traffic count on Highway 4. Four seats were taken into account on the basis of the Hungarian road count. These measuring points are at the 34 km of Monor, at the 103 km of Szolnok bypass, at Sayol 118 and at the 178 km of Bishop's Lady, which he took into account. On this basis, it was concluded that at measurement point 1, Monor, there were 17 881 vehicles per day, of which 14,000 were approximately passenger cars, 2700 vans and nearly 700 trucks. Now, about 70 kilometers away, at the 103 kilometers by Szolnok bypass, there were still 15 524 vehicles a day. So, technically, it hasn't calmed down at all to Szolnok. In fact, if you go a little further than the sections near Budapest, at the point of internal entry, 21,000 vehicles pass through the otherwise single lane 4 highway once a day. [[16.50]] But if we move on, at the further measuring points, and perhaps we can see this as a base value, at mile 118, or Sayol, this area is also known to you and used, because you're also passing by, and you're in the Sajol section, as I'm almost walking there every day, so there were 8619 vehicles here. Basically, at Bishop's, there is a decline after the fork, the daily vehicle traffic falls to 4963. It is of particular interest that the loss rate of trucks is very low. So from Szolnok to Bishop's Lady, the truck traffic that enters and passes is almost a few hundred. This is interesting not only because these are merely figures, but also compared this news portal with the M6, M3 and 8 main road, in the distance of 118 kilometres from Budapest. So in M6 - Tolna county there is this section - 6835 cars/day. So I'm telling you, compared to 8600, it's 6,800. So on Highway 4, once on a lane, technically, I'm not doing the head count fast, but there's still 1,800 more vehicles. In M3 Heves County - this is also interesting - but 23 thousand. So it looks like the M3 has a much higher utilisation rate, by the way. And to say road number eight, we weren't looking at mileblock 118, because it's far away, but we had to look at it in proportion to kilometer 94, 6376 vehicles/day. So we can safely support this, what has been said here, and this is factual, and I can confirm to the MSZP representative that the main road number 4 may otherwise be the busiest main road in Hungary, so it would be absolutely important at least to expand the motorway sections. I thought this was important, because János Volner was absolutely right about the need to manage the expansion and development of this somewhere from Budapest, despite the fact that I, as a resident of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, am very pleased that traffic is accelerated in the areas closer to us, as we know very often that most of the fatal accidents and serious traffic obstacles have occurred not on the sections near Pest, but here on the motorway-related sections of Cegléd Abony-avoiding, Szolnok-avoiding, but unfortunately, for example, Karcag and its surroundings may bring the worst statistics in the county, for example as far as the Karcag avoider is concerned. So it's particularly important. I thought these figures were interesting because they put wordings in front of the Parliament's plenum, from which there is a factual starting point. By the way, the data on the road confirms why this is necessary. By the way, the facial toaster is the mystery that may have developed around the M4 and the Hungarian government and the European Commission have pointed at each other in pointing out the bodies to each other. Here, too, perhaps a healthier, clean communication would have been more credible to the residents, because there is quite a disturbance in the minds of those who live there. But, of course, the goal remains to build these roads in this regard. Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to say to Mr Happy, that I am very pleased that he is, by the way, taking part in the debate and is here all the way. This is also a responsible attitude from the constituencies and from the Fidesz Members of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. I wish we all could have been here, or if only all the Members of this House could have been here where these road improvements concern his city, his area. I think there could be a lot of Members sitting in here, and everyone could tell me why, in his view, it is really important to build these roads, and then we could really have a much deeper, much healthier debate, because a lot of times it seems that we talk side by side. I believe that there will be some reflection here, even factual data. We look forward to further speeches and further developments in the debate. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-04-29-134	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some important things should be cleared up. On the one hand, if you'll excuse me, I have to say that my fellow Member Volner and Jobbik have a tendency to look at the EU in a selective way, so the directions that they think are positive are silent and what they think is negative and what they highlight. This is only important because, if the EU's transport policy is found, we cannot go by it otherwise without describing the five main strategic directions of EU transport policy, which, by the way, is interestingly lacking directions that my fellow Member Volner spoke about. On the other hand, it is stated that support should promote EU integration; the second pillar is to promote cooperation with neighbouring countries; the third is to promote more balanced regional development within countries; the fourth is the protection of human life and the environment; the fifth is an efficient market conform economy. So let's just not pretend that we're not real. This is the Union's development policy. It can be appreciated that this is not good. This is something to argue about, although I do not believe that Parliament is a worthy place, but let us not make false claims. Allow me to remind you that if you walked out to the Árpád 1 tram stop on the bridge, say, on the Buda side, called the St. Ghost Square stop, you could find a sign in connection with the renovation. It was written on the board, in addition to much information, that the European Union paid 91 percent. If you and your fellow Members had organized a demonstration there to see how shameful this was, obviously, let's say you wouldn't have found many followers, but the school where I teach is 100 percent the EU paid for computers that are being taught in IT. I am not saying that everything is perfect for the Union, I am just saying that critics are much better off and the wording is sitting down when we are arguing with reality, not with something imaginary. Similarly, I would not be in the position of my fellow Member, Mr Benedek, because his job is very difficult. We have listened to his vote on the development that will take place here between 2018 and 20, and if my fellow Member Sallai does not support him, then here, if not national death, but surely a little traffic chaos will occur. My apologies to my fellow Member, I am not sure I feel so strongly about his influence, but I apologize if I am wrong about that. [[Sallai R. Benedict: I forgive you.]] Now, I apologize for being ironic about this, but what we are really talking about is that it is really right to negotiate long-term strategic development and transport development laws, let's say, at least by seeking consensus; then that does not work out is obviously another issue. You are very right, my happy fellow Member, when he talks about using wordings that take into account that we are talking about a long development time frame, perhaps even a cross-border time frame. That's why, for example, the chase and campaign you conducted between 2006 and 10 in relation to the Kőröshegy Valley Bridge was a pity. But it's not my place to judge, considering that as a history teacher, I'm sure I won't tell you whether the construction of the valley bridge was useful or not, but as a traveler, I can rarely say that, on the one hand, there is a little depth to be spanned, and on the other hand, it is part of the fact that the final plan of this section was adopted in 2001. That is why it would have been good if, between 2006-10, the kind of critical edge of the then Fidesz had been missing, which criticized this, because it was a development that was otherwise approved by the previous government or by the government prior to that, with technical content. And of course, it is also true here that those who vote in favour of this development now and, where appropriate, will be in a position later to move political activity into opposition space, are obviously less likely to be in a position to criticize it. Everyone has to face that. What has come up in this debate, let us really try to take each other seriously. If it were true that the approach of several of my fellow Members about why only Lajos Simicska's company wins, now we are criticizing this, given that these are Hungarian businesses, so if that were true, then this would assume that these two Hungarian construction companies are operating in this country. What's a strange whim of fate is that for five years, one wins, and now the other wins. Everyone knows that's not true. So obviously, those who suspect corruption behind these are difficult to silence by saying that it is indeed transparent investments, which is a strange whim of fate, that first this, and then that wins, can almost be said to be just these two investments. It's certainly hard to explain. And the system of circumstantial debt, the corruption breath surrounding government construction investments, has been there in the past, which is important for us not to do so. There are countries in Europe where procurement is subject to all other conditions. [[17.00]] For example, in Sweden only companies who enforce Swedish labour rules can win public procurement, so in Hungarian they create working conditions and pay wages as if they were Swedish companies, even if they are international companies. In this sense, I have to say that it is a major deficiency not only in this proposal, but also in the general system of public procurement rules, that we do not enforce any secondary or few secondary things on companies, which would be important to require, whether in terms of equal opportunities or in the creation of Hungarian jobs. We take it as a given that a company creates jobs, but in fact we do not prescribe this as a condition for a Hungarian investment. It would be worth considering for the portfolio later what soft or even tougher rules we use in public procurement for labour policy instruments. Similarly, I do not want to talk long about what is missing from this law, and I really do not want to come with this pride, that, of course, there are different individual representatives and those on the list; I have never been a Member of Parliament on the list, I have also been an individual municipal representative and a lister, I have sensed the difference, but I may be the only one, I do not dispute that. Let me just say that, though. As a districtman, the promise of the northern section of the M0 ring is a little like Santa Claus, that you believe in it for four to six years, and then you realize you don't. Now the people who live there, they believe there'll be a ring, but then it's been four or six years, and we realized it wasn't. A good example of this is that a previous government had an unfinished project, and I apologize for bringing this up, but it may be instructive: the project, the northern city gate, which is about the fact that after the northern section of the M0 ring is completed, a P+R parking system and a service system should be installed for the Fékásmegyeri section of the HÉV, so that the transport of the agglomeration does not come in. And when I really naively asked the wallet what was going on with this, the answer was, what is that, the project? Now, I'm not asking for this because this section hasn't been built before, it hasn't been built in 6-8-10 years, but it really hurts us. Moving on to the bill, and I apologize for wandering away from it, but I feel that this detour was important, as a history teacher, I'm a little concerned about archaeological exploration. I don't think it's a good direction in a previous law to reduce the time for exploration, but the other part is obviously interesting, and I don't want to be one-sided in this matter, because a road construction isn't an archaeological exploration, is it? So if you are building a road or you are making a development, it is not necessarily a road construction, whatever development you are making, then the main goal is to make this development happen and not to push it forward for years or decades. I agree with that. However, it would be interesting to find a balance, because I believe that this regulation is not successful at the moment. The provision of archeological tasks is divided into two parts by regulation. The first is a complete exploration as specified in the permit and the second is a subsequent phase. If the first stage has already been discovered, it will no longer be possible to explore there. It also provides for a special accelerated procedure, which the Minister for Cultural Heritage may decide to require exploration in the event that it is not possible to preserve the discovered artifact without hindering its implementation. This obviously seems understandable and warrantyable, but in the light of your recent shortening of the time for exploration, I feel that the institutions are unable to devote significant energy to the protection of archaeological monuments at present in connection with either a priority investment or a non-priority investment. Right now, we're gonna sweep this problem under the rug a little bit. I met a very kind classmate of mine, an excellent archeologist colleague of mine, who was also a student of class III. My district voter, I asked him where he worked, he was Dr., so he was a serious scientist, but he says he's a teacher. I was surprised at that, and I asked him why. He said it's because he had a job to pull out a drawer, and what's there is cataloging it. The reason for this is that unfortunately, museums whose task would be to carry out these discoveries, for which you gave less time than before, by the way, I do not think that was enough either, well, so these museums simply do not have enough human resources to evaluate these findings. So there's one or two people who really just have to make sure that whatever they've ever found on a construction site is labeled what it is. So it's not about evaluating an artifact that this artifact is a very important Sarmatian treasure or a seventy-third Roman denarius, so it's not about that, it's just that we understand what happened. And given that the public collections are in this state, unfortunately, so the expectation is that the museums will do this promptly and quickly, so that the investment can work smoothly, is too great in many cases. That is why I think it is very important that we take care of this area significantly more than we do at present and than usual. And I don't think, by the way, that this is a prehistoric crime that no one has done before 2010, because if you think about it, it's traditionally the way that people who are interested in development, road development, any infrastructure development, think a little bit about it, well, there are ruins, who cares, who is a philosopher like me, and who thinks that these ruins are there, how beautiful they are, well, that road, it's not that interesting. But somewhere, however, the situation is that there is a need for balance. I feel like they're doing a little bit of a job. Reality is not about protecting these treasures. I understand that there are treasures that can be buried, stored for posterity, that someday we'll open it up, and then the freeway can go. But I fear that the correct, professionally thoughtful assessment of this in the present system is difficult to come up with. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider these passages. Think about offering such facilitation opportunities, or I think there might be another side of the story to think about strengthening the cultural system that deals with this. And I apologize for this approach, because I wasn't talking about museums that are worse than average. I know mainly museums who work in a better position than the average, and unfortunately, this is the reason why in many cases the exit is not going to store with a doctorate. I can understand that for myself, but that's why I can see the limits of that. There's no way I can support that. If the first stage is discovered, no exploration can be carried out there. So that's the problem, is that if my historian and archaeologist colleagues had done an excavation that couldn't be effective due to the lack of time, then they said that everything was okay, we dug everything up, we won, we couldn't do that. That is why I would ask the author to consider changing this procedure or softening it a little, making it more realistic that there is no archaeological treasure currently in the ground and that it is not discovered and lost. And how important that is, and I don't want to talk about it much more, I had a teacher at the university who was an archaeologist professor, and he told us that he was just telling us how big he is as an archaeologist, that I'm gonna get on the map, and he's gonna see a Sumerian settlement or an Árpád-era cemetery, but basically, the big part of this job is lucky. So if something is accidentally discovered, then there is the processing of effective cultural monuments. And it's true here, too, that if we're already plowing up our land by building on it and finding a memory there, then it's very, very likely that these memories might be important. Please look at this law through this point of view. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-29-136	Now I'm giving the floor to Mr. István Happy in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-137	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I can say that, unfortunately, I am the individual representative of a constituency which is currently crossed by two roads from the north and the south, both of which are recorded as death roads. This is 4 and 44. I also hope that, thanks to this law, if we accept this, we can say by 2018 that these two roads are no longer a way of death, because there will be an expressway in both places or both, and the residents will be able to travel safely. [[17.10]] Why do I say that? Because Congressman Luke said that there is no need to deal with the fact that someone is an individual or a listed representative. I understand, because so far you're only here as a list representative, so you don't know what it is to be an individual representative. My fellow Member Kiss is aware that this is a very different matter. Therefore, to answer for the problems of 23 settlements, for their troubles, for the lives of their inhabitants is quite different than coming in from a list. Twenty-three settlements, or even more - there are more than one hundred settlements here - working for their trust and the lives of the inhabitants there is not easy, believe me, Congressman. It's a whole other thing. Here, a man has to stand up every day. They may also be looking for you from my settlements, as I know you often turn around in Törökszentmiklós, but think that I must turn to other 22 settlements, and people will come to me with confidence in 22 other settlements. Luckily, they can always do that, because I have an inn class every day next to the public office hours. So I'm asking you not to mix the season with the guy, and then when you become an individual MP, you'll see that that's a whole other thing. As a matter of fact, what you said about Congressman Kovács... I'm sorry, perhaps Congressman Kovács didn't think he was the best of the Fidesz, but he beat up his better opponent very much. And that's exactly enough for me. Returning to motorways, where motorways are built and where to start to build a motorway, of course, if you look at it logically, it is obviously as my fellow Members have said. Let's say we should start the 44 from Kecskemét from the motorway, the 4 from Budapest. There's only one problem: it's not a coincidence that the section of Route 4 between Abony and the Gun started, and it's not a coincidence that route 44 will begin first in the Tisakürt-Condoros section. This is because there are plans, expropriations that can be started. Why is that? Because every platoon started at the same time. This is because it is the case that the procedures against which we are trying to do so with this law are so long. So I'm asking you all to support it. I understand that you support it in principle, but I would also ask Mr Luke if he thinks that walking on it is so dangerous and bad, then please support us in speeding up procedures so that the procedures that now last for many years can be completed as quickly as possible. Then, I think, to the satisfaction of all of us, road 4 can be built, I hope, of course, to the border, and road 44 can also be built. I would also like to say to Mr Luke that I would suggest that you look back at the comments made by the President of Novak from the last four years, because that is not what the President of Novak was talking about, although I know that his position has changed now and that is what he is saying. That's what he said to the congressmen who were on a second job, let's say, mayors. And then we won't even talk about two full-time jobs there. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-29-138	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-29-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At last, László Kiss returned within the two hours behind us, to the bill, and not just to formulate a system criticism, as fellow opposition representatives, who brought all kinds of other subjects here. I'm not saying this as a criticism, but let's not get off the subject so much. As regards the bill, it is important to note that in the year 2008 the National Assembly adopted the bill on motorways and road development phases at that time. Then there was the complete reconstruction of road 55 between Baja-Szeged, the design of which was started at the time, but only in December 13 could the professionals complete the planning and licensing work, since they had to go through so many bureaucratic obstacles, and the journey will be completed at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. So it takes 6-7-8 years in Hungary to refurbish an existing road, which has only widened its crown level to one and a half metres, but it took a complete authorisation procedure to do so. That is why I propose to Benedek Sallai, that you should definitely consider that acceleration is not from the devil, it is not from the devil, if we don't build a road or plan for six years, but we build it quickly, because it is necessary to travel and sail, said the Latinos at the time. I would like to ask you to compromise, since this is a two-thirds amendment of the bill, because it will not pass without you. If we cannot agree, there will be no way in this stinky life that, in Hungary, either the 350 kilometres of roads marked by the Secretary of State or any other future development goals, roads, construction of new roads, renovation of existing roads can be achieved within a reasonable time, whether from domestic or European sources. That's why I'm asking for your support, and don't get off the subject so much. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-29-140	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With one thought, I would like to refer back to an earlier voice of representatives on the issue of automotive companies. I would just like to say in the context that it is a fact and it is true that these companies have no longer complained about having road and infrastructure development problems in the first place. But let's say I'm not surprised, because Szentgotthárd, Esztergom, Kecskemét is the circle of affected settlements. But I remember the time when the investments were being prepared. At the Audi in Kecskemét, or I could say many settlements, namely Miskolc, in terms of infrastructure, the road network development things that could have helped in such a way were not ready, indeed, partly restrictive conditions. I'm just saying what I said at the beginning, and I'm not going to repeat that I think that we need to look at the processes in their complexity, at every moment of time, and to help them with a little perspective and in advance, to shape, even with other types of economic development, that something that can be established doesn't just depend on road development, infrastructure gaps or existences. More specifically, in connection with the current draft law: my fellow Member, Mr Kiss, has said some things regarding the regulatory system that I think it is worth considering. By the way, personally, I think that what can be made Hungarian and effective or effective, not only is eligible, but must also be supported. I don't think there's any difference in view between us. What is not Hungarian, however, I am talking about investments and developments here, but we are not able to bring it to life on our own and create it with government help, and I do not think that we should hate it, but rather find the regulatory systems that are practically serving our Hungarian interests and interests. So I would never - I apologize for the use of words - arouse hatred, for example, in the relations between so-called multinationals and so-called SMEs, because if there are no multinationals, then there are no Hungarian suppliers. This is equally true for both automotive companies and, where appropriate, road construction companies. Plus, those foreign-owned companies, if we start looking at them now, who do they employ? Hungarian people. Hungarian people, and if you look at the employment conditions, I didn't do it, I'm just suggesting they don't come out of the story in a comparison. So if we want more than that, we need to put in place regulatory systems for their development before this happens, which really serves to strengthen Hungarian interests. So I wouldn't hate it, I would look for solutions constructively. The other, which must be valid not only for road development but also for all other major investments, is the decision preparation process itself. Here we are not so long ago - placed in quotes - beyond the preparation processes and partly preparation processes of a large development in Paks. We see how and how this process of preparation, decision preparation, takes place. [[17.20]] Transparent? It is not transparent for Parliament's Member, not for the commoner, not for the living man! So the basic requirement is that all processes financed and operated by the State, which include state resources, people's advance money, go through a transparent process. Be open, public, traceable, transparent. The Paks example is a veterinary horse in this regard. There are thousands of things that we could all line up, in which it was not possible to virtually track not only those processes, but also to see them, which were committed by Orbán, Putin and others in the background during that period. I couldn't. As a Member of Parliament, it was not possible to get close to information that would have led to the real picture at committee meetings. This is obviously necessary in the case of several tens of billions in scale, where appropriate road development, to have this kind of transparency - not of this type anymore, but that it is a kind of transparency that is practically exact, measurable and accountable. And obviously, the process of realization can be followed on the one hand and verified on the other. But not by putting it in quotes, social control should be achieved by a secretary of state, let's say, getting up and saying that it's okay. No. That alone is far from enough. Not because I don't want to believe the words spoken by the Secretary of State, but because my experience is different about these processes. Because I could now give concrete examples here, within the walls of Parliament, of how it has increased - it has not become cheaper -, let us say, in a given period of time, in the course of a month or two, to carry out a current investment. I also signify - if you want to control it, check it out - besides Miskolc, in Felsőzolca, when the flood, the Auchan area and other residential areas were flooded by Sajó, then what kind of agreement was agreed - citing the agreement - about the execution and then withdrawing it - I don't even want to say how much more it cost for a new assignment after it was withdrawn. So what I'm trying to say is that traceability, transparency is a very important thing, because if that is not the case, then there is obviously a possibility of corruption, then there is obviously a possibility of abuse. And, of course, I don't want to go that far now, for example, with regard to the specific investment that is specifically road development, dam construction, etc. who was the contractor. It couldn't have been too much, they could be guessing, and they'll hit him in two. So what I'm saying is, I don't think that's right. In addition, there, then, and in connection with the specific investment in the given region, there was an investor background - not a company, let's say, on a consort surface - who could have done this as a local force and cheaper. And not the local power, but another interest in the investment. It's true, not in the first round, second round. So I think we should be able to eliminate this kind of process, because if we don't, there are two kinds of three kinds of damage. On the one hand, what we are always fighting to say that economic potential in backward areas will not be further damaged will be further damaged, as they fall out of the opportunities they could have access to because of their abilities, capacity and many others, because they are motivated by other interests, more expensive and not by local forces. I think it might be enough for so many examples. I think that this needs to be changed, too, because if you cannot change that - and in relation to the five years that we now have behind us from your period of governance, I would not be able to give this one example just about. No. I would know many such examples only in relation to North-East Hungary. And I am less familiar with investment in infrastructure in other areas of the country, such as road development, dam construction and other types of infrastructure. But only in North-East Hungary, I can mention much more than this one. Then there's obviously a multiple of that in the country. So I think that this makes the process more difficult from two sides, once again, on two sides. On the one hand, it weakens local economic and construction potentials that can sustain local employment in the longer term and, on the other hand, it increases the process and, on the other hand, it is not accompanied by the types of price increases that may be found in the dam or in the way. This must be avoided, I think it must be prevented, excluded. And two more thoughts at the end. It was a happy fellow Member, a sure slip of the word, not in his two minutes or comments before that, when he said that he wanted this to be understood as a realized process for the M44 in 2018-2020. I'd like to ask you not to think after 2018. Think in a way that can continue, but not in such a way as to bear burdens primarily; in 2016-2018 ask the fellow Members to help you within the walls of Parliament, it is likely that there will be more... [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] - you said that in the second one - you can find more support in this. Don't think too much about post-2018 processes. [[János Volner intervenes.]] Jobbik's ambition is immeasurable, but I think it's not their wish that needs to be satisfied. But don't you think too much about it. And my last thought is that if your Prime Minister is allowed or sent to the regions in question, I ask that you do not give him the power to tell people things that will not be achieved by stimulating political desires. It should be sent, on the one hand, with rational, tangible, feasible and timely messages to the respective areas. There will be much greater political losses in the elections in three years' time if they are made in terms of promises, or road development, than we have seen in the last few weeks, in more places, they will be said and not be implemented. But back from politics to the draft law, I would like to conclude by saying that if you have failed to resolve this issue in the last five years, as you have so many other questions, because five years has been short, then once again with great respect, I ask you not to be marked by the haste in this expected three-year period before you, and you do not want to solve everything in a month or two, and rationally want to find a solution where there are real demands. As an example of the above, regarding the counting of M3, which we said decades ago to all current governments, regardless of their color, that we were on the old M3, and, well, the facts support this, we are now measuring data of 23 thousand magnitude against the six thousand. So it's factual why it had to be done. On the same basis, on a measured, concrete, objective basis, decisions should be prepared! [[17 .30]] And once again, I ask you to take into account not only one aspect of where to build a more expensive road - quoted in quotes - but also where to find it or where to create the intellectual infrastructure background and the technological infrastructure background on this issue. And, of course, to do so, people's wages must also be placed in such a position that they do not emigrate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-29-142	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2015-04-29-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to reassure Mr István Happy, who very much described what it was like to be an individual representative: I am not an individual Member, but believe me, Member, that I can imagine. If you think that most of the reception hours, most of the public forums, have been held by Jobbik representatives on the basis of the reports of the various newspapers, then believe that Jobbik's representatives also keep in touch with residents in their constituency very intensively. I would also like to say that when the Member mentions the M4 motorway, they really know this highway as a road of death, it would indeed be necessary to build the M4 motorway, but there is no rational explanation for why they start building it there and why they don't start at the busiest stages. And I will add what Secretary of State László Tasó said that if it takes an average of six and a half years to prepare an investment, then five years of this has passed under your governance. It would have made much more sense if the first phase had been built near Budapest, in relation to Cegléd and Budapest. Every highway-building engineer, every economist, anyone who knows how to do this seems to think it's perfectly clear and rational, but unfortunately, the Orbán government didn't. Mr László Kiss said that the EU's materials are not about what I was talking about, why the European Union is giving us money. Of course that's not what they're about. Fellow Members, I said what I thought was relevant in this respect. Obviously, the rich states of the European Union will not say that they are dear Hungarians, that we are building a railway ring for you, or that we want you to take on these subsidies, where appropriate, loans in the case of the railway ring, so that it will be better for you, because the Hungarian industrial companies are so large that you will not be able to transport the products otherwise. Obviously, the European Union does not write this because it knows that there is no Hungarian industry. He wants foreign companies established here to develop the necessary infrastructure improvements, and he obviously supports this. It will not describe that dear Hungarians, we will give you the European Union funds to serve our companies that have come to you with investments in infrastructure. It's quite obvious. Let me give you an example of which this proposal once again did not answer, and it is very important. There was an infringement procedure known as asphalt, which was conducted by the European Union against Hungary. The point was that within 50 kilometers the company that wanted to build a road had to have an asphalt-mixing plant, while not even a technological barrier to transport from a hundred kilometers long ago, and besides today's technologies, asphalt could be transported even further. Why is that important? Because of these restrictive measures, it was possible to achieve that only the largest companies, foreign large companies and large companies close to the government can do this work together as consortium partners. In an optimal state operation, however, there would have been a public administration organisation which would have split the work to such an extent that these orders were distributed among local Hungarian-owned enterprises, they were the ones that could have benefited from them, and then the local employment could have been boosted, and the money could have been kept in place. Because if you spend 100 billion forints on road or rail construction in an area, we don't give it to Swietelsky, and now we're talking about the latest Fidesz-close businesses, let's say, Felcsút - I'm just quoting yesterday's press for what investments we're thinking: right now, Lőrinc Mészáros's company has won 10 billion forints of channel investment somewhere; it's completely accidental that we're talking about Mayor Felcsút - so these are the cases, fellow Members, which I say we should leave the money on the spot as much as possible, and then the motorway construction wouldn't result in companies missing these orders, but on the contrary, if they spend several billion forints in an area, then local businesses get as much of that money as possible, and so the income stays in place. In this way, it is possible to get people to work and not to become poor in this area. In these steps, I think the government is still in debt. This proposal, which, once again, is extensive, regulates quite a lot of things in large infrastructure investments, but it does not give an answer, although it would be important. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-29-144	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-29-145	Thank you very much. I apologize, I do not want to take this dialogue in this direction, but it is important to talk about it because the problem with these exclusive wordings is that, while I obviously believe that my fellow Member Volner is expressing criticism, they are just not true. No one really believes that if he recovers - I apologize, this is my obsession - let's say, the M0 ring in the north, then it's only III. He will be used by a district man, and if my fellow Member Volner is there, he will be banned. Or if in Y.'s industrial park, where I don't know what nationality of a company is established, a highway will be built, everyone who travels on it will be banned. It is also clear to us that we are talking about infrastructure improvements and the Union has supported infrastructure improvements that have benefited the community. It is possible to argue and to argue whether these funds were well-run here or elsewhere. That's what you can argue about. I just think that if we establish such exclusivity, we do not see the problem, that is to say, we are not discussing whether an investment, the source, has a good place where it is or is not, but we are arguing about what is not really true at this moment. And a slightly distorted argument - I apologize for the approach - is that, of course, it is not written down. On that basis, if I had attributed to you a statement you wouldn't have made, and I would have killed your argument that you didn't tell me how cleverly you didn't say it, because if you had, you would have exposed yourself. You can't argue like that! What I'm asking is if we identify problems that are wrong directions, you have to say that. If we say that the M4 or any other road is not in the right place, whether it is the EU or the Hungarian source, then let's find another location, and then our criticism is expressed in this way. I think it'd be a lot more fun this way. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-146	I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy in two minutes.
u2015-04-29-147	Mr. President. Honourable Members, I absolutely agree with the essence of what László Kiss has to say. What I can tell my colleague, Mr Volner, is that if the residents can travel safely and save lives with such an investment, then it is good. If with this investment we can help local small businesses to get to the market, or to get to them by tourists, or by doing so, we can help investors arrive and create jobs, then such an investment was worth it. And I think that all the investment in motorways, motorways and railways was worth it in this respect, at least if they're finished like M6, it'll be worth it, because if you go out to the border, it'll be worth it. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, whether we should now make plans across cycles or not to make plans across cycles. Because when he first spoke, he told me why they didn't carry on certain plans, and now he's telling us not to plan. Excuse me, my fellow Member, but we have to plan. You have to make the plans so that they can get there. And I hope that by 2018, but if not by 2018, the motorway M44 will be completed by 2020. As far as receiving hours are concerned, Congressman, you must be right, this paper must be good. Obviously, whether I or all my fellow individual Members do not work as much as you do. But, you know, you don't just have to give an individual representative hours - maybe there's someone here who can prove that - but you have to deal with a lot of other problems in your constituency, which I'm not sure you're dealing with. And why the road construction started there? I would like to say it again, I agree that we should have started with Budapest at 4, 44 and Kecskemét, but the thing is that they started where the plans were ready, and there were all the conditions for starting the investment. [[17.40]] Because of the delay in the authorisation procedures, the permit is not yet ready for all stages. That's why we need to speed up, so we need your help.
u2015-04-29-148	I am now giving the floor to Member István Józsa in a normal time frame.
u2015-04-29-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You have grinded the introduction very quickly, and the debate has turned out nicely, so I suggest you tell me the closing word with sufficient detail. Especially if you feel a knowledge base for what is basically the first stage of my last quarter of an hour. You, as I mentioned in my first comment, are amending 13 legislative sites and, according to our collection, 40 points of substance. This is a very large-scale modification of the licensing system, the whole road construction framework. At the same time, there is also a very small hidden content of this law, which could be a bag cat, which is to say that the law empowers the government to define in a regulation the detailed rules for matters relating to transport infrastructure investments of major importance to the national economy. Dear Secretary of State, This law has been submitted by the government, your minister, and on this basis I assume that it meets the requirements of the legislative law. One part of this could be inter-reconciliation, coherence analysis, but at the same time it could be brought here when these certain regulations, at least on a conceptual level, are even clearer, and it would be an honor for the Parliament to be able to accompany them. So here, as I have said, 13 amendments to legislation and such a mandate that practically anything related to this subject is defined by the government as a detailed rule in the regulation, this is something incredibly big mandate, a great puvoar, and it can also be abused. I very much hope that you will make use of this basically, and, let us say, at least the committees of Parliament will be informed of these ideas. But this optimism about how you've been working for the past five years is not very well founded. I perceive a change of era, a change of style in the work of the governing majority, and I hope that this will also include the fact that such a significant detail regulation will at least be shared with Parliament's commission, and a law of such age, such as the acceleration of the implementation of transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy, on which you mentioned that the Prime Minister would travel the country, go to every county seat, to all destinations, and inform the people there what to expect, therefore, that in the spirit of the change of style, you will also provide Parliament with adequate information, in accordance with the legislative law. The other interesting part, which I do not know how much it is explained in your mind, which concerns the municipalities, is that the law establishes a general obligation to amend the settlement planning instrument - whether it is a development plan or a locally used name - for which the municipality has four months. The duration is fixed, but will this municipality have the money to make such a settlement plan professionally? There are a lot of local governments, especially small ones, that have not yet prepared such regulations or spatial planning plans without their fantasy and plans, but simply because of the financial reasons, because it takes millions of forints in the lower voice to make such plans professionally. So I very much hope that, in addition to such an obligation, there will be a financial opportunity. It is in the law to simplify the way in which the area band and the duration of protection are defined. Okay, you're simplifying, but how? Here, as I have already mentioned, very serious warranty issues arise, because in a simplified way a good solution can be found in a fortunate case. How do I put this? Based on some experience, this simplification may serve someone's interests more than anyone else. So I would also stress the enforcement of transparency within the framework of the adoption of acceleration, not to mention the duration of protection. In order to facilitate the selection of trails, the environmental authority, the National Authority for the Environment and Nature Protection, the disaster management authority, the government's coordinating representative, the authority competent for the protection of archaeological heritage and historic value, and the administrative authorities involved in the environmental impact assessment process, as well as the authority issuing the road construction permit and the bodies involved in the procedure as road safety and defence authorities. That's how it's been before, and without it, you couldn't pick a trail. Now, the new thing is that you're going to have them sitting at a table, trying to inspire them to do something together? Or are these rules laid down in certain regulations so that these many administrative authorities, intermediate bodies together, work more quickly to facilitate the optimal selection of the trail? I'm telling you, there are good elements or there may be good elements in this law, but, as they say, the devil is in the details, and as far as the details are concerned, you have only one authority to give the government the authority to determine. So it seems like the carriage is a little ahead of the horse; the Prime Minister has already been to Zalaegerszeg, Eger, Pécs, and in two weeks he may be going to three or four more places, all sorts of things that the locals probably like, he promises, and at the same time, which should be the beginning of this, how they think to do it, there is only a bill in front of the Parliament that will reach such a mandate. So I think that if you were serious about this, you would have started a little sooner and, say, asked your prime minister not to want to be in such an impossible position that, if someone had listened to it, you would have asked, but still, Prime Minister, your Secretary of State said here in Parliament that six and a half years would prepare this, and now you will have a speeding-up bill, and as a result you can't know how much it will speed up, let's say, half of it, or even more optimally, in three years, you will do it, when are you going to build it? Now they promise, and then 2015 plus 3, that's 18, you might not even be on the government anymore. Or is it the honey trade to make it a good election result, and then we'll build it? [[17.50]] It is also worth talking about the impact of the entire proposal on the entire Hungarian road network, because you have been zealously arguing for what you did earlier, of course, why the motorways are making so much effort for so much. It is also important to see that, in addition to these motorways - from which you have been criticising for the past eight years more than 700 kilometres - there is also a major part of the country's road network that would need renovation, at least a minimum level of renovation. You have spoken very correctly here about economic development, rural industrial development, but if you only think about motorways and there is no renovation of the lower roads, minimum of pottying, then how does the goal of optimism that is called rural tourism in many places become possible? I believe that you are focusing on such strategic agreements, in which you believe that large companies working in Hungary can receive some kind of advantage from the government - this would also be interesting - but, at least with such an advantage, you stress that we believe it is right to help small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, basically small businesses, the rural economy. If the lower roads are not given similar attention - I hope that is not what the Secretary of State will say, but that at this rate and how the lower roads will be restored - then this can remain a torso. Well, it's not as torso as the M4, which is now built to some extent, the columns are there, it's very torso, but even if the highway is built up to a county seat or a country border, there's no way for visitors to get to the parts of the country that are blessed with the main natural potential where it's worth thinking about rural tourism. Or, in many cases, it is already built, it may already be built by the locals, waiting for the guest, but the road ends 50 kilometers earlier, and the last stage is such that, with the risk of breaking the axle, it is not certain that anyone will dare to cut it. So it would be very important that, in addition to these ambitious plans, which this proposal also demonstrates, there should be continuous road maintenance, road renovation, which creates the consistency and complexity of all of this. So, you've done quite well with your own mayors - I don't want to go here in the road construction to detail the situation in which you put the small town mayors; I don't want to say that you, Mr. Secretary, have fled your own settlement, but you must have left it in good hands, because there is continuity - but at least you're hearing the voice of your own mayors in terms of the development of transport. This is a big plan, and in a few years some county seats may be available, they can build roads, they can work off the omissions that have been collected here in the field of road construction in five years, but it remains half a value if the visitor or the multitude of people living there cannot get on the right track, or they cannot go from smaller settlements to major industrial centres or economic centres, just because the wallet, the attention of the profession, the attention of the budget, the money is taken away by the transport infrastructure of national importance. So I would like to say that, from a national point of view, the entire transport infrastructure is a priority, and I would suggest that it should be treated in accordance with its weight, and that they should not only think about modernising the entire Hungarian road network and rail network. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-29-150	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. The opportunity is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-29-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that some of you will keep on waiting for the closing, perhaps, and it will be very worthwhile, because I would also like to answer some of the questions that are relevant. Let me begin first of all by saying that our intention is clearly to speed up the possibility that in Hungary the missing road connections that are important for the regions, such as motorways, should arrive at the national border, that the county seat, the county-righted cities should be connected to the motorway network, and that priority roads such as 102, 471, could be mentioned, or 23, 25, should be built, and their capacity should be increased. This is a very important task for us, and we want these to be implemented more quickly than we can now. 'Cause how's it going at the moment? The situation is that we want to amend the procedure that was put together in 2007 by the Bajnai Gordon set-up, so at the moment what was adopted in 2007 is about speeding up the procedure. So when you talk about six and a half years, you should also think that from 2007 to 2013, the procedure had to proceed, and even now, even in 2014 and even in 2015 it is possible to submit applications according to those procedures. So the rules of procedure of the authorities are in 2007. With regard to the six and a half years that Congressman Volner has mentioned, and many have said, what we have done for five years, there is a mistake: the order that we have already followed is a 2007 procedure. So that's what we want to change, and that's what we need to measure everything. What is important and absolutely demanding is that, in the first round, everyone tried to convince the audience, and he said his message to the protocol that he saw the goals to be supported, but he did not meet our request, which is about helping Hungary to make such important investments, which are important from an economic point of view. All we want to do is to spend it as quickly and as quickly as possible in response to economic growth, and to put the resources at our disposal at risk. Everyone has tried to agree that there is no economic development and economic security without the development of our transport network. We want this development process to accelerate. What is very important is that the speakers have expressed concerns, which I have been following. I would urge all the kind speakers to submit, examine, and naturally monitor their comments if they have any suggestions according to their concerns. What is important: some concerns are not real concerns, good for the public and good for the record. But why I'm saying this, I'm gonna make it more specific. Let us start with the fact that, in the preliminary discussion, which we have formulated, at the beginning of the proceedings, all the actors involved will be called together and we will look at possible and particularly important aspects, and we will define the points that need to be discussed separately and should be agreed at the beginning of the procedure. They help not to reveal to any actor later that it can create problems with the trail that hinder or stop the process. What happened? And what's still happening these days? What is happening is that all procedures can start one after the other and there is no possibility of parallel procedures, there is no possibility - even if there were and it would make sense - to concentrate more in a process. For example, as we are proposing - and hopefully it will happen after Parliament's support - that in the environmental impact assessment process, soil protection, forest protection and soil protection procedures will be completed. [[18.00]] These are reasonable, normal thoughts, which they knew anyway, but no one dared to express. The same concerns about archaeology. That's not a real concern either. Everyone knows that Hungary has a government and a majority of governors that have been monitoring the activities of heritage protection. We have made laws that, by the way, ensure that everyone treats our treasures, our common treasures, with sufficient seriousness and responsibility. The proposal specifically states that the Minister for Heritage has the possibility that if he does not see the findings safely, he can order a new procedure. So it is safe to say that, at any time during the investment process, the Minister himself has the opportunity to order further exploration. We would like to endeavour to ensure that all procedural processes, such as archaeological ones, are put in a sufficient time frame. It should not be possible, either intentionally or on order, as has been said here in some comments, to hinder the realisation of the investment. I do not really consider the concerns expressed about the municipalities to be a real concern either. Because if you are dealing with local governments, you also know that only the municipality can amend the decree itself. If the government office also urges the procedure and does so only if the municipality does not do so in time to modify the settlement instrument, it can only encourage it, but only the body can amend the regulation itself. This concern is false because there is absolutely no such chance for anyone who can think of it, that this right cannot be taken away from the municipality. This is not what we are thinking of taking powers from the municipality. Again, this is a false and truly false concern in this regard. I would also like to address the environmental concerns, but I would just like to answer them. No one wants to ignore the current EU directives. No one is trying to make investments in some way at the expense of environmental conditions and by overcoming our natural resources. That's not what's happening. For example, the 5-year authorisation period will be extended to 10 years if the conditions remain the same. But if that changes, it's not natural to extend the 5-year license to 10 years old. This is also obvious, so I also feel that their comments are false. I also consider the concerns about soil protection to be false, as it is made clear in the proposal that there is only one regulation in it, and not that there is a change in the concept and the majority's position on land protection at any point in it. To sum up, I can say that the contributions, except for pro-government contributions, have a first-round supportive effect on the student, but it turns out that they are not in any way supportive. But if they do not support it, then, as I said earlier, in the introduction, they prevent those missing connections and roads and investments in the development of transport, which are important to people. It is also important to know that we are talking about rail investments, investments in waterways, development of suburban transport, projects in the capital. It's just a hit theme, maybe, to change the mode of transport. Intermodal centres are under preparation, which would clearly help us to take care of the environment and protect the environment even more and try to transform the atmosphere of transport. These are very important investments, there are a lot of big cities waiting for them. There are many improvements in preparation that, according to the current procedure, could not and could not, as I have said, have the effect, as we are firmly asserting, that economic development is based on the development of the transport network and the improvement of transport systems. We do not agree with LMP when it is clearly formulated not to build roads. Their lead speaker made it clear that we shouldn't build roads. Let's fix the existing roads and renovate them. I would point out here that, in the last 20 years, there has not been a framework for the development of the domestic road network as it has been in recent years, which you will now experience. I would just like to say, for example, that last year we completed a programme of 33.5 billion for the renovation of four and five-digit roads, and the renovation was completed at 540 kilometres. This year, a 50 billion-dollar programme will be launched, which will also take control of one, two, three-digit trips, figuratively speaking, in many places. In fact, with a framework of 18 billion, we would like to continue to renew the four- and five-digit routes, and we are confident that we will be able to provide additional resources for this purpose. This is very inappropriate, I do not think that anyone who thinks responsibly about Hungary's traffic situation takes note of this. I would also like to address it separately to Mr István Józsa, so that clarity remains. In what period was the road network built? In particular, there were no roads built from the domestic budget between 2002 and 2010; there is hardly any road construction with a domestic budget if you look at it well. What happened was under the PPP programme. And in 2007-2008, what happened during the Gyurcsány-Bajna era? A concession contract was concluded for the M5 motorway M6 sections. Like what? An important moment of which is a 30-year commitment, which means that we have to pay for the stages of the two roads with an investment cost of HUF 384 billion so that we can now pay for it until 2037. So until 2037 Hungary pays for the PPP construction that was left for us from the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period. This means that this year we have to pay HUF 114.5 billion for the availability fee, and this amount will obviously only increase in the coming years. So it costs roughly HUF 3300-3400 billion to invest HUF 384 billion. If someone then claims that it is expensive, as Nándor Gúr said, and spoke about unit costs, think about what he is saying. Many people may not know this, but once again, the HUF 384 billion investment costs Hungary around 3400 billion. If anyone has any concerns about this, we need to look into it. Perhaps it will be published in a newspaper shortly, we had such a question. I have said it several times in Parliament, but I repeat that Hungary has to pay more than HUF 100 billion every year until 2037. And where did that come from? From the tolls. That's what takes two thirds of the toll. Even though we would like to spend an even greater amount on renovating the lower roads or renovating the roads that are subject to charges, unfortunately, we have such opportunities. But in return, from 2007 to 13, the EU's procedural order was defined by the Bajnai task force. Because remember, I also remember that it was called Gordon Bajnai, who was commissioned by Ferenc Gyurcsány's Prime Minister by establishing the EU's procedural order and creating the entire institutional system at all. That was Bajnai Gordon himself. When talking about 6.5 years, you always have to consider what you can do. We do not have an opportunity until 2013, even now, in 2015, only if we accept it, to speed up the process itself. We don't have a choice. We can't touch it. As much as you would have liked it, the Orbán government could not have done it by the end of 2013, but it still can't do it in 2014 and 2015 until this legislative mandate gives you the opportunity to do so in Parliament. If we wanted to, we wouldn't have known. The time has just come. In the autumn of 2014, we reviewed and examined it. We had to look at it, because otherwise, if we wanted to, we couldn't have touched it, where and when we had to intervene. This is how a working group was set up that started its work. After a lot of legal and inter-ministerial discussions, he came to the conclusion that they could only go to a border in acceleration. [[18.10]] And we had to renegotiate, sit down again, and negotiate with all the actors, because it was important to shorten this process to a third. Because we claim and say now that by adopting the proposal, it will be possible to limit the procedural and preparatory phase itself to two years. In two years, we want to get from decision-making to execution. It's a very serious commitment and it's very difficult. I think that if this becomes a reality, it will not only be possible for our investments to start sooner, but also that there will not be so much tension in a more sensible, transparent and clearer procedure, and there will not be so much - perhaps not with hurtful intentions, but also with a statement - there will not be so much administrative delay. Because on occasion we experienced that we felt that, and then it turned out that only the procedure did not allow the procedures to slow down deliberately. But no. We examined it, looked at it, and it turned out - which is why I said the exact years - that they couldn't move faster, they didn't have a chance. So that is what the workers in the preparation have had to change, and I believe that this has succeeded in the proposal. So, Congressman István Józsa, PPP construction, do not forget: until 2037 and HUF 3400 billion. Important numbers. And that's how you figure out how much it costs. Why did we wait? The M2 has been trying to do it for ten years, the camp of MSZP promised it ten years ago, the M4 in 2006, as has already been said, the M8 was promised around 2008 and now we are doing it. We're gonna do all these things one by one. You promised, you could have, because by 2010, the European Union did not regulate the level of support for transport development. However, the European Union has now defined what can be developed in the world of transport development. They clarified the extent to which railways can be developed and how much can be used for roads and the potential for suburban transport. It's written in white and black. So whoever doesn't know this, either doesn't read enough after it, or doesn't want to acknowledge that, unfortunately, we are bound by it. That is why the government thought, and the Hungarian economy made it possible to make significant investments from the domestic budget, at the end of which up to 600 billion net, but I see that there may be even more, which will be translated from the domestic budget until 2019. It's a huge number. Once again, Hungary has never, overall, spent so much on the domestic budget, perhaps since the change of regime overall, and it is even certain that this amount is such a large amount for the construction and development of a road network. And one more time and for the most part, I'd like to tell the LMP that it's not just that we want to build motorways and finish them. It's not like that. There are very important roads, not motorways, but motorways, there are many connecting roads, there are many connecting roads, which are extremely important for the region. And when someone says that we don't need road construction and we don't need the road, we really should go to that area, we should stand in front of people, and we should say that we think so. Maybe they won't invite you the next time. Scientists of science and science and those responsible for the subject know more than politicians, and I understand that, because they do, only science experts come less among people. And we're there. We're there. We meet them, we talk to them, we meet the businesses, and everyone expects that this concept that we really imagined, which was approved by the government in the national transport development strategy, would be implemented. This strategy, which was adopted in August 2014, I do not know how well you know it, consists of 5,000 pages, and it has been discussed in society for about three years in which all the proposals that have been proposed have been dealt with. After such a preparation, it was accepted, and the government programme was defined along the lines of the concept. Beyond István Józsa, MEP László Földi made the need for further construction of the M4 stronger, but you have heard that the M4 will be built further. They have already stated that on several occasions they have said that we would naturally like to build all motorways, and that every section that is missing is also to finish, as is possible, somewhere already described, until 2018. Mr. János Volner, although he had already left, was acting in an interesting manner, as he was still supporting him at our five-party meeting, now he has been trying to classify the government for 14 1/2 minutes and us, our activities and even our attitude, and in 3 seconds he may have said that there is something else to support. Erzsébet Schmuck, as I have just said, made it clear that LMP does not support road construction. We took note of this, and we are very sorry that you think so. Among the comments by Nándor Gúr, I have only noticed that he is making criticisms and speaking on matters in which he may not have had to, as I said, the specific cost in the world of road construction. The other comments were partly answered by the Members, and I heard that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's comments were actually returning questions for the last month. So what you've already said in the form of interpellation, you've just canceled. These can be answered in question and in the form of interpellation, but they were not really related to the subject. Concerns are not real everywhere. If you intend to support us, in any way, to help us make our investments faster in Hungary, we will welcome it. We believe that it is in Hungary's interest that this proposal be adopted, and I very much hope that this will happen. Thank you with all due respect. By the way, it was very interesting, and I was glad to be here for these three hours. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Happy Stephen applauds.]]
u2015-04-29-152	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has applied for a speech after today's agenda:, Will the core of nature conservation also be wiped out? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-29-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The title partly refers to this week's events, to the fate of the land taken from the management of national parks, and to the fact that, on 1 April, the environmental and nature conservation administration ceased to be independent, and not only lost their independence, but also lost their level of authority in the government office. Twenty-five years ago, it was common that agricultural engineering training was an educational model for agricultural engineers in the field, where basically the intellectuals had to be trained to manage larger plant sizes. Over the last 25 years, a system of agricultural education has been established that has tried to adapt as widely as possible to changing worlds, small farms, the needs of the bio-economy, and landscape management model programmes. For alternative rural development experiments that allow the best possible use of natural resources for collaborative farming models across the country. We have seen a number of these training models, which have used virtually European or even more international examples of training models with a different approach to agricultural production than in previous decades. One of these flag-bearers was the training of environmental agricultural engineers, which, due to the name of the specialist, wanted to implement environmental management, sustainable use of natural resources, cooperation with natural landscape features, with a number of instruments presenting less environmental-intensive agricultural technologies that create less pollution. We now meet agricultural engineers everywhere, and they also work alongside general agricultural engineers, but in many places we find private farmers who started their farming careers with this training at the head of small farms, i.e. 100-120-150 hectares. [[18.20]] Another such training is the training of nature conservation engineers, which I wanted to talk about. For practically years, nature conservation professionals have graduated from some majors, chemists, biologists, or perhaps ecologists with biologists. However, there are very few courses that have specifically taught nature conservation biology, nature conservation intervention systems, and would specifically have prepared young people and students to perform practical nature conservation tasks as nature conservation professionals in national parks and NGOs. I confess that I myself have such a higher education degree, so I was quite impressed when I saw that on Friday, April 17, the Ministry of Human Resources sent to universities a draft amendment to the National Higher Education Law, and that the Department of Agricultural Engineering and Nature Engineering was completely weeded out of higher education, along with some other agricultural engineers. I am truly shocked to note that in the ideas on agricultural higher education, the education government has practically returned to the level of 25 years ago. He says that there is no need for specialized small farmers, bio-farmers supporters, no need for conservation professionals, and that they will be trained in some other profession. It's not like there's any other major. It is of great concern that what is happening, because obviously it seems that the agricultural-environmental management course is another minor revenge for the work of János Ángyán, who has worked very hard as a university professor to create and spread this course in Hungary. Practically now, not only the Institute for Environmental Management at St. Stephen's University, where education started, it was wound up at the former University of Gödöllő, but also the course itself nationwide. In the case of nature conservation engineers, we also find that not only the institutional system of nature conservation has gone down the drain now, not only the nature conservation efforts of national parks will be impossible with the measures adopted this week, but they will also virtually eliminate the professional background, because in the future no such jobs will be planned. I am extremely concerned about these trends, and I hope that the education government can change its position. We hear there's an intention. That is what I would like to encourage the representatives of the government to do. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-29-154	Gergely Kulcsár applied for a speech following the next agenda with the title "The problems of the army and the relationship between foreign engagements." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-29-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The first thing that matters is to clarify what NATO means to us. It's supposed to be a federal system that will come to our aid if our country is attacked. Thank God we didn't have to test it yet, but is it worth the billions invested in it? What guarantees are there for the proper functioning of the alliance? History has proven on many occasions that alliances with the West are useless because they either fail or act in an inadequate way, late, driven by self-interest. These are historical facts and, in view of this, only based on the protection of Article 5 is irresponsible. Unfortunately, it has to be said that both the current and the previous governments have forgotten to be cautious and reasonable in their great NATO worship. However, the first and most important thing would be to ensure the peace and protection of Hungary at all costs. But what does the government say government politicians say? They say that our commitments to NATO will strengthen our alliance positions and help us in trouble will come right away. And what happens if things don't turn out that way? What if NATO hesitates in trouble and acts against Hungary in the interests of the Western leaders? Who's gonna protect this country? Because the bled-out Hungarian army won't know. It's likely that the government doesn't see things that way, or else it wouldn't let the military go down and spend an ocean of money in exchange for NATO's pat on the back. Nothing more reflects this attitude than the government spending nearly 160 billion on international tasks between 2010 and 2014, out of which only missions are worth 85 billion. If we include the similar-haired expenditure of the previous government and the Gripen programmes, where the capabilities of the assets and their increased costs only assume NATO needs, this amount will increase to 500 billion, which is likely to increase further with the costs of Kurdistan and Africa's engagements, as well as with the refurbished amount of the papal airport. Thus, expenditure is expected to reach 600 billion by 2017. All this for what? Lots of red dots and friendly slapping. For no other reason, the battle experience of some soldiers listed as such, NATO compatibility and positive international judgment are opposed to a modernized, strong, well-funded, socially well-prowned, proud Hungarian army. In one case, NATO will put the country's security in the hands of an army of vegetating, basic and mission tasks on our side, in the other case we will be able to secure our country's defence with a strong Hungarian defence and, if necessary, we will hurry to help our allies. Which would be better worth all this money? We think it's the latter. Not only will our country's terrorist threat increase with mission tasks, but the country's peace will also be at risk in the context of the conflict in Ukraine if we remain and continue to be enthusiastic participants in NATO military exercises threatening Russia. Several of our offerings, such as the renewal of the papal airport to the Rapid Federal Forces or the establishment of the integration unit, will strengthen our relationship with NATO, but it would be foolhardy to say that they do not also make us targets in a possible conflict. Meanwhile, as I've already outlined, there's a problem at home in the field of defense. Since the change of regime, the former MSZP governments have almost artistically been trying to squandered and dismantle assets on smoking money, and to eliminate the population. Unfortunately, the Orbán government did not change the trend, it continued where the MSZP left off. Complete weapons have died out, the lion's portion of the equipment is outdated, outdated, or both at the same time; the ranks have ceased, the number of combatants can only perform mission tasks effectively, the training of technical and expert personnel for millions, including pilots, leave the course with a mass of them in order to make a better living. For the sake of industrial multinationals and civil airlines, there is such a high level of abandonment that bases such as Szolnok and Kecskemét may become inoperable in the future. The biggest problem with leaving the field is that among the soldiers forced to leave their profession there is the lotion of the herd, the veteran, many years of service to the elderly, who carried the profession on their backs. It's the new Hjt. is not a suitable alternative for them, because practice shows that the aim is not to solve problems, only to treat them symptomatically, so they cannot expect a better fate if they stay. It is important to review these matters, since Hungary's security and peace may be at risk. I ask the government to reevaluate NATO's servitude and to consider Hungary's true interests: the creation and maintenance of a strong army that can defend the country itself. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[18.30]]
u2015-04-29-156	Márta Demeter spoke after the next agenda with the title of promises from the air. You have the floor.
u2015-04-29-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of November 2010, Viktor Orbán made the following statements in Lithuania, to which no one else invited him: On the basis of this statement by the Prime Minister, we should have thought that he recognised the importance of reflecting on them as a result of changes in the security policy environment. But I would quote from the article of honvedelem.hu: Viktor Orbán pointed out that we are progressing with the country's commitments to NATO, and although Hungary is not a rich country that can draw ten or twenty billion forints out of its pocket, we do what we have done. It is a fact that Hungary is not such a rich country, but somehow we see that there is always 10-20 billion forints from the budget for stadiums, filling the pockets of fidesz buddies. Orbán also said that they are doing a serious renovation in Pope, they will take part in other military exercises, and they will acquire more serious military assets in the next period. Hungary will be the first group of NATO Member States to fulfil their financial and technical obligations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So Viktor Orbán said these sentences at the end of November 2014. Compared to this, very little has happened on these issues, despite the fact that these sentences of the Prime Minister could still give rise to hope. And where is the fulfillment of these promises? Because Viktor Orbán and his government have been doing exactly the opposite of the sentences mentioned here for five years. And, of course, it is very important that we fulfil our obligations regarding our NATO membership, because it is quite clear that this is how an alliance can be truly strong, and that is how it can really work, and that is what contributes most to the work and strength of the alliance, but Mr Orbán cannot put everything into this. We need to see that Hungary's security guarantee, if the Hungarian forces are as strong and as operational as possible, is in the interest of the Alliance and in the interests of Hungary. Defence must be a national matter, as otherwise fidesz politicians say on a daily basis, but they do nothing in action. This requires a stable, predictable, responsible and conscious defence policy. At present, we can only see the haste of the government, but only ad hoc measures, not any meaningful solution. But there's a lot of work to be done. As an example, I would like to say the question of An-26 machines, the solution of rigid wing transportation in the medium term. We keep saying that we also need to solve rotating wing transport capacity, not with ad hoc purchases, as in spring 2014 we managed to buy three Mi-8 machines, so to speak, from scratch in a few days. An open tender is needed to maintain the rotating wing capability, which ensures transparency and real competition. We could talk about the individual equipment of our soldiers, clothing supply, logistics tasks, and even what are the main priorities for the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, because we remember that the 2004 resolution that the government repealed was not replaced in substance; perhaps references to the definition of development directions can be found in the national military strategy, which marks 21 development priorities. Those are very nice words. The point might otherwise be to impose unfulfilled requirements; however, it would be possible to put in place good solutions; the problem is that the government is not even capable of good solutions, despite the fact that they can describe a lot of things. In fact, the largest value and strength of the Hungarian Defense is its personnel. We therefore welcome the fact that the professional staff will be able to improve their wages. I would also like to point out here that you must not forget the increase in wages for those in the status of civil servants, because they are currently not going to get any of this. So the government has a lot of work to do in the field of defence, and so much more so that the destruction and extraction that they've done over the past five years will be extremely difficult to compensate at any time. Try to ensure at least the operationality of the defence in the 2016 budget, so that it can meet the requirements of the 21st EDF in respect of technical instruments. 21st century challenges, since the preparedness of staff is already in line with the 21st century. 100th-century challenges. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-29-158	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:33 p.m.]]
