u2015-06-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 37th day of the Spring Session of the House is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Mr Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the previous decision of the Parliament, Mr Yaroslava Hartyányi will now take place before the Ukrainian minority spokesperson's agenda, in a five-minute period: a year with the title of the Speaker's Institution. I give the floor to Mrs Yaroslava Hartyányi, who describes the first sentences in her native language, Ukrainian, and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-1	Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ збори! Е дуже рада, що маȚ можливщсть привштати Вас р visitingдноȚ мовоņ. Mr President, Dear House, It is a pleasure to welcome the Honourable Parliament in my mother tongue. The reason for my speech is that the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has been established and is doing its work for a year, and I would like to report on its activities to you. Hungary's Fundamental Law, based on the stated responsibility for the cause of nationalities in Hungary, is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. By adopting a law, he created an institution of spokespersons to ensure Parliament's representation, which was intended to replace more than 20 years of legislative failure. The institution has become a new milestone in Hungary's nationalism policy, with a positive response abroad and especially in the mother countries of Hungarian nationalities. The institution's one-year operation has also demonstrated its validity by the fact that the 13 members of the committee can make use of the possibility provided by the law, actively involved in the work of the Parliament. The spokespersons set up three subcommittees and working groups within the Committee in order to work effectively. In a decisive majority, the Committee presented its proposals with a consensus in the interests of all nationalities, thus expressing the ability of advocates representing different ethnic numbers and different interests to think together. In addition to the positive welcome and encouragement at all levels, we have taken note of the good advice that in this new system we must find the best way to achieve our goals and step up the path within the legal framework that we have provided. The committee tabled 28 motions, of which there were four separate motions aimed at amending and adopting fundamental laws. Our committee, meeting almost weekly, has taken 21 decisions on a number of topics in which we have ensured our support, among other things, for national events involving nationalities, and in our resolution we have provided support to staff of ethnic origin in the case of conflicts of interest of the nationalities programmers of MTVA. The Committee met 28 times for more than 58 hours, third in terms of the duration of the meetings. The communities we represent are closely monitoring our parliamentary activities, and we are in close contact with them. They also consider our Commission's amendment to the 2015 Budget Act submitted and adopted by the Committee to be a good result. As a result, significant subsidies have been achieved in areas that have been deeply underfunded for many years. In doing so, the necessary conditions have been ensured for the real implementation of the rights and obligations set out in the Fundamental Law and the National Rights Act. It is important that the requirements of the Hungarian nationalities were incorporated into the 2016 budget bill on the basis of the preliminary proposal of the committee. Despite the successes achieved so far, we feel that the rules on the status of the spokesperson institution and the committee need to be further amended on the basis of experience. We submitted the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. a bill amending the law on the remuneration of representatives and advocates, and we want to initiate further amendments to the law on the status and status of advocates and committee. In this we would like to encourage joint reflection on the people responsible for preparing the law, and we also count on the support of the legislative body, this House. At the same time, I hope that nationalities, which represent almost ten percent of the Hungarian population, will sooner or later be given full parliamentary representation. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Hungarian people for helping Ukraine in distress in the form of humanitarian aid. It is also their job to help the mother countries of nationalities, together with the government, if necessary. I would also like to thank you on behalf of the committee for your attention. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[A big round of applause.]] [[13.10]]
u2015-06-08-2	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to thank the speaker for her speech and for the Committee's work so far, and to continue to wish for constructive cooperation with Members and, on the other hand, a good work to step on their own path. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. On Teacher's Day and on Hungarian Education. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Yesterday was a teacher's day, and I think it is right and important that we thank you from here, from the House of the country, and I thank all Hungarian teachers, all those who are doing a sacrifice for the education and education of our children and grandchildren. I would also like to mention those who are not teachers in our schools, but also have an important task in the field of education. They - the teachers - are the ones who maintain one of the most important systems of the country, our schools, education, and this system should also be discussed in the context of Teacher's Day. We consider that those changes, in particular the nationalization of schools in the former municipality, have created an overcentralized, overcentralized system in which single channel decisions often lead to reckless and faulty results. I consider that this step was necessary to centralize, but you, or those who have done so, have misplaced the scale and misplaced the ratio. Since there has been independent Hungarian education, there has never been such a centralised system since; neither before the First World War, nor between the two world wars, nor between the Second World War and the change of regime at any stage. At the same time, there are steps that I think are right, and just because I look critically at everything that is going on in the education area, I must draw attention to steps that I think they are doing right and right. It is right to pay attention to kindergartens and Hungarian kindergartens, which are crucial institutions of pre-school education. It is right to introduce free food in our schools in an ascending system; of course, the reason for this is obviously poverty, which has only increased over the past half decade and is in worse condition than ever since the change of regime. At the same time, I think it is a serious mistake, and I would also ask the honourable government parties to think about what they are planning to do now, to increase vocational training to the detriment of high school education. There must be no misunderstanding: modern vocational training is needed, and it is right for a large part of youth to receive modern vocational training, and it is safe to say that vocational training and vocational training have important tasks. However, the decision to reduce high school seats is clearly the reason why they want fewer graduates to go to college, and it is a reckless, stupid and particularly bad question, which does not open up any perspectives at all. I don't want to refer to the fact that they don't do this anywhere in the world, because you do things on a number of issues that you don't do anywhere in the world. Have faith in him. I still have to say that this is a reckless and wrong move. I find it particularly outrageous that there are localities in which they intend to discontinue full high school education in certain high schools. Schools with decades of history will be abolished and high school education will be conducted. For this reason, the names of the Hungarian settlements in which you want to terminate high school education in certain high schools: Bácsalmás, Balatonboglár, Balatonfűzfő, Balatonfűzfő, Berettyóújfalu, Biharkeresztes, Celldömölk, Csorna, Füzesabony, Hajdúhadház, Hajdúnánás, Kisbér, Kiskunmajsa, Komló, Kunhegyes, Kunszentmárton, Lőrinci, Martfű, Nagyatád, Oroszlány, Polgár, Pusztaszabolcs, Püspökladány, Siklós, Szeghalom, Szigetvár, Tab, Tiszalök, Tokaj, Túrkeve. It's a shame! Thank you for listening. [[13.20]]
u2015-06-08-4	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-08-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me start with what Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Vice-President, began with, with respect for the work of educators. We all know that one of the key roles of the future Hungary is that of teachers. It doesn't matter in what circumstances, in what respect teachers and teachers can teach in schools, because the future citizens of Hungary will receive the knowledge, the kind of attitude, the value world that a teacher does not only by passing on knowledge, but also by his personal example. That is why it is important to appreciate teachers as much as possible, which is why we estimated them last week with awards and recognitions. Almost everyone showed up on Sunday for Teacher's Day. So what we have to say is that there is consensus among all that educators should be honoured, respected for their work and for their example. That's about as far as we agree. I would also like to thank you very much for the words you have said in connection with compulsory kindergartening from the age of three, as well as for the provision of a reduced school meal. Obviously, governments would have had the opportunity to do so before; we did so, and for example, we raised the available resources from 29 billion to 58 billion in the course of the year, if I could give an example. But I consider it an equally important measure, precisely from the point of view of the progress of students from the toughest ranks, so that they can have the same knowledge, so that the third grade will receive the textbooks free of charge this year. So for parents who have children, the cost of textbooks is also decreasing, as those who are now going to be freshmen, sophomores, or third graders or higher in the ascending system will not have to pay for them. We're saving a billion and a half for the budget and the government. With regard to the separation of vocational training and the system of secondary schools and secondary schools, the situation was painted very dramatically by the Member. I suppose he was trying to list the settlements where there were mixed institutions, where the secondary school and the secondary secondary school part of the secondary school used to work in an institution. These are now being separated, as the system of vocational training is fully transformed, and its supervision will also be avoided from the Ministry of Human Resources to the Ministry of National Economy on 1 July. But it is not this bureaucratic interface itself, but the logic of the whole system is trying to change so that it can gain marketable knowledge not only in higher education but also in secondary education through dual education; the more modern, usable, the knowledge that young people get, with which they can move quickly, and who choose vocational training should have the opportunity to do so in a high quality. In settlements that have been listed, therefore, it will not be discontinued by secondary education, but by the profile cleaning of mixed institutions, where they will continue their activities as secondary schools. But of course, if you are in vocational school, then you have the opportunity to get your diploma if you want to, but before you do, you can get a skill set in your hands. I think it's extremely important. In connection with the closure of rural schools, Fidesz-KDNP is not the case, but the MSZP administration. A rather long list of the institutions that you have closed and what Fidesz-KDNP could save has been reopened in 2010-11 [[Dr. István Hiller: Three.]] And those schools can still work today. A criticism of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre is obviously possible, as is the case with all institutional systems. It is not possible to say that one or another model is good or bad, because there are countries where a municipal model works well and there are some where a centralised model works well. A centralised model can also be one that serves the common good. In any case, since the Klebelsberg Institutional Center has maintained schools, no teacher has to worry about whether or not he will receive his wages in time. It does not depend on the economic performance of the municipality whether teachers receive their wages in time or not. But we could talk about the new National Basic Training Plan, which has also made the secondary education system more up-to-date; we have introduced a Klebelsberg Scholarship, precisely so as to ensure the replacement of specialist teachers who have applied to universities for such training; or the restoration of undivided teacher training. And, of course, one of the most important things is material appreciation. Let us not forget that in 2013, we increased the amount of HUF 32 billion, HUF 120 billion in 2014 and HUF 38 billion in this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-6	Mr. András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, is next: Where was the national interest? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the evaluation of five years last week, the Hungarian Prime Minister presented his own activities by saying that, in the last five years, the Orbán government was characterised by brave national interest in Europe, rather than by the collapse of the predecessor governments. Well, it's only the courage of the blind horse; I think courage shouldn't be confused with stupidity. The main problem and crisis of the European Union is that the free trade logic for which it has been created now only increases the distance between the central countries, the core countries, the old EU members and the peripheral countries, the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe after enlargement. A two-speed Europe will take the European Union apart, and Hungary has no position on this. When an Austrian timber company goes out to Szeklerland for a slash in the spirit of free movement of capital, because it can because environmental standards are weaker in Eastern Europe, this symbolizes the situation we are talking about. Viktor Orbán was the only leader in the countries of periphery in 2010, who had a strong mandate to stand up to this logic on behalf of the countries of periphery and boldly represent the interests of the countries of periphery vis-à-vis the core countries. In 2011, Hungary was also the President-in-Office of the Union. It would have been Hungary's job to stand up bravely to review the principle of free movement of capital in the EU Treaty, and finally not to talk about a Europe of capital, but a Europe of people. Compared to this, in your own opinion, how did the courageous Prime Minister enter into a conflict with Europe? The judge's retirement age, the Data Protection Commissioner, and the media relations. Pure power play! Last time, Viktor Orbán took on a conflict to post his xenophobic posters; I believe that he has already made arrangements for the proper number of police officers. What's the national interest compared to that? It would be in the national interest to subtract the agricultural land from the free movement of capital. The LMP took this position in its own party family, while Fidesz did nothing to do so within the European People's Party. It would be in the national interest to ensure Hungary's environmental safety, so that the European Commission also gives a strong opinion on the ban on cyanide technology. It would be in the national interest to stop the poisoned foods of global food terrorists, feed containing genetically modified residues, at the Hungarian border. To this end, Viktor Orbán did not commit any conflict, and the principle of zero tolerance for feed was even lifted during the Hungarian Presidency. Orbán also fell short when it was necessary to speak in order to eradicate tax havens. It would be in Hungarian interest to tighten chemical regulation, compared with Hungary's opposition to banning chemicals harmful to bees in the European Union. It would be in Hungarian interest to have a single European labour law, a European minimum wage, only for economic emigrants from Hungary. It would be in Hungarian interest, it would be in the national interest for Hungary to take part in the rejection of free trade agreements in North America, compared with József Szájer, the first man at Fidesz, in the European Parliament, to support the free trade agreement between the US and the European Union. Finally, it would be in national interest to recognise minority autonomy within the European Union, and Hungary has no say in this matter because it has no allies. A foreign policy of interest means that Hungary does not have allies in Europe on such issues. It would be in the national interest to have a European Union where wages are increasing in Eastern Europe and natural values can also be preserved in Eastern Europe. Compared to this, Hungary has been pursuing a policy of shutting down in recent years rather than catching up. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that Hungary will never have allies with foreign policy replaced by commercialisation, while the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and South Europe would be our strategic allies. [[13.30]] Viktor Orbán's interests in power are not equal to the national interests of Hungary. What has been a conflict in Hungary over the last five years has been purely about Viktor Orbán's pride of power and his interests in power. At a place where there should have been a national interest, Hungary's interests in environmental safety and food safety, where the Hungarian land should have been protected, Mr. That's the thing. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2015-06-08-8	Mr L. Simon László State Secretary. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-9	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let me quote from the Prime Minister's speech on five-year-old governance last week the idea that there is a left-wing criticism, which considers brave standing to be unnecessary jumping, pointless. You seem to be going beyond that, and you think that the courage that Prime Minister has shown in the governance of this country, both in internal politics and in foreign policy, and the courage behind which the Fidesz-KDNP alliance, which has a two-thirds majority, has joined up [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: There was.]] It was pointless and unnecessary. It's a bravery you don't think is worth taking. We believe that the government of the first four years has just confirmed that such a stand makes sense, that the formulation of real national goals makes sense, that the representation of people makes sense. It is necessary to face up to a policy that does not serve national interests, which hinders Hungary's economic performance and hinders Hungary's finding itself. All this was confirmed by the voters in 2014, honourable Member. If what you are saying was true, if it were true that Viktor Orbán and the current Hungarian government did not represent the real national interest, then the voters would not have voted for us in 2014. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Is there any more panels?]] The fact that the country's timber companies are heading out to Transylvania is sad indeed. Unfortunately, Hungary has no direct influence on the management of Transylvanian economic policy. Show us what other similar examples you have in the current Hungarian territory, where the Hungarian government does not stand up for Hungarian farmers! Who brought the land law that prevents speculators from getting land here? [[István Apáti intervenes.]] who, by the way, do not live in Hungary and do not farm in Hungary? [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about genetically contaminated feed?]] Let's see how effectively Hungarian state forestry serves the Hungarian forest, Hungarian forestry. Look, Congressman, since Trianon Hungary is the only country where forestland and forest fry have increased many times, and what the Hungarian state and the 23 Hungarian state forestry companies are doing to protect it today! Look at how efficient and innovative they are with public forests! The principle of free movement of capital is examined above. Honourable Congressman, I can tell you this question, to ask you whether there is another government in Europe that stood up so bravely for Hungarian capital, for Hungarian businesses, for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Is there another government that has introduced the bank tax in a forward-looking and innovative way, the multinational sector, where, moreover, we have distinguished between the producer and the service sector, knowing that production should not be subject to separate taxes? Today, our critics have taken the example and introduced this practice in many countries. Honourable Congressman, When you talk about the current government posting xenophobic posters, it's a very good indicator of your basic position. In our approach, the current government always has the Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens and the Hungarian country in mind. For us, the rights of the Hungarian people, the rights of Hungarian citizens, the right to their own home are more important than the interests of others. We have to represent the people who live here, and we have to politicalise for them, both in domestic and international forums. What he mentioned was that we did nothing in the field of food safety: who were the people who suggested that GMO-free be included in the Fundamental Law? Who have introduced the EKÁER system, which is expected to increase VAT revenue by HUF 60 billion by the end of the year, in order to prevent the introduction of illegal feed and food? Who have introduced the food chain security fee, honourable Member, if it is not us? We are the ones who are doing everything we can to ensure that as many high-quality Hungarian foods as possible reach consumers. Instead of catching up, the policy of locking up is a very nice, usual panel for you, but that's not what the facts prove. Hungary has not been isolated from a diplomatic point of view at all [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] Hungary has excellent relations with its partners in the European Union, Hungary has excellent relations with the Visegrád countries, and thanks to the Eastern opening policy, we have developed intensive economic and political relations with many former Soviet republics. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] While the socialists closed the Ulanbátor embassy, we reopened this embassy. So I have to tell you, Congressman, thanks to God, we're going to go the way we've been going for the last five years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-10	Member Gergely Gulyás, member of the Fidesz Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Justice? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-11	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A quarter of a century ago, the first freely elected Parliament after communism, with its first decision, introduced the importance of the 1956 Revolution into the law. It also followed that retribution must not go without consequences. The Constitutional Court's activities after the change of regime, which is otherwise worthy of respect, are stained by the fact that, in 1992, the President of the Republic, in compliance with his motion, blocked the justice efforts of the Zétényi-Takács law, which was found to be in line with the rule of law, in the other communist states of the region and in Germany. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Fidesz voted no for him too.]] which would have guaranteed criminality only in the most serious cases - manslaughter, death-related assault, treason, the rest of the statute of limitations under communism - at least in the case of the most serious acts. Nevertheless, under international law, crimes against war and humanity, such as the involvement in the strangulation of the 1956 Revolution - under international law as an unjuvenated crime - were even convicted by the Constitutional Court. The Hungarian constitution in force is even clearer, so we deny against the Hungarian nation and its citizens the statute of limitations on the inhumane crimes committed under the rule of the national socialist and communist dictatorship. The National Assembly unanimously adopted the law by which the Hungarian State ratified the New York Convention on the prosecution of crimes against humanity and regulated the scope of the crimes in which the statute was based until the entry into force of the new Fundamental Law, without the participation of the MSZP faction in the vote in December 2011 on the basis of the statute of limitations laid down in the New York Act on the prosecution of crimes against humanity. These are the dry legal facts. On the other hand, the reality is that, apart from some judgments made in the volley of fire, which are not serious and which concern not a pro-state leader, In Hungary, the mass murders committed by the Communist dictatorship remained entirely unpunished. Not only did the hair of Gábor Péter, who tortured and murdered the masses of people, not until his death four years after the change of regime, but to this day, despite the legal and now constitutional provisions of all clear legislative intentions, the blood judges who sent dozens of people fighting for freedom and democracy to their deaths, the prosecutors who accused them and the Communist state and party leaders who decided to kill them live unharmedly among us. In this respect, it seems as if the whole judiciary interprets organisational and personal independence as independence from legislation. The shame of the country and the whole Hungarian justice system is that in the case of a 21-year delay against Béla Biszku, it was not possible to reach a final judgment in four years. In the case of Béla Biszku, who was the leading figure in the reprisals after the 1956 Revolution, who at the meeting of the Political Committee of the MSZMP on 10 December 1957 said: "The number of crimes of a political nature is too small and there are relatively few physical destructions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This one case - as the sea in a drop - and the events of the last 25 years in all of them show that, in the case of justice, not only intent, but also competence is lacking in order to at least symbolically retaliate against the crimes that belong to the darkest page in the history of mankind. However, we cannot be content to record as an external observer the insufferableness of the situation and the fact that what has long been no longer justice, in the last 25 years as a mere legal service, has been trampled on the memory of the victims. [[13.40]] Let us support together the proposal of the National Remembrance Committee, which, taking the Polish sample, allows criminal proceedings to be carried out in the event of the death of the perpetrator, like the rules on criminal proceedings against the absent defendant. Let us make it clear that in such proceedings the Committee on National Remembrance as a constitutional institution should not be appointed exclusively, but as at least one of the experts. The countless victims of communism paid with their lives because they fought for freedom and democracy during the dictatorship against dictatorship. For us who benefit from their freedom, it is our duty not to do so with the intention of revenge, but of restoring moral order, for the timely justice. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-12	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-08-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that there are no right-wing and left-wing politicians in a democratic country, but there are only democrats and anti-democratics, and those who consider themselves democrats have a clear opinion that Béla Biszku should be responsible both morally and legally for the actions he has committed. And that we cannot say this in 2015 and that there is no final decision on this, this is a 25-year Parliament failure. The fact that such a situation for the public - and for everyone who has lived here in Hungary in recent decades - cannot be judged by the court in four years, I think it makes people impatient or upset for a reason, especially those who were victims of the communist period, since the people who had been imprisoned, who had been listed as B-listed, who had been taken away from their apartment and had to stay in some small place for decades; who couldn't fill in the lead position because they couldn't work as employees because of the B-listing, even though they had their abilities; not to mention those who had to grow up as orphans or half orphans, or who hadn't seen their parents for years, for decades, because they were either in prison, or in Hortobágy, or in one of the other camps, because they had their parents or grandparents incarcerated there, well, these people, I think they didn't see their sense of justice and all of justice in this situation. At times like this, we feel that the law is not protecting the victims, it is protecting the perpetrator of the crimes, and Béla Bisku is victims, although there are only a few among us, but they deserve justice. Over the last five years, the government has tried to use Parliament's mandate to adopt laws, laws that can somewhat ease the pain of the communist period and put various decisions into the other pan of truth. One of the most important ones, perhaps, was Béla Biszku personally - like Rezső Rumány - the withdrawal of communist pension replacements, the government's decision in which the actors who, as a Communist state leader or a member of the then state parties, as a member of the KISZ, as a leader of the secret services or as a person who liquidated the democratic state order of the period between 45 and 49 were awarded the award because, in fact, they strengthened the communist dictatorship at that time, and not because of the real performance behind it - the additional benefits of these people were taken away by the Fidesz-KDNP government from one to the next. [[Novak Előd: Don't lie, he's taken his tenth.]] , a relatively long and...
u2015-06-08-14	I ask Mr. President Novak to restrain himself, or else I will be forced to remove him from the courtroom. [[Lies, no...]] Please, control yourself. [[I'll take care of it.]] Or I'll deny you the opportunity to do that. [[Foreman Novak: Shouting is a parliamentary genre.]] to take part in the debate today. It is unbearable, after all, that the background of every speaker is loud from your yelling! Please act like you're in Parliament, not in a pub. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Béla Bisku and his other 141 associates, including Rough Rezső, withdrew this pension supplement from the government. Then many, such as Rezső Raw, went to court, but the court also gave the government the truth, and this extra benefit for these people, this kind of privilege, has ceased, and from now on they will not receive such a senior pension. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But it is equally important to deny the crimes of communism as a crime, to which my fellow Member referred. And it is also important that, despite the pressure of the Strasbourg court, the red star continues to be an authoritarian symbol in Hungary, and its wearing is prohibited as much as any other XX. to wear the symbol of a dictatorship of the century. It was an important decision of the Parliament that twenty or a few years after the change of regime, it also abolished the last names and street names related to the communist dictatorship, the last Lenin streets or the Red Army streets in Hungary, in several smaller and larger settlements. It was also important for victims to be compensated that the government adopted a 50-50-percent increase in pensions for those who suffered long-term deprivation of liberty in 2013 and 2014. [[What about the agent lists?]] This was necessary because during the last three years of the MSZP administration, these pension allowances were frozen, and the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments tried to save on the pension allowance of the victims of the communist period. In addition, the length of the period has been delivered from three years to one year. Thus, the scope of those who can receive such an increased allowance is now more extensive. And I'd just like to put the rest in the headlines: the National Remembrance Committee is standing up and drawing up a list of power holders; it has to hand over documents to the D.A.'s office; or it is searching for the repressive system and revealing its operation. This year, the government announced a Gulág Memorial Year. During the EU Presidency, we accepted that 23 August was the year XX. The Day of Remembrance of the 21st Century Totalitarian Dictatorships [[Interjections and murmurs from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thus, this is the first European Memorial Day commemorating communist victims; the Parliament [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Five and a half minutes, Mr. President.]] and in a resolution he proposed visiting the House of Terror and the forced labour camp in Recsk for those attending school. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In case some Members have not noticed, I have interrupted Mr Secretary of State's comments and, of course, I have shown patience not only with him but also with others. When my impatient fellow Members yell at me, think that you may have been the beneficiaries of the chairman's patience once. Secondly, I find Mr President Novak's conduct completely unacceptable. I also believe that I would have the right to ban it from the remainder of the sitting without reprimanding or warning, but I have done the reprimand and the warning. Therefore, I am asking this House whether it agrees with the exclusion of the President of Novak from the remainder of the sitting. So, speaking in Hungarian, I am initiating the exclusion of Mr President Novák from the remainder of the sitting. [[Előd Novak: Because Béla Biszku's luxury pension cannot be criticized, that's why!]] In such cases, the House decides without debate. So I ask the House if you agree with my motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the motion was adopted by the House by 94 votes to 31, with one abstention. I would like to ask Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, to ensure the conditions of order for the remainder of the meeting. That's why I'd like to ask you, Mr. Novak... [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Should we lead him out?]] I do not ask you to lead him out; I would ask you to make sure that Mr. President Novak leaves the Chamber, or that he behaves as a human being, because there is no guarantee that he will do this on his own. [[Constant noise, interruptions.]] Now we'd like to move on, if you'll excuse us. The debate bans the President of Novak. Unfortunately, the presence is not linked to the rules of the house. But if you are dissatisfied with this, then, please, make a proposal that the two are linked, and I will be happy to support this in my group. I don't know if you can see the house rules... [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Does the Speaker support the MSZP's proposal?]] On behalf of Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP, she applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Vivat professores! It's an address. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman. And I call on the Socialist faction to reduce the optimism. Thank you. [[13.50]]
u2015-06-08-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My speech will not cause such excitement, since the kindergarten educators, teachers and teachers of kindergarten, and by the way, as we know, and as we have heard in the speech before the first agenda, on the weekend behind us and on the previous days, the country celebrated the teachers of whom we talk much but not enough. I do not wish to continue with the undeserving approach that the speaker before the first agenda has taken to use the mandatory teacher's day greeting sentences to tell his party his ideas about education and repeat his criticism of education policy ten times, twenty times, fifty times. I will not talk about this, but about the teachers, the teachers, who have been described by many writers and thinkers. They were called lanterns, the nation's day laborers, diamond grinders, or I would like to quote the XVI. The words of a century-old poet who wrote: The teacher's career is wider, more distant, more limitless than any other course, and as the fertile waters of the Nile flow beyond its own shores. A good teacher is not only a educator, but a gardener, philosopher, aesthetic, soul diver, artist and craftsman in one person, and not only conveys his knowledge, although he is not limited, but also gives an example, forms character, plants, weeds, grafts and eyes like a gardener, brings life to books, through books to teaching, builds a permanent and vivid bridge between ideal and everyday, abstraction and experience. This approach is very nice, and I could list the more beautiful and appropriate quotes that concern all the teacher's work, but I can't help but think that I shouldn't bring one of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's ideas here, who somehow writes that if the teacher wants his students to build a bridge, he shouldn't give them wood and tools first, but he should raise their desire for the sea. [[It's constant noise.]] Well, that may be the essence of the teaching profession to arouse the students' desire for the sea, for the future, for research, for learning. How can an educator do that? Yeah, it's not an easy profession, it's not an easy profession. In his own personality, his humanity, there are those reserves, but it doesn't matter how much the state helps him. We have heard in the speech before the first agenda here what kind of centralization the state has implemented. Let me quote József Eötvös - I do not quote but his thought - who, in his speech already held on 23 February 1840, explained that the state has a general responsibility in terms of how education takes place in a country and did not dispute it, while the same József Eötvös argued, of course, for the independence of schools. Well, that's exactly what we did when the government started in 2010 to strengthen the role of the state, but we also maintained the independence of schools and think tanks. József Eötvös is also associated with the declaration of teacher training and the establishment of a system of institutions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In 1848 he had already spoken for teacher training, and his ideas were finally realized only by Count Klebelsberg Kunó. We have also renewed teacher training, as a result of which, in the last year and this year, significantly more students and young people have applied to the teaching careers, in which the appreciation of the teacher's career is embodied. And I could continue to take all the measures through the pedagogical career, which has also been mentioned, but I would like to point out that every year the state and the municipalities and the directors and civil society are making very serious efforts to give as many excellent teachers as possible the award they deserve. It was a great pleasure to attend last week's Bonis Bona Award, to attend the awards given by Minister Zoltán Balog [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you can certainly see that not only the teachers, but also the parents and students were happy. Happy birthday to your colleagues. I wish them more strength, faith, and endurance. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-18	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I think we can say that we all have to pay tribute to our own teachers and to all the teachers who teach young people this last week, the 1 million 200 thousand young children who go to school; their year-long sacrifice, their year-long work, is a nice celebration of teacher's day. It is important that teachers should be honoured by the state, this should be reflected in morals, as in last week's awards, and also in material terms, as in the teaching career adopted by Parliament, and in the rise in related salaries and wages. This is also important, since we want someone at 18 to think about what career he wants, and he has the urge to choose the teaching career to become a teacher, so don't let him be discouraged by the fact that the salaries may be so low that he doesn't see that he can support his family, his children, from the salary he receives as a teacher. It would be good if as many capable 18-year-olds as possible chose a teaching career, teachers and teachers in the teaching field would stay there, preserve this, try to step forward here and see the perspective, see the opportunity in the teaching field. That is why we have introduced the career system, in which a woman still representing as State Secretary was a very important part. And many also apply these promotional opportunities, since in January 2015, 5195 teachers entered the master's degree, and with this, say, a 15-year professional experience and university degree, their salary could have increased from 264 thousand forints to 364 thousand forints; or 17 551 educators were enrolled as of 1 January this year. This means, let's say, a 12-year-old teacher with a college degree, an increase from 232 thousand forints to 256 900 forints, which we believe is suitable to ensure this high status of teachers. The government, when the sectoral wage increases were accepted here in Parliament during the last cycle, is among the first, and I can even say that the National Assembly was the first to accept the career of teachers, and offered this average salary increase of around 40 percent to teachers, which means a steady increase in wages from 2013 to 2017 and, obviously, a wage increase from far above inflation. In the first year, a very big boost was given to the salary of teachers, since then it continues to increase year after year, and will continue to do so until 2017, and well, not only to preserve its value, but also to increase the pay of teachers in large numbers. As we have already discussed here in the National Assembly, this meant an extra HUF 32.5 billion in 2013 compared to 2012, which the Hungarian government spent on the wages of teachers from the budget, HUF 120.9 billion in 2014, i.e. almost HUF 121 billion, and this year KLIK could receive HUF 38 billion in additional resources. From the next year, from the next academic year, some teachers will continue their activities not in the KLIK, but in the vocational training system, but those remaining there will still be expected to increase their salaries and wages by tens of billions in the following year, and this will continue in 17 as well. Thus, if we calculate the expected number of teachers in the promotional system in January 2016, then teachers II. About 11,000 of those entering the category can be expected, from a master educator around 4079 and 128 of them will continue their activities as research teachers. We can say that such a sectoral wage increase or career has not been offered to teachers by previous governments, such as the Klebelsberg Scholarship, has not been offered before. Of course, it was necessary to establish order at first, to return the undivided training during teacher training, since the modified system has led to quite a mess; the National Basics Plan had to be reviewed, and obviously we will still do so in the next five-yearly review period. We hope that this will enable us to create a higher prestigious, higher-acclaimed pedagogue career, a pedagogue, and we hope that many young people will choose the teaching course, and many educators will remain on the field, so that the education and education of the next generation will be in good hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2015-06-08-20	The last of the speeches before the agenda will be Mr Mirkóczki, betterman, with the title "On the Border of Madness." Here you go.
u2015-06-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is known to everyone, given a very serious and very serious, if you like, national strategic problem, which is closely linked to immigration or, if you like, to illegal migration, which is expected to create tensions in economic, social and social terms. Jobbik has been responsible for this problem from the beginning, and has tried to make you understand the essence of our professional proposal and proposals from the beginning, and from the beginning, when parties and some politicians did not even know whether to eat or drink illegal migration years ago, we have already drawn attention to what could wait for Hungary in a few years, and unfortunately this has happened. Now, let's see what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, Here is the Fidesz, which does not spare a billion forints of taxpayers' money for a simple campaign, which you call a national consultation. I would not analyze the content and quality of it now, but obviously everyone has a strong and firm opinion about it. But to avoid that being enough, another million forints will be milked with a giant billboard campaign on which to put a wide range of adjectives, let's just stick to a not too nasty term: we think that the neoprimite category will be fully exhausted, and I believe that this is the lowest and the peak of the political campaign of pity. Who are you sending a message to? They send a message in English to Afghans, Irishmen, Syrians or even Kosmetians. Are you serious? Or do you really think that anyone in Hungary will buy it and believe you - how shall I put it? No one can believe it, and neither will you. But let's face it, there's a reaction coming this way, of course. The reaction comes from the left, the MSZP and its various attachments, who act like it's a playground in Hungary, and as a kindergarten teacher who loses his game, starts a hysteria and damage. In fact, it is encouraging, but I would add, this is not new for Fidesz either, since in 2014 you have done the same damage with other billboards, including those of Jobbik's giant posters. In the case of Fidesz, we can admit all this to the shock in Tapolca, and in the case of MSZP there is plenty to know about their total social disintegration. I would add that the MSZP did the same primitive campaign that Fidesz is now doing, against dual citizenship in 2004, when it intimidated 23 million Romanians and turned Hungarian into Hungarian. Well, that's XX. The political product of the parties of the century, which you are showing today on this very serious and truly national strategic issue. And Jobbik is really trying to be responsible, really turning to the problem, and really putting proposals for solutions on the table to save the future and younger generations from the enormous social tension and problem that we can already see in some Western European countries, what mass migration causes. This was our proposal for the immediate restoration of the border guard, such as the closure of refugee camps, such as the immediate reversibility of a refugee who comes to Hungary, whether through us or through Hungary, because of the benefits of a specific economic or social network. But, of course, you did not support it in either case, of course, you always express your own opinions and tell us at the communication level, in many cases even more radical responses from us, but that remains communication. By the way, how credible this is, I recommend to you that you pay attention to Viktor Orbán's personal website on orbanviktor.hu, and specifically a speech he made in 2007 regarding the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. At that time, Viktor Orbán took a personal stand against the fact that the EU Member States should not manage immigration and immigration policy at their national level. Isn't that weird? And a few days ago, in Strasbourg, he says the exact opposite. This is what it would be good for you to see in it and pour clear water into the glass, what you really think and what you think about immigration policy, and do not think Hungarian voters are stupid, stop. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This primitive political circus. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-22	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will answer. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-08-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that we all agree that immigration or recent migration, which has reached Europe, is a problem that is a problem for everyone, also for those countries from which immigrants want to start and for those countries which are the target countries. From the very first moment, Fidesz-KDNP stated that Hungary does not want to increase its economy based on immigrants, building on immigrants. The aim of the Hungarian government is clearly to ensure that the growth of the Hungarian population ensures the supply needed for economic stability and the survival of the nation. Addressing the problem of immigration within the Member States of the European Union within the framework of the current rules is rather cumbersome. Our aim is clearly to achieve a return to national competence to address, decide on immigration issues and the possibility of this regulation. All Member States in Europe do not necessarily agree on how immigration should be managed. Obviously, there are many reasons for this. In recent days, too, there have been many or many immigrants in the country. With regard to your comment on the border guard, we can clearly state that the police are fully performing their border guard duties. The situation that has arisen today with regard to immigration is not an organizational issue. It is not a question of what organisation is dealing with immigrants, but of legislation and the legal possibilities allowed by the EU that limit the speedy reversal of immigration, illegal and basically better economic opportunities, immigrants coming here for a living. The police have only taken 515 illegal border crossings last day, and it should also be said that this year the number of illegal migrants has applied for asylum of more than 50 thousand, 52 838 people. So this is not an organizational issue, because in 2014 there were 42,000 such illegal border crossings all year round, and now, not even half a year, more than 50,000. Our position is that the European Union needs a new type of legislation that is significantly stricter than the current one in dealing with immigration. Obviously, every country is affected by this problem differently, which is why it must be given to each one to deal with this issue on his own terms and on his own. At the moment, there is a serious danger that if the Germans and the Austrians, who are obviously considered the most targeted country by immigrants because of economic opportunities there, are taking effective steps to protect themselves and the illegal migrants entering the Hungarian-Serbian border section are sent back to Hungary; the placement and return of these people to the original country will be our problem and task. That is why our aim is to do so in a national capacity. Illegal immigration is, of course, a violation of the law, which is why it is essential that this regulation is correct and that it protects basically the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2015-06-08-24	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-06-08-25	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda today; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, representatives from Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz; Péter Harrach, KDNP; János Volner, Jobbik. On Tuesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, István Ikotity, LMP applied for a speech after the agenda. On Wednesday, Mr Benedek, Mr Benedek, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik spoke after the agenda. No one came forward on Thursday's day after the agenda. István Ikotity, LMP applied for the speech after the agenda on Friday.
u2015-06-08-26	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the meeting of the Parliament will start tomorrow at 8:30, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at 8:00 a.m. and next Monday at 11:00 a.m. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame on a proposal from the House Committee. On this basis, the House Committee proposes that V/4855 on the state of health in Hungary. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the LMP Group, the Decision on certain house rules 37 In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the 24-minute time frame available to the political group will be doubled, i.e. to 48 minutes. Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. I ask this House whether it accepts the proposal for a time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the motion by 139 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that you have proposed a derogation from the House Rules. This is T/4730/597. You can get to know him on the website. The House Committee takes the initiative that the Parliament is T/4730 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the bill, the Committee on Budgets may submit the summary report and the summary amendment by 8 a.m. on Friday 12 and the political group leaders may submit a maximum of 10 voting motions by 14 a.m. on Friday 12 a.m. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members of Parliament present need a vote in favour. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal for a derogation from house rules by 159 votes to eight against and without abstention. The Fidesz Group proposed that, on this day of the Parliament's meeting, T/4288 on the promotion of the employment of students in school cooperatives and the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work. T/4823 to discuss the Commission's reports and the summarised amendment. It shall take place after the discussion of the legislative committee reports. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposes that at the meeting of the Parliament on Wednesday, the T4851 publication of Council Decision 2014/355/EU of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. The visible majority of the House has adopted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposes that on the Friday meeting of the National Assembly, H/5054 on the National Climate Change Strategy 2014-2025, with an outlook for 2050. The general discussion of the proposal for a decision should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that the Parliament, on Monday next week's meeting, should meet at T/4730 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. No decision shall be taken on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Before that, however, I declare that T/4884. At the request of the President of the State Court of Auditors, in the second-reading debate of the bill, the time frame for opposition will be increased to 10 minutes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 85. § (1) allows the Parliament to invite the committees negotiating the report to take a decision. In the absence of a committee consensus, this shall be presented by the President. The Parliament decides on this without discussion, separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Defence and Police Committee on risk analysis covering the major natural disasters in Hungary in 2012-14 and man-made disasters, on the state of preparation for the fight against disasters and on defence B/4859. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the committee to negotiate the report by 116 votes in favour, 53 against. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Committee on Sustainable Development to invite B/4860 on the implementation of the national environmental programme for the period 2009-2014. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that this House has asked the committee to take a decision by 114 votes in favour, 53 against and one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to consult B/2740 on the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in relation to electronic communications in 2011. the decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee to take its decision by 115 votes to 54, with no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Cultural Committee to consult B/3675 on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2014. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Committee was asked to take its decision by 115 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to be consulted by the Parliamentary Report of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office on 2014 B/4966. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee to take its decision by 114 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstentions. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/5096. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Commission's seat for representatives of the MSZP fraction will be changed in the presentation. The personal proposal is that instead of Bertalan Tóth, Zsolt Legény, Imre Horváth, instead of László Kiss, to the Committee on European Affairs, instead of Zoltán Lukács and Zsolt Legény, Zoltán Gőgös to the Committee instead of Imre Horváth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the personal proposals unanimously by 173 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:21 p.m., we move to interpellation negotiations for 120 minutes. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the President of the Rules of Procedure 124. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély I/5055. Mr Pintér, Minister of the Interior, has refused his interpellation No.3 as the motion does not fall within the remit of Mr Pintér, Minister of the Interior. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Where does it belong?]] Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély I/5055. Mr Pintér, Minister of the Interior, has refused his interpellation No.3 as the motion does not fall within the remit of Mr Pintér, Minister of the Interior. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: Where does it belong?) The explanatory statement indicates where it belongs. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Why do you support money laundering? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2015-06-08-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has become a country under your governance where ordinary people have received tax increases, but the rich have received tax reductions, because by eliminating the tax credit they have taken hundreds of billions of forints from lower-income families to give it to the rich. Hungary has become a country where the leaders of the tax authorities have been banned from the United States for corruption cases, not to be disproved; we are talking about a tax authority where they immediately strike for small administrative deficiencies, but they do not investigate the smooth VAT fraud of some circles and the VAT fraud of hundreds of billions. Hungary has become a country under your government where the government helps those who, in previous years, have withdrawn themselves from the public burden in Hungary by legal or illegal means, and have taken their assets abroad, while the people working honestly in Hungary have been subject to new taxes. You now want to pass a bill, an initiative, by the Hungarian Parliament, to help the crafty people and not the ordinary Hungarian people working honestly. In recent years, the oligarchs of Fidesz have cleared hundreds of billions of forints of public money abroad through various offshore companies. You now want to help them with another tax amnesty law, so that in a year's time, after paying 10 percent tax, you can take this up here in Hungary without the National Tax and Customs Office being able to investigate where these funds come from. It's the Orbán government's own money laundering law, which you want approved. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Secretary of State, So your money launderer's law will only tax those tax evasions who have saved their money from their dubious sources to offshore companies. This tells us who is supported by the Orbán government: not by decent people, but by crafty people, because they want to favour them now. I would like to draw attention to another aspect. In connection with the settlement obligation, you are selling these bonds, under which those who purchase it will have the right to bring in their income and, in a year's time, to obtain this legally after paying a 10% rate. This is how they make Hungary the centre for money laundering in Europe. I ask the Secretary of State why he wants to reward tax avoidance with 10 percent tax, why he guarantees them impunity with a money laundering law, why the Orbán government supports money laundering. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-28	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It would be appropriate to prepare for an interpellation before making a government count. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] and begins to criticize me because allow me to quote you from the activities and practices of socialist governments in this direction. For example, in 2006 you made a rule to achieve preferential taxation on member loans in companies. This was done, and the bill came into force on 9 June 2006, which was just 10 percent positive tax on negative cash registers that were untaxed in the books of companies. So, in 2006, there was such a practice during your administration. Now, can I ask you, was that money laundering, too? The next such practice, the law, was adopted by the Parliament in 2008. Your fellow factions are sitting next to you, voted by the LXXXI. It is a law that from 1 January 2009 until 30 June 2009 until 1 July 2009 allowed money from abroad to be legalised, whether you believe it or not, with a 10% discount in the country. This law seems to have gone so well or not well that it eventually extended its scope and passed a circular law until 2012. So when you accuse the current government or parliament of money laundering, you should first ask yourself, your own party, the Hungarian Socialist Party, because it was a practice under your government. And as for things that you have fled abroad or sent abroad, I think that your party will be more prominent in this too, as you remember the sentences of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And are you taking over or what? The president's ringing the bell.]] he sent the Hungarian man abroad, he could leave this country, he sent the young Hungarians. [[Moors and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But if we continue the line, we can also talk about András Simor, for whom you also claim that this practice is a money laundering exercise. András Simor, President of the National Bank of Hungary, held his investments abroad even as President of the National Bank, and another law was required to bring back his investments abroad. I believe that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament, has nothing to be ashamed of in front of Hungarian families, for example the personal income tax relief, the tax relief for children, which you have basically abolished, has been fully completed by the current government and, together with the tax discount for next year, the Hungarian families have been able to benefit more than HUF 3,600 billion since 2010. We believe that we, when we do not say that we bring home foreign income, when we are not taxed without penalty, are doing good for the country, and that man too, I think he can turn it into financing the Hungarian state budget. I think this is an internationally accepted practice, and, as I said, your government has taken advantage of this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-08-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman Bertalan Tóth if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept your answer because it doesn't come from the present. Where was it that, with government help, an MET gas offshore company could carry more than HUF 100 billion out of Hungary? Where was it that the owner of Quaestor in Liechtenstein was an offshore company where 150 billion fictitious bonds were lost? I could also mention the Eiffel Palace, where tens of billions of forints came to offshore companies, and the news today is that offshore companies selling settlement bonds could make 50 billion forints in profits. So we should talk about the present. Where were you in the past? These funds can now be laundered with 10 percent tax after a year, and no one will examine where they came from. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We will investigate every crime!]] Answer me that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[14.30]]
u2015-06-08-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. They regret even this low salary with the title "The People." Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-06-08-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In a few months, the number of public workers at KLIK has increased by 1,650, and other areas are also affected by this consideration. In the public media, too, employees were dismissed and then employed as public workers in the same job. Thus, the employer is 30-40 percent cheaper, of course, but the workers are worse off because they earn less. One of the advantages of being a public employee, the work undertaken in the public sector, would be that it represents predictability and security, if these concepts can be interpreted at all in today's labour market situation. This trend has also reached the largest educational employer, KLIK. Trade unions point out that the employer is increasingly reaching out to this instrument among staff directly assisting and operating pedagogical work. I must stress that Jobbik does not object to the fact that public workers are being provided with useful and meaningful work, but we consider the procedure to be outrageous that the employer will dismiss the worker solely for the purposes of saving money, and then continue to employ him for the same job as a public worker, even for half the salary. There are also pro-government representatives who have publicly acknowledged the real nature of the problem, but the ministries are pretending that the issue does not exist at all. The main reason behind all this is, of course, the under-financing of the public education sector. On the basis of the budget, this will remain the following year, and it may even become even bigger. Although the various experts and educational organisations have made a difference in the increase in the debt rolled since the establishment of the KLIK, some believe that the missing amount could amount to up to a hundred billion. This shows that this multiplely mutilated pedagogical career can only be held next year if other public education costs are spent less. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they use such tools in several sectors? If the economic situation is as good as they say it is, why can't they even maintain the status quo? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, What you have told me, honourable Member, is true of the opposite omen, since at the moment 805 persons working as government officials, civil servants or employees in the KLIK, at the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, are working as public employees. So the government's idea of entering into the world of work as a kind of Start Work Programme is successful for 805 people, because they all started working as public employees in the KLIK, and now they have government officials, civil servants or employment relations with the KLIK or other employment. So we managed to integrate them into the world of work through the system of public employment. It can't be a mass because it's the 2011 CXC. Act 61. § (1) completely prohibits teachers from being employed by teachers, not teachers as public employees. According to this paragraph, educational work, kindergarten education, school education and education, dormitory education, pedagogical professional service can only be seen as a direct occupation with children, pupils in pedagogical work, public employment or employment. Therefore, everyone at KLIK who has worked as a teacher is, of course, employed as a public servant, and no student is taught in a public employment relationship. They do work at the KLIK, they perform tasks that were not previously provided, and they are necessary. Based on the data of May 15, 4403 people work as public employees at KLIK, but as I said, they all help the work there. Some are cleaning, collecting garbage - this is the largest, 1600 - with administrative tasks, auxiliary work, trained workers, 420 people, as maintenance workers, 244 people, as janitors, 220 people in guard work, 114 people in delivery, or a few hundred others in training work. But they were all added to the schools where the public servants there were not enough to carry out the tasks. There have been tasks that the institution has not performed for years, and therefore the schools have requested public workers for this purpose. And only if the institution did not have sufficient status to carry out these tasks. Technically, it is impossible what the Member said, because in order to become a public employee, she has to go through a rather long procedure, which could take several months, so it is not possible for someone to leave the school as a public servant on Friday and return as a public employee on Monday. In this case, the administration is much longer. When district directors make their request to the government office and require public employment status, they must state - and in any case the district managers have done so - that the application is aimed at carrying out tasks for which there is no law for civil servants, public servants or government officials. So they do not want to replace public employees with public employees, but they are hired for extra tasks, and, as we have mentioned several times today, KLIK has the source of paying the teachers' wages: HUF 32 billion was in the first year of 2013, HUF 120 billion in 2014 and HUF 38 billion in the next year, and if you look at the non-skilled pedagogue, it will also result in a surplus of at least HUF 17 billion. So the process is reversed: 805 of the public employees became public employees in KLIK. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-37	Mr. Secretary. At the end of last year, 2300 people attended KLIK in public employment, as you mentioned, 4400 in May. I don't see why that would be a reduction. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: I didn't say it was shrinking.]] These people, who are involved in the operation and the provision of pedagogical work, are not, of course, public workers, but have not received a wage increase since 2008, since then their salary has not increased by a penny or even worse. I can repeat myself: there were also pro-government representatives who acknowledged that, unfortunately, this trend also occurred in the metropolitan institutions, for example, in disaster management. I am very sorry that the Secretary of State and the Government are still unwilling to see what is going on. So, of course, I cannot accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 25 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Why does the government legitimize tax fraud? It's an address. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-06-08-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Bill No 4884 presented by the government, called the so-called basic salad law 4. It amends the tax rules applicable to the so-called Stability Savings Account. There was a so-called tax amnesty before, but it wasn't thought through properly. The offshore property could be brought home at a reduced rate, but tax amnesties are typical of the tax administration starting rigorous investigations after its expiry, the non-living can expect sanctions, and there is also an infrastructure and institutional background for this. The Stability Savings Account introduced in June 2013 has exacerbated the situation in so far as it has made money laundering possible on a continuous basis, i.e. unexpectedness and limited time of tax amnesty are no longer met. And now they're making this system even more favourable. Even within a year, income is taxed by only 20%, which is lower than the average corporate tax rate in Europe. It's a gift for a drug dealer. [[14.40]] And the 10 percent over a year is simply invaluable, lower than the valid one, which is the same as the dividend tax. This is the slap in the face of all decent Hungarians. In addition, the person placing the money does not simply receive a stamp that the amount is legal, but even interest on the purchased sovereign debt. A further and striking feature of the system is that not only private but also illegal party funding would be legalised by the government. If Gábor Simon put his money in this account, no one would ask where it came from. The tip of the iceberg is that stability savings accounts can also be used by foreigners, i.e. if they place their wealth anywhere, they will receive a 10 per cent payment from the government of an EU country that the money is pure, taxed income. Hungary is not simply a tax haven, it is the world's money launderer. After that, there is only one strange thing that only those who place at least 5 million forints in the account can take advantage of this opportunity. Once the government legitimizes tax evasion, why can only the wealthy use it? In conclusion, with these proposals, the government legitimises tax fraud on a continuous basis. Dear Secretary of State, What does the government expect to do with tax ethic if it provides a legal, continuous opportunity to circumvent taxation, money laundering? In view of the above, we believe that not only the amendment should be withdrawn, but the whole system should be abolished. When are they gonna do that?
u2015-06-08-40	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Then let us first clarify what the concept of tax evasion is, because it is about knowingly concealing you, concealing certain income earned from taxation, and thereby reducing the tax revenue of the state. So, for this legislation, when you basically deposit an amount into the state's account, and then the financial institution pays the tax, it cannot be said that there is some kind of tax evasion going on here. In essence, a resource is involved in taxation and the financing of the public budget, which has not been involved in tax activities so far, so it has not been taxed. That's no advantage at all. If, for example, this source has been found to have been obtained from law violations, crime, then the tax, normal taxes, and, of course, other consequences have to be paid in the same way. Your example is very bad, because even if Gábor Simon paid in here, he would not be exempt from tax or other legal consequences. In fact, not even the foreigners mentioned by you, because in the event that you have earned your income, in the country where you find that this comes from a crime or lawlessness, you must also carry out the exploration of this amount and the consequences for the taxpayer, even if they are foreign, must be taken on board. Moreover, the managing financial institution is CXXXVI of 2007 on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It also carries out customer due diligence activities under the law on this matter, so it is certainly not a money laundering activity, since strict rules must be complied with by the person who undertakes to do so. I would like to say that we are not talking about a unique example in Hungary, for example, the same legislation was introduced in Germany at the beginning of 2004, it was also in force for a year, and the budget could have booked a number of billions of euros. However, the same rules were applied in basically Spain in April 2012, with a tax liability of 8-10 percent or a fine. But perhaps the most vivid example is Italy, where the highest revenue, a few ten billion forints of revenue, could be booked. In Italy, too, there was a positive tax rate of 5%, perhaps the most favourable, to pay these incomes and to tax them. So what I can tell you is that your concerns are neither realistic nor real, on the one hand, international examples, and on the other hand, Hungary's legislation protects you so that people, persons who may have the consequences of their actions, are not exempt from any criminal activity. This is simply a fundraising exercise, which is clearly supported by European practice, the practice of the European Union, and international examples. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-08-43	I cannot accept, I cannot accept, Mr Secretary of State's reply. Mr. State Secretary, your speech may even be encouraging to try to avoid tax, take it abroad, and then bring it home at a discount later. You argue with other countries and argue that new funds will then be available in Hungary. We believe that a few billion, ten billion forints will not save the Hungarian economy, but that the credibility of the entire Hungarian tax system is being undermined, and that it suggests a poor moral attitude for society. It is easy to lose much more if people avoid taxes more bravely because they expect more of them.
u2015-06-08-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interview to the Prime Minister's Office:.. Will the European Commission review the mandate of the Altus consortium of EUR 5 million? It's an address. Congressman Tuzson Bence has the floor.
u2015-06-08-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Hungary's Fundamental Law provides for Hungary's powers as a member of the European Union and how it transfers them to the European Union. These powers are thus delegated to the European Union, and Hungary transfers its own powers to the European Union. The fact that these powers are delegated also means that Hungary must exercise these powers together with the European Union. This also means that the European Union does not have unlimited opportunities, that the European Union cannot interfere in certain things in Hungary, that it cannot interfere in how party life takes place in Hungary, that it cannot interfere in democratic processes, and that it must be particularly careful not to undermine the democratic system in Hungary or to question the credibility of the European Union. Nevertheless, a rather strange thing happened: the European Union Commission entrusted Ferenc Gyurcsány's company, Altus Zrt., with a sum of HUF and a half to investigate EU development money at the head of a consortium in Hungary. This is also contrary to common sense, but it also contradicts certain principles of European Union law, and it must be excluded that not only in Hungary, but also in any EU Member State, any party president, any party leader, a party that is regent and functioning, should not receive money, and no support in this form can be achieved. Nonsense and oddly enough, the question of conflict of interest, the question of bias, has not been raised in this regard, since with such a step, when a party president's 100% company is financed by the European Union, party financing is prohibited in a disguised form. It is quite strange that the question of the public was not raised in this case, and that, to this day, I am aware, the application documents are not publicly available, and it is outrageous that both Hungarian citizens and the Hungarian government cannot access these data as data of public interest. [[14.50]] Transparency is particularly important, and transparency must not only apply in Hungary but also throughout the European Union, in all the Member States of the European Union. Accordingly, we are not only talking about a party financing scandal, but also about respect for the letter, spirit, equal opportunities and fundamental rights of our legislation. That's what this case is about. On this basis, I ask the Minister whether you believe that the European Commission will review the contract of engagement of the Altus consortium, and whether it is possible that Ferenc Gyurcsány's company will monitor the implementation of EU projects in Hungary. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-08-47	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the question, which, perhaps, is due to the fact that, last Tuesday, we continued a discussion with the European Commission's Directorate-General for Regional Development, with Mr Director-General, including with regard to this issue, so I have the opportunity to inform Parliament in detail. But before I do this, I would like to draw attention to a document, which is the number one reference to the current Hungarian government position. Of course, all Commission decisions regarding the examination of the last seven-year application system in Hungary and the quality of the tasks of the next seven years are determined, noted and respected, but we are trying to draw the Commission's attention to the importance of maintaining the Commission's authority in Hungary, because at the moment it is being destroyed, primarily by European bureaucrats. This paragraph reads as adopted on 25 October 2012 in such a way that, where the European Commission supports a person or, for example, enters into a contract to carry out a programme, this contract cannot be awarded to a candidate or tenderer who is considered incompatible with the procurement procedure for this contract or provides misleading information or does not provide information. In our view, it was the case that the European Commission has sought to use a Hungarian company to define the last seven years and future EU development policy in Hungary, and a tender has been launched in accordance with European rules, the task of monitoring, the obvious examination, the deduction of lessons and the definition of new directions. This is a EUR 5 million public procurement, which is part of a larger package of EUR 20 million. Altus Zrt. has applied for this public procurement. We hope that you have applied, we do not know, because we have not been given access to the documents so far, but I would like to return to that. What happened was that Altus Zrt. had to declare in the course of the procedure whether it was biased in the conduct of Hungarian cases, whether it felt incompatible or not. Altus Zrt. His leadership, Ferenc Gyurcsány said behind his back that he was able to judge the processes in Hungary impartially, without conflict of interest. I believe that's nonsense. Ferenc Gyurcsány, as leader of a political party, as former Prime Minister, I do not believe that he is able to judge things impartially in Hungary, nor the events of the last seven years, which he was a shaper and participant in, nor the prospects of the next seven years. I would also like to say that Altus Zrt. has four employees, of whom the Prime Minister's dear wife is on maternity leave, if I perceive correctly, and two were previously fired by the National Development Agency. Nor can it be assumed that they are impartial or that there is no conflict of interest. It is therefore my view during the hearing that the European Commission is incredibly embarrassing and embarrassing, that its colleagues did not pay attention to this and that the European Commission was obviously deceived by the applicant. Out of the 5 million euros, 400 thousand euros have been drawn, and we all know from the financial report of the Democratic Coalition that one of the biggest contributors is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who obtained income from Altus Zrt. It is very simple: the person who gives money to DK in the person of Ferenc Gyurcsány received his money from Altus, and the European Commission provides Altus with EUR 5 million as a framework, and then as an amount called by the European Commission. This constitutes a prohibited party financing under German and Hungarian law, and the group is, of course, inadequate to carry out the task, since it is not able to assess the situation impartially. The best thing the Prime Minister would do is return this assignment. If you're committed to your country, you're not trying to get party funding from your left-wing buddies, you're returning this assignment for the good of the country. My second point is that we have asked the European Commission for access to the documents, because the European Commission is examining every link in Hungary, every background on who decided to give the money to. I find it strange that you have failed to do so on this issue, so we would like to look at all the documents. Despite the need for transparency in Europe, the European Commission has refused to do so for now. It seems that transparency is not important there in the same volume as in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2015-06-08-48	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. [[To Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] Congresswoman, before I warn you, please, it's not your turn, but the congressman's statement is whether you accept the answer or not. Please, do me a favor. Thank you. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-06-08-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I consider it very important to have transparent finances in all the countries of the European Union and to have transparent finances throughout the European Union. There must be no shadow of the European Union's support, no shadow of the treaties concluded by the European Union, even if this is about examining EU aid in one country. And it is particularly strange that these issues are raised in relation to EU support, since the European Union's task is to ensure that these subsidies are transparent. And it's kind of weird when we conclude a contract to ensure that subsidies are transparent, it comes up in the same contract as whether or not there is illegal party funding. It is therefore very important that these contracts be reviewed. Yes, the European Union will review and, if necessary, Hungary will take the necessary steps. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title of the Ministry of Constitutional Violation. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Márton Bitay responds to the interpellation on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for the subject. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I have addressed this question to the Prime Minister, the title of which, of course, does not indicate exactly what it is about, but that the heads of the Ministry are inadequate, and it is quite spicy that a ministry leader will answer this question. Anyway, I'm looking forward to an answer, but you don't usually give a negative answer about yourself. Last week, the Constitutional Court has also declared a law or other provisions unconstitutional which are linked to the name of Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas. With these decisions, the Constitutional Court has demonstrated that the government has a minister who ignores its own Fundamental Law. He's doing this to serve the interests of the pro-government circles indefinitely. Ab involuntarily prevented the government's efforts to push over and play through the pals, as well as the permanent inability of the national parks. For the first time last week, Ab called the amendment of the Law on the Management of Land Assets unconstitutional, so despite the fact that the legislation adopted by the pro-government majority was adopted in April, the decision cannot be published. For now, it seems that Sándor Fazekas and our national parks have been saved contrary to the government's intentions. The Constitutional Court also stated that the interim substantive decisions of the Land Committees in the Land Law of Sándor Fazekas and uploaded with local Fidesz potentates, where they have been uploaded, should be subject to judicial redress, i.e. the Land Committees operate unconstitutionally, and therefore the relevant provisions of the Law were also annulled. We welcome the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The question now is how long will the Prime Minister hold his position, who, in recent years and at the last time, has subscribed to unconstitutional decisions and defended unconstitutional legislation with tooth and tooth. I think it seems to me that the Minister, but some other leaders at state level, should also leave this House. After writing this interpellation, life is a strange director, I'd like to quote an address from one of the newspapers, "The sheep is dying in the house." I quoted this because in the meantime, in the great heat, there were about 15,000 sheep left without pasture on Hortobágy, being in the lodge. So, Mr. Secretary, as to your answer, I'd like to ask you if you'd be willing to spend a day in the 46-degree heat between them. I would very much like to know if they would still maintain the decisions they have made in relation to this and the applications. I look forward to this answer, but I would have preferred that the Prime Minister answer these questions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.00]]
u2015-06-08-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-53	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your interpellation. Thank you, too, for giving me the opportunity to clarify some misunderstanding. The first and most important thing is the situation of the land committees in the Land Traffic Act, to which the Member has also mentioned. I would like to point out to this House that the Constitutional Court does not question the existence of land publishing committees, its regularity in its decision, but merely concerns its decision to extend the current provisions of the law in relation to remedies. By the way, interestingly, the Constitutional Court's decision explicitly emphasises that in its judgment there is no legislative pressure on Parliament, there is no legislative pressure on the legislator. In English, I would just like to say to you that the existence of land publishing committees is not a constitutional violation. And here we come to a very important question, because we cannot go further than the interesting way that the debate on land publishing committees in the European Commission and the left-wing opposition is constantly waking up, and we always find that we should decide whether or not the Hungarian Socialist Party is willing to cooperate in the decision of local farmers on the local land. It's a little bit of a feeling of excitement to see if we can get this land committee on some forum or if we can weaken the role of the land committees in some forum. The government's intention is clear about this, and we want the stronger land committees so that local farmers can decide on the local land issue. So I would ask you, my dear Member, to encourage these local land committees to be as strong as possible, and indeed with an appropriate remedy system, to make all decisions public and clear. With regard to national park land, I would like to stress that the government's intention was to achieve a uniform management of state land. Today there are dozens of state land managers, dozens of places where state land is managed, not uniformly, not from one centre, although the National Land Fund is the owner-owner of each Hungarian state land. We are talking about trust rights being exercised by the National Parks managed by the Minister of Agriculture or by the National Earth Fund managed by the Minister of Agriculture. Of course, we respect and accept the decision of the Constitutional Court. Obviously, the decision must be carefully examined and, therefore, a solution must be found in line with the written text or spirit of the decision on how to achieve a uniform management of the state's land. By the way, I would like to note in the national park fields that, when the Member had the opportunity to act as State Secretary in agriculture, between 2002 and 2010, the budget for national parks for protected natural areas was virtually abolished. He couldn't buy any more land. We are now spending billions a year to buy these protected natural areas. All there is to argue is that if you buy it, then who exercises the trust rights. But I accept that, of course, we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the land in Hortobágy, I would just like to mention to you that there were 53 large plants in Hungary that used more than 500 hectares of land. These areas were leased from you before 2010. Instead of 53 farmers, there are now more than 1,500 winners in the same area. I hope that this makes it clear to you that we support family farms, that the government supports the animal farming of family farms. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-54	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-55	Thank you for the floor. Well, we're rooting for you, Mr. Secretary, we're rooting for you, but you don't really think that in our time, there were articles like this, that the sheep is dying in the barn? That's the problem, not how many family farmers without animals got land, how many friends, how many families get thousands of acres of it, just eight grandma, grandpa, granddaughter, granddaughter - so it's easy to pick up so many people! By the way, Secretary of State, since the Ministry now has roughly enough powers to cut the Mangalica pig or dismember it, at least what they have to do, they'd do it normally. So don't try to explain the faulty legislation. Land publishing committees are only for Fidesz buddies, because they are designed without access to anyone else. From here on out, who's left with the land on the ground is obviously going to be decided by friends. How many owners does it cost, say, these committees? None, for example, because the law precludes this. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 39 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.; There are equals and equals. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2015-06-08-57	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The workers of the Hungarian rescue service save lives, yet their livelihood and respect are not dealt with by the government. A man working in an ambulance service, who recently shared his payroll on the Internet, wrote as a comment: "I am here after 21 years of rescue. Where are the guys in charge who are supposed to be in charge of making sure that doesn't happen? The man's salary was HUF 101 263. He added: "For 25 years, the current power has been deceiving people to put health care in order, but it is not happening, Mr. Secretary of State! Evasive rescue workers do the work in snow, frost, or even in the heat of a person. They carry the gurney, tend to the injured and save life. They do so by constantly putting themselves at risk of infection, being threatened, because they are not attacked in one case, or by doing their work in a dangerous environment, such as a busy intersection. Instead of an elevator, they often carry helpless patients down tight steps. They work a 12-hour shift, they rush instead of a lunch break, because a man's life may depend on a minute's delay. All this is done for an hour of HUF 485. Today, in a private apartment in Hungary, a cleaning woman's hourly fee ranges from 700 to 1500 HUF. The drop-out fee for professionals ranges from 2500 to 5000 HUF. Kiskunhill.hu's co-worker said with a rescuer: "I will ask my bosses to take away my salary because hunger is too much, but it is not enough to make a living. As a result of the low salary, the members of the rescue unit usually have two or three other jobs, as they also have to pay the bills, the instalments, and they also want to eat and their families, to buy clothes, not the latest trend, not the most branded one. I would like to teach their children, because although there is no tuition fee, reimbursement, travel, dormitory placement and textbooks are only to be purchased. Dear Secretary of State, Are there equals and equals? Is that really what an ambulance worker's job is worth? How is it possible that the salary of the four heads of the National Rescue Service is as much as that of 27 life-saving workers? It is incomprehensible why the wages of field workers are so humiliatingly low and their salaries are not rising. Dear Secretary of State, When will the government finally acknowledge the work of medical personnel in the ambulance? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-08-58	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Only one way of recognition is material appreciation, but it is one of the most important on the part of the government. This should show how much he appreciates the work of those who work in the ambulance service. I think, in recent times, if there are cases you've been referring to here, it seems to a lot of people very unfair. But the government, which it was able to raise on the central budget support of the rescue service and to vote here - of course Jobbik did not support it at all - tried to do so. [[15.10]] If you look at where the National Rescue Service started in 2010, the budget allocation of the OMSZ was HUF 23.4 billion, so we started from HUF 23.4 billion, and in 2014 we increased it to HUF 33 billion, and then, with the mid-year amendments, the budget support of the rescue service increased to HUF 37.5 billion, from 23 to 37 billion. This was also the opportunity to raise wages, as in 2012 and 2013 the government was able to provide wage increases to doctors, paramedics, paramedics and rescue car drivers. This meant an average extra amount of HUF 40,000 per month for rescue workers. There are a lot of other problems, we know, as the modernisation of emergency stations, the continuous new purchase and modernisation of ambulances are also important, but what directly affects their family farming is obviously an increase of HUF 40,000 in salaries. In addition, oxyology-emergency medicine has been recognised as a deficiency profession since 2010, and therefore those who choose and learn this have been awarded an Aurél Gábor scholarship in 2013, which also provides a tax-free allowance of HUF 200,000 for all those who undertake to work at the rescue service afterwards. We also tried to focus on further training and professional training for the workers inside. We have set up 18 skills development centres, called the skill labs, which could come from a grant of HUF 586 million in total in Szeged, Debrecen, Pécs and Székesfehérvár; and the emergency academy has another half a billion HUF. As I said, modernising ambulances can also improve the working environment of workers here. More than 300 new ambulances were launched between 2011-14. In 2015, 21 out of HUF 500 million and 32 new ambulances were purchased at the second stage, worth HUF 770 million, including 4 premature rescue cars. We're building 22 new rescue stations by the end of this year, and we're renovating 60. Some of these are already underway. We spend 11 billion forints out of a TIFO source. For the renewal of the rescue management system, which serves both the safety of patients and the more predictable work for the workers there, HUF 4.1 billion has been spent, and from January 2015 we introduced this gradually. Just as intelligent on-board terminals have been gradually installed in ambulances, training on their use is ongoing and the entire staff will soon be trained to do so. It was also an important part - you may have been here in Parliament when we talked about basicating the mobile rent elements, putting them in the basic wage. Overall, this represents more than ten billion HUF 12.8 billion plus plug-in benefits for the entire health sector. This will also mean a higher income for paramedics. This is how I trust, though, that, obviously, we must always show our moral appreciation for the life-saving paramedics, this has been somewhat successful, even if the rescue budget is from 23 to 37 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm looking at a relatively higher rate of increase. [[The president's ringing again.]] to strengthen financial prestige. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-08-61	Dear House, Mr President, I cannot accept this answer, because this 101,000 HUF salary came together with these so-called increases, which were five years' product, and it was a very low increase in this area. And not only in this area, but also in all other areas of the public sector. The fundamental problem, my fellow Members, is that if wages are not quickly changed in health care, in the paramedics, there will also be a huge exodus from here. As they barely apply to police, please, according to the latest data, Hungarian young people are going into health care, there will be no one to do these tasks. And to appreciate it, an EMT at 65 won't have to bring a 120-pound patient off the fourth floor on a gurney. Until these are corrected by the current government, there will be no change or only a negative change among rescue workers, and emigration will begin. Don't wait for this system to collapse, please. That's why I can't accept that answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 37 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Infinitely in the Carpathian Basin. What opportunities the Unlimited offers! program for students and their teachers? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2015-06-08-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, After the day of national cohesion, it is important to have an unlimited number of years of unbroken success! There is also a programme to be discussed here in Parliament, as it is important for public education and at the same time for national policy purposes. Travels to the areas and settlements of the neighbouring countries of the Carpathian Basin, which are inhabited by a Hungarian minority, enable Hungarian students to gain not only professional experience beyond our borders, but also at the same time to learn the lives of the Hungarian minority in need of minority existence and abroad. The aim of national policy is to ensure that the wider and more meaningful cross-border programme can promote the efforts to keep the tragic Trianon decision that was taken 95 years ago in memory of our young people, while at the same time being able to overcome this historical fact, thanks to which the borders of the Hungarian state and the Hungarian nation do not coincide today; yet the reality of a united, cross-border Hungarian nation is also known and lived. Since 2010, more than 30 thousand Hungarian students have been able to participate on study trips to cross-border regions such as Transylvania, Upperlands, Southlands, Transcarpathia, Slovenia, Mura and Croatia. The Unlimited! The programme set out two priorities at the start of the programme: the initiative of projects aimed at raising awareness of Hungarians across borders with Hungarian students and their teachers, and the promotion of cross-border personal encounters that are achieved through joint actions. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State what opportunities the Unlimited offer! program for students and their teachers in the future. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-06-08-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here in the Parliament we jointly decided on 21 October 2010 at 101/2010. Parliamentary decision, which required the government to give everyone who graduated from Hungary the opportunity to meet a Hungarian community across the border before graduation. Most of all, that's what the limitless has focused on over the years. program to provide 7th grade students with this kind of travel opportunity and meet not only a young person across the border, but also full communities, thus building a long, maybe lifelong acquaintance with Hungarians across the border. We saw that for many Hungarians, unfortunately, in the referendum on 5 December 2004 the awareness of national cohesion was not so clear that there could have been an overwhelming majority of the yeses, so it was important for all of us to have a strong relationship between Hungarians and Hungarians. For many young people who participate in the Unlimited! In a program, it is shocking that he travels hundreds of kilometers for several hours, and then he reaches an area in Szeklerland where the people of Szeklerland think the same way, speak the same way, sing the same songs, or grow up with the same tales as he himself. For many of us, it was a natural gift, but for some, it is a new experience and discovery. We hope that they will consider national cohesion to be an important baseline from now on. You can also say the limitless! Since 2010, more than 90 thousand Hungarian and cross-border students have participated in the programme. Between 2010-13, 30,000 students, 17 034 in 13, and 44,000 students in 2014 could travel to Transylvania, Upperlands, Southlands, Transcarpathia, Slovenia or Croatia. [[15.20]] This is obviously an educational-educational excursion, but it also includes cultural programs and visits to attractions. This year's budget amounts to more than HUF 1 billion, HUF 1 227 600 000. For this reason, more than 40,000 Hungarian and cross-border students are expected to be able to travel without limit! I'm in a program. As usual, calls for applications can be found on the Human Resources Support Manager's website, where they receive the funds, a maximum of HUF 35,000 per person in the seventh grade, a maximum of HUF 40,000 per person in the case of high schools, and a maximum of HUF 50,000 in professional secondary schools, which can then be used to organize the journey and hold programs. Several applications are currently available on the website. For the seventh grade students and their accompanying teachers, the tender is written almost continuously every year, and even every year is continuous. There is also cooperation between high schools, but let me draw your attention to the action programme in Transcarpathia, which is clearly an additional opportunity for everyone to develop relations in Transcarpathia and receive students there. I think it's the limitless! We can evaluate the programme as an extremely successful programme, as it has set the best goal of providing young people, young people from primary school, secondary school or secondary school with the opportunity to meet within the borders of Trianon, but for young people from across the current borders. It also means a professional relationship. This year we are holding the year of Hungarian vocational schools abroad, and therefore the links between vocational secondary schools are highlighted, so that they can get to know each other both in terms of learning, their studies and their human relationships. We hope that these will not only be virtual connections on Facebook, but long-term relationships that connect Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-08-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, of course I accept it. As Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion and as a member of the Carpathian Basin for decades, I have very positive experience with this programme. Our committee has recently heard a detailed report on a separate agenda. Not only did we learn about government experience, but we learned about Unlimited! They have also had very positive experiences for many years in the programme; in addition, improved criticisms and suggestions that could bring this programme forward. These proposals are, by the way, forwarded to the government by Deputy State Secretary Sipos Imre. Further construction and step-by-step increase in budgetary resources are necessary to complete this limitless! It's a program that's bound to be good. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: When can women who have been raped count on the government's help? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2015-06-08-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Secretary of State, Originally, I wanted to interpelle what would happen to the Government's promise to ratify the Istanbul Convention on the Elimination of Violence Against Women in the Spring Session, but then we saw Minister Zoltán Balog's proposal for a decision on relationship violence, and it was immediately clear to everyone that you had no intention of ratifying the Istanbul Convention either in this session or in the next. In addition, the current national strategy will be withdrawn. Be clear to everyone: this Balog proposal actually asks the Parliament to authorise the government to continue doing nothing. On the one hand, it is a general document containing non-binding and unaccountable targets for the government, which will give the government until 31 December 2016 time to review the strategies so far, while rescinding the national strategy against family violence in 2003, saying that it can be considered to be fulfilled. It's actually a lie. The overall strategy of 2003 contained specific tasks and specific commitments, most of which have not yet been met. Instead of trying to meet these strategic goals, the Fidesz-KDNP Government has withdrawn this and is presenting us with a non-negotiable wish list, not agreed with civilians, while not saying a word about the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. In fact, you are playing to stall, and you are trying to withdraw from the ratification of the Istanbul Convention with an empty proposal for a resolution, so you are trying to buy time. Unfortunately, I have some bad news for you. There is such a saying that those who buy time gain life. But what about the Hungarian women and their children who are victims of domestic violence? What happens to those women... - in this country, a woman dies every week in a relationship or because of domestic violence. And you are able to withdraw the 2003 strategy, and to remove the ratification of the Istanbul Convention from the agenda in a daring manner. You have a lot to do. On the one hand, the institution of distance is not effective in this country and on the other hand, the supply system is insufficient. A tenth of the space required is available in this country. What does that mean? Beaten mothers and their children would run away from the abuser and have nowhere else to go. But you're gonna let the police down, as well as any specialist in victim protection. Technically, these people would require regular training, but they don't get it. They came to me, they said they'd go because they'd like to work better, but they don't have the tools. There are no sensible prevention programmes in this country. I don't want to mention the famous Baranya training video. I'm glad the LMP could have been a part of not getting in front of high school students. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, One word for you, "May Other" requires immediate action from you, and we demand the ratification of the Istanbul Convention.
u2015-06-08-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-06-08-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear fellow Members, I am convinced, by the way, that aggressiveness cannot be done against violence. So I'd like to ask you for a more moderate voice in the first place. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The other thing is, if I didn't know you were a smart woman, I would think you didn't read the material or read the 2003 resolution. He mourns a 2003 resolution, a parliamentary resolution here, which could not, by the way, contain the Istanbul Convention adopted in 2011. So I don't just understand your logic. Now he asks us why we are not ratifying the Istanbul Convention, and he laments a 2003 parliamentary resolution that could not contain an international convention or reference to it in 2011. So, really, I just don't understand you, Congresswoman. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] In 2003, the Parliament adopted a parliamentary resolution, which defined various tasks for the current government at the time, by the way. I am not asking you, nor can I, nor can I ask you to account for what happened and what did not happen in this case during the period between 2003 and 2010, but, by the way, during 2010 and 2015, very much has happened in this case, and if you look at the various points of the 2003 parliamentary resolution, then we can conclude that, yes, a number of things from this parliamentary decision have been successfully achieved. Here are the specifics: introduction of a far-reaching provision, extraordinarily guaranteed for certain procedures, confirmation of witness protection rules has been achieved [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Have you read the murders of the past few weeks, Madam Secretary?]] , the preparation of different protocols has been completed. Unfortunately, you did this in part, so I wouldn't exactly complain about it here, because you've been doing some things. The crisis centre network has been set up, by the way, the crisis centers, which you have challenged, have been increased by one and a half times between 2010 and 2015, so the number of seats here has increased by one and a half times, and the supply system has also increased by one and a half times. A secret safe house has been set up. By the way, we have introduced a provision that allows a victim of violence to be placed somewhere, not in the place in question, but in the country as a whole. I think that's another important step that we've taken in this case. By the way, I visit these centers regularly, walk among these people, talk to the victims. We are listening to what is a problem for them, and not one of them has asked me to ratify the Istanbul Convention. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Noise, intervention from the opposition benches, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's how they must know him, right?]] This is not the solution to their lives, nor is it the adoption of parliamentary decisions. And what's new in the parliamentary resolution? We focus on prevention and stress the importance of prevention. Congresswoman is calling for cooperation with civilians. This expressis verbis is listed as: the effective cooperation of government and non-governmental actors, I quote, from the parliamentary resolution. So I suggest you really study this proposal. [[15.30]] By the way, in the next EFOP support cycle, we will spend nearly HUF 2.3 billion on this supply system, specifically the victims of contact violence. And then, as a closing point, one last thought about the Istanbul convention. You know as well as I do: the Istanbul Convention is much more than the Parliamentary Resolution on Relationship Violence, and the Parliamentary Resolution on Relationship Violence covers a much wider circle than the Istanbul Convention. I don't know who remembers what kind of government was on March 14, 2014, I remember that Fidesz-KDNP, that's when we signed the Istanbul Convention, and I would like to remind you of that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It should be ratified, shouldn't it?]] I would just like to say that France, Sweden has ratified the Convention in 38 months, or more than three years. [[Dr. László Kács: So what?]] Austria in 30 months, Slovenia in 41 months. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Would you like to get to the end of the line?]] Please let us work, it's a serious job, and we'll do our job with responsibility. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Gőgös: This should be performed by the woman murdered in the Pope, she cannot be resurrected. She was killed by her husband with 32 stab wounds.]]
u2015-06-08-72	Thank you, Madam Secretary... [[Noise. It's ringing.]] - thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. With all due respect, I would like to ask all my fellow Members to respect both the Secretary of State and the woman. [[Noise, interruptions.]] And please wait until Congresswoman responds. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-73	Madam Secretary, what I weep for and what I do not weep for is not a matter of this House... [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz: Will you accept it?]] But I'd like to make one point. You and the people who do not give that 8 billion forints to ratify this Istanbul convention will mourn one sacrifice a week. This will be your crime! The fact that practically one woman is killed once a week in this country will go on until there is effective victim protection. Madam Secretary, this is not the point where you have to hide what you have placed on the table. In this case, each Fidesz and KDNP representative has to look his eyes off and say why I didn't give him the 8 billion forints when they spend 500 billion in the 2016 budget on all kinds of nonsense: Paks, Eximbank capital increase, motorways, stadiums. There is money for everything in this country, but there is no money to protect women and their children. Madam Secretary, I cannot accept your answer.
u2015-06-08-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 25 votes in favour and 18 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why are immigrants more important to Gyurcsány's party than Hungarians across the border? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2015-06-08-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In Europe, Hungary is the second most heavily burdened country in terms of asylum, compared to the population in Sweden. This year nearly 50,000 refugees have arrived in Hungary, already more than last year. By the end of the year, this number may exceed 100,000. Europe's borders must be protected, and Hungary's position is not radically different from that of the European Union, as we also believe that the problem must be addressed at its root, i.e. it is possible to create conditions in the issuing country that will help immigrants to live. Europe does not need immigrants, but rather a good family and employment policy. There is therefore a need for joint European action, but each country has its own aspects, of course. The national consultation on illegal border crossings is currently under way, in which we ask the Hungarian people whether they agree that illegal border crossings should be detained, that they should be deported immediately, and that while they are in Hungary, they should work to ensure the cost of their subsistence here. Dear Secretary of State, It is shocking to us that the Democratic Coalition is clearly on the side of immigration when it comes to aliens, while Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Hungarians from abroad have always been hostile. The Gyurcsány government and the MSZP spent hundreds of millions to turn the Hungarians born in Hungary and abroad against each other before the referendum on 5 December 2004. Let's just remember those posters. Therefore, the question arises: why immigrants are more important to Gyurcsány's party than Hungarians across the border. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-08-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The problem of immigration, economic refugees or those targeting Europe, especially Western Europe, is a serious issue and a serious problem throughout the European Union. The European Union's position on how to deal with this issue is not uniform. The European Union is not united in what can be done or what needs to be done to ensure that these economic refugees find their way in their own country and do not try to find a new home in Europe or elsewhere. It is true that only 515 illegal border crossings were taken by the police, which also carries out border surveillance tasks. This is also a very interesting and shocking number, since 2157 illegal border crossings came to the country all year 2012, and in practically four days the 2012 number will be fulfilled. Growth is extremely rapid, while the number of asylum seekers in Europe has increased by 30 percent, while in Hungary this increase was 800 percent during this period. The increase in the number of applications, as Mr President pointed out, will continue this year as 52,838 asylum applications have already been lodged this year. It should be noted here that a large proportion of asylum seekers are not real refugees, because there is no war in their country, they are not chasing him or his family, they are not in danger of life, they are not persecuted because of his religion. Most refugees arrive through the Serbian-Hungarian border and, for example, Kosovo's Albanians flee or arrive in large numbers in Hungary, and obviously in the European Union, clearly their goal is to make a better living. The change on the asylum issue is also felt in Germany and Austria. On the part of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, there have already been statements that buses will return refugees who arrive illegally in Austria to the Hungarian border. Thus, the situation may arise that, in the western part of Hungary, where people have not yet directly encountered the issue of refugees and the problems of asylum, they can become the number one sufferers or sensors of this problem. At the moment, the Immigration and Nationality Office places asylum applicants in the host institutions, and last year we spent 2.4 billion forints on this. It is true that the left is today a sharp attack on the government's immigration policy. It is an interesting fact that when the dual citizenship campaign took place, Hungary was marked by the fact that Hungarian citizens who won Hungarian citizenship, who appeared in Hungary as refugees or immigrants, on the basis of the better economic situation of Hungary. It is indeed a very interesting turn of events that, let's say, the refugees in Kosovo or Syria or Pakistan are more likely to be seen here than those of Hungarian origin, as Ferenc Gyurcsány, for example, was instigating the country by moving 800 thousand Hungarians into the mother country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Clearly, the government must do everything in its power to decide who to accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2015-06-08-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-08-79	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. I accept your answer because it reflects a responsible attitude. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] This is what is needed at the moment when the situation is indeed extremely acute. We could see from the numbers how much pressure our border is under. I think that this is the moment when we must also do it in Europe for the future, and we must also do it in Hungary. It is therefore right to ask people what they think about this, and I also ask the representative of the government and the government itself to consistently represent the position of the Hungarians in relation to the responses to the national consultation, which I think will be explained, which is clearly that this wave of immigration needs to be addressed. The right steps must be managed consistently, responsibly - not as the opposition's parties did and do - in the interests of the Hungarian future. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the hospital in Marcal regain its economic autonomy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From 1 January 2013, the hospital in Marcal became a state reserve, and from the spring of 2013 it was converted into a member institution of the hospital in Kaposvár. Marcal Hospital became a typical case of a medical horse. This is where they first established a centralized hospital that is now being copied nationwide. They do this despite the fact that it quickly turned out that the system is not working. The various departments of the hospital are now directly assigned to the specific departments of the hospital in Kaposvár, so the residual principle of the operation of the hospital in Marcal will apply from now on. The city has been particularly painfully affected, since the hospital has been continuously developed with the help of applications, and in the last 13 years alone, 400 million has been spent on it. The largest investment was the development of the surgical block in total of HUF 1.7 billion from targeted subsidies, even during socialist governments. As a result of the recent transformation, the number of beds in the hospital has decreased, departments have ceased to exist, and asset supply has also deteriorated significantly, as more new and modern equipment has been delivered to Kaposvár. As a consequence of all this, professional migration has also increased. In addition, more and more cases of travelling to the remote Kaposvár for supplies, all of which the region does not have properly designed transport infrastructure between Marcali and Kaposvár. Understandably, therefore, dissatisfaction is increasing not only in Marcali but also in Marcali. Dear Secretary of State, A well-functioning hospital in Marcal is in the best interest of the local population. Everyone agrees that the hospital worked better as a fully independent unit, but as a compromise, restoring the autonomous administrative and performance measurement unit would also be acceptable to the Marcalians as a necessary step to prevent further deterioration of the hospital. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether they wish to return it and, if so, when the autonomous administrative and performance measurement unit of the hospital in Marcali is to be returned. And I'm also asking you if you're going to draw reasonable conclusions on the transformation of other hospitals from this case. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-08-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the transformation of health care over the last five years, including in February 2013, when this decision was made to provide high quality and equal access care for everyone in the inpatient care system at home, there should be no difference between different points in the country. As I said, the integration of the Somogy County Kaposi Mor Training Hospital and the Marcal Hospital took place in February 13th. What was the reason for that? You said it worked excellently and well. Well, this hospital has accumulated a debt that it could no longer handle itself. The 250 million HUF supplier's debt that was in the hospital was completely impossible for the hospital to settle. In order to ensure the continued sustainable and cost-effective functioning of the institution, people in Marcali have access to a secure and high-quality health care system, emergency care and a substantial improvement in outpatient care. This has been achieved, as today we can talk about improvements with the guarantee provided by the merger. In 2015, a total of HUF 240 million was developed under the TIOP project at the Marcal site, with a new emergency department of HUF 22 million and an emergency equipment of HUF 45 million, and the purchase of the CT equipment necessary for the operation of the new emergency department is currently under way. This project will also include the development of a new heating kitchen and the purchase of the necessary equipment. This is an additional 43 million forints additional source for the hospital. An additional HUF 100 million will be spent on the development of the instruments of the central operating room, and HUF 28 million will be used for the various IT developments. So these are the sources, so these are the amounts that would have been able to get to Marcali under stable management and help all patients to recover. Some laboratory and pathological samples are transferred to Kaposvár for more cost-effective operations, but emergency laboratory tests are still available for everyone in Marcali. As the Member can see, the safety of patient care at Somogy County Kaposi Mór Training Hospital in Marcali is not only in danger, but significant improvements have been made in the institution with the help of EU funds and are being made this year in order to ensure more quality care. The human resources problem was also an issue that the Marcal hospital could not have dealt with alone, but now the provision of specialist care is much safer for the population of Marcali and its surroundings. We believe that this was a more optimal operating framework for both human resources and farming for the hospital in Marcal. It was the only way to stop the growth and stabilisation of debt. You are well aware that county health economic committees and county health management committees have been set up, according to the ministerial instructions, county health management committees propose changes to inpatient care and integrated outpatient care capacities and care areas for the next financial year by 30 June of each year. Therefore, the committees have started preparing their proposals on the health care system, and they will make such a proposal, as you have said, if it is technically justified. If it is not justified, then obviously your proposal will not be supported or promoted by this professional committee of local people in the county. However, you can be sure that both for hospitals in Kaposvár and other county hospitals and for all hospitals in the 60 billion-dollar financing framework have also been redeemed in the past period. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-85	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept the answer because it wasn't my request. It's the people of Marcali's request. Under Secretary of State, in a town of about 12,000 people signed in a few weeks, three thousand people asked to restore the hospital's economic autonomy. They're not asking for any more money, they're asking that whatever money they're signing goes there, and they can account for it, because right now, Kaposvár's skimming this money. What is happening is not that the whole operation has been rationalized, but simply that the financing of the hospital in Kaposvár is being managed through Marcalin. Brand new instruments were shipped to Kaposvár, and practically the professional supply was discontinued. Today, doctors have to come from Kaposvár, because because of the precarious situation, they went to Keszthely, they went to Kaposvár or to work abroad as well as doctors and nurses. [[15.50]] The situation is untenable. Please listen to the locals and make their decision to restore economic autonomy in the interests of the locals.
u2015-06-08-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 44, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "Do you plan to review and rationally reduce the amount of curriculum in the over-expansion of the National Core Study Plan and the Framework Plans? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-06-08-87	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Three years ago, the government adopted the new National Basic Learning Plan, which was introduced in the school system as of September 2013. At that time, NAT was a subject of intense debate, with a number of professional organisations and educators predicting their concerns about the fact that the amount of curriculum required was very oversized. You did not listen to these arguments in substance at the time, and indeed, Minister, you have even stated that the final NAT is a minimum of national knowledge. During the discussions on NAT, Jobbik also had a number of suggestions, we missed and missed important elements for future Hungarian generations from the curriculum, but our suggestions would not have increased overall the amount of the curriculum. Since the new NAT is teaching in this academic year already in six years, during the past period the teaching of everyday life, during the course of learning, teachers could face the fact that they are almost impossible to expect from the compulsory curriculum. The curriculum in the NAT and the framework curriculum is oversized, and even for children with an average ability it is almost unteachable. Not to mention that the required standards in the curriculum should also be met by students who are having difficulties in integration, learning and behaviour and who are entering the public education system, who unfortunately are growing. Practicing educators can tell that this is impossible, especially within the framework of forced integration, with teachers without special qualifications. Another serious problem is that the creators of NAT and the master plan did not take into account the age characteristics of children. In the new generation of experimental textbooks, not only a great deal of new knowledge has been crowded in, but the teaching and learning of certain subjects is required at an earlier age than before, which is also a serious problem. It is not negligible: according to an OECD survey, Hungarian students spend much more time doing homework than their counterparts in other countries. Of the 29 countries studied, the Hungarian children are the fifth in this ranking. They spend 1.3 hours more than the OECD average with a week of study and preparation at home. It is of particular interest that students studying in the Finnish educational system, which has been mentioned a lot and which has been shown to be an example in many respects, learn half as much at home compared to their fellow Hungarians. On this basis, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you how you plan to reduce the burden on children and teachers and whether you plan to review the amount of curriculum in the over-expansion basic curriculum. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-06-08-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me start at the end, because the last example of the Member is a typical example of how to manipulate with half of certain series of data and create some misleading feelings. You said at the end that according to the Finnish example, half as much homework is done, Finnish children spend half as much time on homework as Hungarian children. If the following paragraph had been quoted by the Member, it turns out, however, that the number of teaching classes of an average Finnish school is 1023 more than that of an average Hungarian student. So it is not worth taking such semi-phrases out of an OECD study, it is not worth trying to justify its truth, because if you look at it carefully, you can see that there are clearly some nuanced facts in the same report. So please, if you quote it at any other time, be fair, and not just quote the report that supports you, but also what supports reality. The National Basic Training Plan itself, as you know, is about a large number of peer-reviewed and methodologically controlled educational and educational processes. The NAT as a National Basic Lesson Plan and the framework curriculum only sets out the optimal set of requirements related to the age group and the class of subjects, which are obviously implemented by teachers day by day in their work. The amendment of the NAT in 2012 made the system more open than before, creating more educational material and a more open system. So it does not increase the volume of NAT such a change for teachers, but it expands their options, as teachers themselves, schools themselves, have much more concrete choices; they are not obliged to teach them everything, but I think that if we increase the choice, it will benefit all teachers, all students. Overall, however, it can be concluded that during the last NAT review, the curriculum itself was reduced compared to the previous one, so what you indicated as a direction was in line with the direction of the government in 2012, so you could accept the answer. And the requirements are subject to regular review and rationalisation ourselves. You know that the next five years of such a regular review is expected in the 2017-18 academic year, so NAT should be reviewed by then. So the next thing you know, this could also be on the government's table. Then we should also look at the effectiveness of the educational objectives set out and formulated in the NAT; if there is a contradiction or failure to function, which part is the fault. Special attention was paid to the recent renewal of NAT to transfer practical knowledge to support competence development. We should also pay attention in the next review to whether teachers themselves have methodological background knowledge that enables them to pass on this skills-enhancing knowledge or require further training. In the light of experience, the proportions may be clarified in terms of lexical knowledge and basic competences. What you may have quoted as an increase in the number of hours may come primarily from everyday physical education, which, I think, is an important goal in terms of health preservation, so we can all support that. As a result of the choice of compulsory religion or compulsory ethics, new classes were added to the student's curriculum for an important purpose. So on this basis, I would ask the Member to make his position a little more nuanced. We all strive to develop an optimal national core curriculum for students, which can be well managed for teachers. I believe that the government has made a lot of progress in this quality step in recent years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-90	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-08-91	Dear Secretary of State, The problem with you is that you are always involved in political debates, and here we should be discussing a professional position, which, moreover, confirms not only Jobbik's position, but also a number of people and professional organisations, as we say. Allow me to quote three. Péter Horváth, president of the National Pedagogist Faculty, said the same things, as we said, that this amount of teaching material is unteachable for children, and compulsory hours are also high. He said in his own words that children often have 36 hours of mandatory duties. Let me also quote the Ombudsman. László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, also said that in many cases children often carry out the task in a larger number of hours than employees. But the National Association of Hungarian Parents confirms this experience. So you are not arguing with me, Mr. Secretary of State, but with these people and organisations. A few minutes ago, you praised the teachers in your speech before the agenda, but I think it would be worth a lot more if you listened to the teachers' comments, instead of trying to deal with the matter with it with such words, but instead heeded their point of view. I cannot accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 34 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The sport should be yours! It's an address. It is for Congressman Mátyás Firtl. [[16.00]]
u2015-06-08-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As a Christian Democrat, as a representative, we believe and believe that one of the most important values of our society, the pledge of our future, is our children, so we must strive by every means to ensure that they are able to live a healthy life, that healthy generations grow up, with healthy physique and spirituality. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] When we took over governance in 2010, we learned the data about the public health situation, and we had to face the fact that we are uplifters in terms of sports habits in the European Union, and only 5 percent of Hungary's population plays sports. About 75 percent of young people who were required to study only did any kind of exercise during physical education, which alone was not suitable for ensuring healthy mobility in the age group. That is why we have decided to introduce everyday physical education in an ascending system, resulting in 889 thousand students moving every day and thus living healthier. From September this year, 1 million 170,000 children will attend their physical education classes every day. So from this year on, we get children to play sports for 12 years each teaching day. That's a very good result, but we can't stop here. Over the last few weeks, billboards across the country have announced that the government is launching another program to guide our children to a healthy lifestyle and active sport. The central coordination programme helps children's choice of sport in a specific way by introducing sports in public education institutions by linking local sport supply and demand. The programme is a complex, modelled initiative, which results in significant improvements with a broad cooperation between associations and sectors. For sports, it provides the tools, the knowledge needed to use them, and accepts sports within the walls of the school, which have so far only existed within the framework of an association. Based on all this, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what results have been achieved, and let the sport be yours! It's a program. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-94	I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Simicskó.
u2015-06-08-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we have set a threefold target system for strengthening sport. One of our goals is to have all Hungarian children play sports, the other is to bring as many sports events and world competitions to Hungary as possible, and the third is to build the necessary facilities so that our children can play sports under cultural conditions. What Congressman asked me was a new programme, a successful programme. We started this program two months ago, it's your sport! It was given the name of the program. This is a specific sport recruitment, which is about linking children who want to play sports, school-age children with the sports world, associations, local sports clubs, just in order to achieve the great goal of making all children play sports and, if possible, as many as possible, justify themselves to associations and clubs. So this is how we can introduce our children to the sporty way of life. And through this, we're expanding the supply base for our top sports. In the last two months, we have organized 14 county events, more than 10,000 children registered at these sporting events, events, and 10 sports have been introduced: table tennis, athletics, judo, tennis, volleyball, gymnastics, fencing, basketball, handball and badminton; we have launched this program with the support and cooperation of sports associations and the student sports association. I must say that I participated in a number of events myself, the children were very happy to attend these events, and of course we thank, in addition to the organizers, the local gym teachers who brought the children, the school leaders and institutional leaders who participated in this programme. The program continues, we want to go to some 230 schools from autumn, to go through this sport recruitment program, and through this we aim to increase the supply base. I think it is not necessary to describe many of the values of sport in this circle and to refer to some historical examples, but a certain - perhaps one or two classics, let me quote - Plato, who attended the games of Ishmos in his youth, where he also won prizes as a wrestling champion, recommended to all young people in ancient Greece to play the pentathlon, so he tried to take part in running, jumping, throwing, and wrestling exercises, and through this he tried a kind of physical and mental health towards young people. The Roman poet Juvenalis said that it would be desirable to have a sound soul in his body, and this wording says a lot of things, because when we say that it is desirable, it means that it must be done for him, so it is not certain that this sentence alone, broken down by itself, is a sound soul, only if we do for him. I think we should all, as parents, as public people, as teachers, in cooperation with gym teachers, we should take this program further. I see from the experience so far that sport also includes international understanding, a common language that, when we speak, we are enriched with values, and the great common language and universal value of humankind is sport itself. I think that by making our children play sports and carrying this program forward, we can also use it to sway the sporty concept of life to our children, so that we can build the sporting nation, and the athletic nation is also a sporting nation, so it also takes the spirit of fair play. I would like to ask for your further support and help in order to help them in their environment, so that sports associations can be open to these events and welcome the children with a good heart, as that is our goal for all Hungarian children to play sports. Thank you very much, Congressman, for your question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-96	Thank you, Secretary of State Simicskó. I'll ask Congressman Mátyás Firtl if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-06-08-97	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. Indeed, I have to say for my part that this is not just my main goal in recruiting for sport, but, as when I referred to the fact that our children are the most important to us, we also need to grow up a healthy generation that is fostered through sport, formed in a community, and indeed, a healthy generation, because another big problem of our today's Hungarian society is that we need to put our children in a state of health that really responds to the challenges of the future, whether it is in the field of sport, but whether they are actually able to grow up in a healthy environment in their own private lives. The other part is that these children, as we have seen about the posters, are not only about our own children, but also about their own parents and their families being encouraged to have a truly healthy nation in the coming time. Thank you very much for your reply once again, I accept. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Why is the state only helping the Quaestor-harmed? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-06-08-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Baumag Investment Association fell in October 2003, eliminating the HUF 43 billion of 12,000 small investors. The investors still haven't seen a penny of their money. Many blamed small investors for putting their money in the cooperative in hopes of a higher return. The Baumag victims wrote us a letter, and I quote: We don't feel guilty, because we acted in good faith when we believed that money placed in a legal organization under public supervision was safe. We had to be bitterly disappointed. Many have lost a life's savings, many families' existences have been undermined by the disappearance of money. Our sin was to take care of ourselves, our family, our old days. None of us believed that such an impertinent act could be carried out in Hungary after the change of regime, and the state washed its hands. Although the supervision also found an irregularity in the operation of Baumag, it did not eliminate its operation, the people continued to carry their savings unsuspectingly, since no one warned them that the cooperative was collecting funds illegally. If this had happened and the state control had worked well, Baumag could not have done so much damage to the small people working hard. [[16.10]] Our money's gone, and we don't know who took it, and where the amount of money is. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, LMP has been saying for months that there are systemic problems in the Hungarian financial system. The shortcomings in financial regulation, the weak performance of financial supervision and, not least, the political environment that is unable to eliminate or reduce corruption, together with the causes of the Baumag and subsequent broker scandals. László Windisch, Vice-President of the MNB, wrote in his response to questions from the brokerage committee set up by Fidesz that neither the PSZF nor the MNB are able to detect systemic financial crimes. If so, it is logical to conclude that the State is responsible for the loss of the injured because it has not fulfilled its basic task. Dear Secretary of State, My questions are: on what basis does the government distinguish the case of Quaestor from Buda-Cash, Baumag and others? What do you intend to do about the Baumag victims? How does the government intend to solve the systemic problems of financial regulation so that there will be no more brokerage scandal tomorrow? Finally, when do you intend to stop the illegal operation of the MNB and set up the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank? [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-06-08-100	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-06-08-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let's get to the Baumag case first, because it's not a story we're talking about right now. This cooperative has not been operational since October 2003, and the termination of this case, its legal proceedings and its criminal proceedings have continued. The case in question has already been the subject of final judicial decisions and orders. However, it is true that the liquidation of the cooperative continues to this day. It's kind of complicated and complicated. However, I do not think that there is any reality in asking for a story from more than ten years ago on the current government. I believe that the political direction at that time, the power, the socialist government, had time to give an appropriate answer to this question at the request of those injured in the Baumag Cooperatives. An appropriate response was also made: a year later, financial supervision was essentially terminated. I believe that the then government, then political power, has a significant responsibility in this matter. Indeed, the broker scandal that broke out this year was treated differently. A significant part of this was regulated by the law itself, as the current law on OBA, Beva, largely solved the difficulties. The situation was different in the Quaestor case, because it was a special case where, in interpreting the literal text of the law, it would not have been understood, there would have been no compensation for more than 30,000 people. The majority of Parliament thought we couldn't afford that. That is why this bill was issued, which concerns the compensation fund for the victims of Quaestor. However, what he said in the title of the interpellation about why only the Quaestor victims are assisted by the State is not true in itself, since the question suggests that the State is providing financial assistance to these victims, although that is not the case. It has established a regulation, which is indeed a specific regulation, because the victims will not individually enforce the damage, but this fund will settle it for them, just like the other two laws, the OBA and the Beva laws. This compensation fund will act on its own to ensure that the damage is repaid in this fund. But it can't be said that the state will provide money to the Quaestor victims separately. Indeed, it created an opportunity, a legislative opportunity for them. As far as future legislation is concerned, here is the bill tabled before Parliament to move the development of the financial intermediary system, on which Parliament is going to vote tomorrow. This will largely resolve the need for more stringent controls in the future and, indeed, for this to happen again in Hungary. I ask your faction, if you agree with this, then the legislative amendment on the Hungarian National Bank, which consists of nine points and two-thirds of the law, your faction will also support it so that it can enter into force. As far as the establishment of the MNB's supervisory board is concerned, I believe that this will be the responsibility of the Parliament in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-08-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck if she will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-06-08-103	I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, small investors are not interested in the political game you play with the socialists. Twelve years have passed since then, the problem should have been solved. Speaking of letters, I'm going to quote from the letter from the Hungaria Bonds that it's not one, it's a lot of problems. This is what they wrote: "Trust - that's all that's left for us Hungaria Bonders, after we've heard our voices, we'll only find deaf ears. Trust - it is the trust of few, and although we are less than the 32,000 Quaestor-damaged, we are not in our rights. We're not billionaires. What matters to us is the amount we have invested in the bond. We are common people, all the wealth of our lives, the result of our work, all the savings we have here, for which we have worked hard, and which is the future of our children and grandchildren, our future pension, our hopeful homes, the foundation of our business. And now it all seems to be lost! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They are calling for the unconstitutional state that is currently in place to be lifted. Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-06-08-104	Thank you very much. So the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 41 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. How can different processes enrich the same person? Or HM EI Zrt. on special contracts. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]]
u2015-06-08-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Last November atlatszo.hu published a long article by HM EI Zrt. anomaly detected in connection with the renovation of the headquarters. According to this, nearly one billion forints have been spent on the renovation of Salgótarján Road Headquarters in the last four years, of which 769 million forints have been paid on the basis of contracts concluded with Baurama Kft. All this despite the fact that the lucky kft. had neither exevaluable construction experience nor military history nor economic activity to be taken into account. Former ProdeTex Kft. Before 2010, the main activity of the company running under the name of the company was the production of outerwear, as indicated in the register. However, for some mysterious reason, this company was asked for a quote for construction works in the autumn of 2010. The relationship developed so well that today Baurama Kft. its premises are also registered at the HM EI headquarters. Press staff from the study of the contracts concluded concluded concluded that built-in materials and equipment are noticeably expensive, sometimes exceeding the manufacturer's list prices. The differences between the quantities entered in the budget and the quantities actually incorporated have also been highlighted. This was particularly striking in the case of the side-covering of the building, because only a fraction of the cleared and paid cover was made. The interesting coincidence described in the article is that the construction company and HM EI Zrt. DSQ Contact Kft., which operates its quality management system. behind it is the same individual. In view of all this, it is hardly surprising that the latter is a fft. Started from zero in 2010. There is a specific picantria of the fact that, according to the press, on the basis of information received from the CEO, one of the technical inspectors was also a member of the jury evaluating the offers received. According to the Minister's reply to my written questions, the contracts were completely legal. It also pointed out that the renovation of the building and the operation of the quality management system, according to you, are two separate and unrelated processes. [[16.20]] However, oddly enough, the Minister did not find anything special about the fact that the two separate and unrelated processes ultimately enrich the same individual. Therefore, here at the Parliament's meeting, I ask Minister how different processes can enrich the same individual. It is well known that according to your new public procurement rules, all dogs are now legal. There was a time when you spoke as a leader in the fight against corruption. Don't you feel personally responsible for not investigating cases that raise suspicion of public funds? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-08-106	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2015-06-08-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I find it amusingly dissonant in itself when a socialist politician talks about squandering public money. [[Applause for the governing parties, noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Let me refresh your memory by reminding you that, under your administration, your politicians took the money out of the Ministry of Defence. I was forced to file a criminal report for over a hundred crimes. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] As part of this clean-up process, we have made the spending of public funds completely transparent. In fact, you, who recently told the press that you do not know the MSZP oligarch, because, I quote you, there is no such thing, so I say to you, as a first-cycle Member of Parliament, it is worth recalling that the law on public procurement, as well as other legislation on the subject, is based on the national transposition of a very strict EU law guaranteeing the principle of transparency, competition neutrality, the purity of competition, the public, equal opportunities, equal treatment, efficiency, integrity, good faith and responsible management. In English, we apply the requirements of the European Union in each of our procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as your specific question is concerned, both the Ministry of Defence and HM EI Zrt. it has worked in full compliance with the principles listed above over the last five years, it is working now and it will continue to work in the future. In fact, which is also significant from the national economy's point of view, HM EI Zrt. With regard to the effectiveness of its management: the company closes with positive results year after year, and it achieves significant success in the extremely difficult work of rebuilding the Hungarian military industry, which has been many times under water by your party and government. [[Noise and clarity on the opposition side.]] You base your claims, your interpellation on the opinion of the opposition journalists: On the other hand, I try to base my answer on the facts. As I have already confirmed in my written reply to you, both the contracts concerning the renovation of the headquarters and the operation of the quality management system were concluded in accordance with the laws and other regulators in force at the time of their conclusion. Of course, as you well know, I immediately ordered a rigorous internal investigation, which confirmed, after the rumors in the press. It is therefore completely untrue to your statement in your interpellation that you would have failed to investigate the unfounded rumors that have been published in the press. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-108	Thank you very much, Minister, and thank you for your patience. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter in a minute.
u2015-06-08-109	I cannot accept your answer, Minister. The only thing he's shown is that he's loyal to government policy, he can lie fluently. Minister, you have no problem with the fact that 18 of 23 out of 23 applications were awarded by the same group of interests that operate the quality management system. If you don't see this as Secretary of Defense, it's seriously worrying. If you see and even assist in these cases, you will also be a picture of the government's policy. And here I would like to remind you that, according to all international surveys, Hungary is now among the most corrupt countries. Let's see the internal scans. There was no internal investigation into the purchase of three Mi-8 helicopters. When the non-public letter was blown out by the wind from the Ministry, the investigation of this matter was unsuccessful. Then there's the sale of land on Salamandra Road. Although they didn't sign the contract, I don't think this deal has become an example of transparency. The point is, the Ministry of Defense cannot assist in these business interests.
u2015-06-08-110	Thank you very much. Congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to immediate questions, I would like to give the floor to the betterman, Mr Gergely Farkas, who is on the order of business, in a one-minute time frame.
u2015-06-08-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to draw your attention, in my statement of order, to a decision against house rules. Two hours ago, with a vote in favour of the government representatives, the President of Novak was expelled from the meeting, and this does not exist in the house rules. We consider that, in his nervousness, Speaker László Kövér could not successfully state the cited paragraph, which is perhaps the 49th paragraph. Paragraph 4 could be. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: The session is not to be criticized! You'll have to go to the Affairs Committee.]] It could be an option. (Dr. Répássy, Róbert: The leadership of the meeting cannot be criticized! The Court of First Instance should be consulted.) According to this, it is only possible to exclude a representative from a sitting day, and László Kövér said three times that he had said that he had said a meeting and that he had said a sitting instead of a day; I think there is a very big difference. As Members of Parliament, we know that the sitting is about today, and the sitting is about two weeks, and my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, would like to comment on a number of agenda items this busy week, and even today. So an anti-house decision has been taken by my fellow members of the government. I would like to initiate the immediate convening of the House Committee to clarify this misunderstanding, and the House Committee will be able to pronounce the decision against house rules. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-112	Thank you very much for the point of order. On the one hand, I call on the House Committee for immediate questions. On the other hand, I would like to read it out to Dr. László Kövér the House Rule 49. Mr Jobbik, at 1:50 p.m. from the meeting on 8 June 2015 was excluded by decision on the proposal made pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4. A representative excluded from the sitting shall not speak again on the sitting day. A representative excluded from the sitting shall not be entitled to a fee for the day of exclusion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask Mr Farkas whether he will continue his request to convene the House Committee.
u2015-06-08-113	I reserve it, Mr. Speaker, because László Kövér did not give a paragraph number. He voted that he did not say what paragraph he wanted to vote on, and he made the content of the paragraph wrong, so that an anti-obsolete proposal was voted in favour of my fellow members in favour of the Government. I therefore believe that this vote is invalid. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-114	Following immediate questions, this point will be clarified at a House Committee meeting. We'll get back to work. We'll move on to immediate questions. Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Government information: law enforcement is temporarily suspended due to posters, or ordered to use police personnel to protect government hate campaign. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Mr Tamás Harangozó if he accepts the person of the responding. [[16.30]]
u2015-06-08-115	I would like to ask Mr. President with great respect that Minister Zoltán Balog has been responsible for the internal affairs of the police since his head of police...
u2015-06-08-116	Congressman, don't ask the president of the meeting, because that's not my job to answer that. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] Do you have to answer my question: do you accept or refuse to accept the response? Yes or no?
u2015-06-08-117	Look, that's the question I want to ask today. Thank you very much, yes.
u2015-06-08-118	So you'll accept the identity of the responder.
u2015-06-08-119	Yeah.
u2015-06-08-120	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-121	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, By submitting the budget, it became clear to the whole country that what the government has been doing in recent months in refugee matters is nothing more than a public-funded hate campaign. You spend 1.3 billion forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money on this invaluable xenophobic campaign, which you are sure to do on a sure basis in Hungarian, so that everyone can understand that it serves to piss off Hungarian voters, and not even by chance for those arriving here. Meanwhile, you will spend 50 million forints on raising the Immigration Office's budget next year, making it clear that the government does not want to deal with the matter in substance. However, the real scandal of the last few days is that it has been revealed that the government has guarded the posters of the hate campaign in the framework of an operational police action, and that by masking the nature of the police, it monitors the manifestations of political expression covering the contents of posters. I'm holding a copy of the police report. [[He's showing it to me.]] That's what's going on in the press. According to this we were ordered to go out after dark by the Budapest, XIV. The Gundel Restaurant is located in the district of the district, and there is a national consultation on immigration and terrorism marked with a label, and we must keep an eye on it in such a way that our police identity remains hidden. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Minister, Is this really the biggest task of the Hungarian Police Special Branch? After 25 years, does the Ministry of the Interior have a department specializing in the operational monitoring of political expression? Who gave the order, Minister, to use police personnel to guard the government's hate campaign? The Prime Minister? The Home Secretary? Or is this also under the responsibility of Árpád Habony? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-08-122	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2015-06-08-123	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have already talked so much about dictatorship, you have forgotten what democracy is. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] In democracy, the laws are made by Parliament, and they are enforced by the police. That's what happened in this case. But to give you a sentence on the substance, although this was not what your question was about, I ask you not to base on the danger that lies in Hungary by the fact that this new era of migration has begun. You need to know the numbers, and I think they pose such dangers to the country that, on the other hand, we should act together rather than try to make something irrelevant, which is one of the most important developments in recent years. If someone violates the law, they must bear the consequences, regardless of party standing. The police shall initiate proceedings in the event of any infringement which has been brought to their attention. This has nothing to do with the free expression you're talking about. During their hearing, the perpetrators, with the exception of one person, have also accepted the commission of the offence, and they say that they are all members of the political organization of the Joint. With regard to the operational surveillance referred to above, I must tell you that there has been no operational surveillance in relation to posters breaches, only the aspects of the police regarding public service, the maintenance of public order and public security have justified their action against illegal acts in this way. In view of this, during the organisation of the public service, of course, the police did not ignore the fact that internet portals have reported calls for the destruction or removal of posters in recent days. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-124	Thank you, Minister. You'll have the floor in a minute, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. How you're not telling the truth, Minister, I've got it in my hand. [[He's presenting the report again.]] You're not suggesting that the Budapest Police Commissioner's Department of Major Crimes is on patrol at night in the public area, are you? ! You're kidding. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. This is particularly spicy of you, Minister, who, not long ago, with his fellow Members, had a cordon on Kossuth Square. He who is today Prime Minister was running around Kossuth Square with a cold cutter, saying that it is a political expression to oppose a police measure. It's particularly uncredited from your mouth. But, Minister, I'll tell you a thing or two that could be dealt with by the high-profile department. For example, with the Quaestor list case, or whether Szijjártó and Fazekas lords received commission for the money loaded, or where did the 60 billion go when the M4 motorway was being built? Maybe that's what the criminal division should be dealing with rather than guarding the posters. And for you personally, Minister, from their 1.3 billion HUF hate campaign, you know, three million rations of food could have been solved in the summer for the entire free meal of 50,000 children. Shame on you in this case. [[Long-lasting applause in the MSZP fraction.]]
u2015-06-08-126	Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Minister.
u2015-06-08-127	Thank you for your recognition on the part of the MSZP fraction in the form of a round of applause. I would tell you that if you read the written text, your interpretation of the law is still slightly one-sided, but when you respond spontaneously, absolutely. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] The court has stated several things in order... - you're gonna bring the barricade from 2006 and I'm gonna be ashamed of myself? ! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Who put the cordon against the law around the National Assembly? Who said that? Your government had the police set it up. [[Uproar, loud noise on the opposition side.]] We were trying to put an end to an illegal state. [[Applause from the pro-government side.]] Unfortunately, I couldn't be present anyway, but that's another question. Speaking of law interpretation, it's a shame you didn't bring the ventilator here, because this populism is even unworthy of you, who didn't spend half as much money on eating children as our government. And the third is that you filed six charges in the last year for billboarding. Yeah, when your poster gets damaged, is that a violation, when you and your comrades destroy your posters, to address you on the Internet, and that's an act to protect democracy? ! [[It's a lot of noise.]] Well, I can only congratulate you on this legal attitude and respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-128	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Reward of the Worker." The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2015-06-08-129	Mr President, The Minister has my respect, but I would like to save this question for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-130	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question with the title of the small people working in Kémény. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2015-06-08-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In Fidesz's communication lately, I stress that in his communication he often uses how important it is for you to protect the interests of the hardworking little people. Interestingly, the advocacy of small people working on the chimney, and in Hungarian the chimney sweeps, are no longer so important to you. After all, first the chimney sweeping service was sacrificed on the altar of the reduction, the sector was crushed, and then, in March, a draft law was introduced to settle the chimney sweeping service to solve its problems. But in this bill, there were such incomprehensible proposals, and I say, negative proposals that could be read out of them, that, for example, instead of the 800 hours of chimney sweeping education, you could get qualifications in a 250-hour crash course, or that public workers might be able to replace the work of skilled people who have so far seen chimney sweeping as a profession. [[16.40]] Or, let's say, a year instead of a year, a chimney inspection of the population will be carried out every two years, and even the government will appoint a central chimney sweeping body. We have already seen that when you centrally designated such ones at the tramp dolls or even casino concessions, what was the result of this. Here the general debate took place and this law was blocked in the committee procedure. Today, chimney sweeps protested, as workers are kept in uncertainty. I ask you - you sit behind our backs now, you say to their faces - when you intend to proceed with the trial of the law, when you wish to sit down and negotiate with the trade unions representing the workers, such as the National Trade Union of the Chimney Sweeps. When would you like to listen to the truly hardworking people about the law that concerns their work? I look forward to your substantive answer. Don't tell me. Tell the gentlemen here. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-06-08-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There were more inaccuracies in your speech. Indeed, we were tasked to look at the fact that a number of chimney sweeping companies have indeed developed operational problems, how to stabilise and secure chimney sweeping activities, and the service provided by the municipality, as a mandatory provider of tasks, with entrepreneurs and various companies. The draft law has indeed been put before the House, and it is stated in the draft law that the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection would carry out this activity itself. In order to carry out this activity, it is natural to say that, after this is an activity requiring absolute skills, skilled chimney sweepers, who are actually carrying out the activity, chimney sweepers, would be taken over by disaster protection later on. After the parliamentary debate and the negotiation with the owners of chimney sweeping companies and local governments showed that there are a number of uncertainties in this draft law, you also used to comment on this draft law, so the amendment and revision of the draft law is under way. When it comes to whether or not the Directorate-General for Disaster Protection will actually take over the task, or whether it will continue to be a municipal task, but of course the state must be given the necessary support to do so, then the bill will be negotiated. I think this can happen in the autumn period. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-08-134	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. A one-minute rejoinder is due, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-135	During the fall, Mr. Secretary? Do you know what happens in the fall? The heating season is starting. You know what happens if these people don't check the chimneys? You may be endangering the lives of millions of Hungarians at the moment, either in relation to carbon monoxide poisoning or in the absence of fire protection. Mr. Secretary, give me an answer to what I asked you. He said they sat down with the companies. When are you going to sit down with the employees? When will it be important for you to listen to workers, what should be changed in this matter? You know, it was said that chimney sweeps bring good luck because where the chimney sweeps go, there was usually no fire. Mr. Secretary, believe me, no matter how much you touch your button, the chimney sweeps won't bring you any luck, because you're already inexcusable; you're going to fail at all of this, in the way you are. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-136	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-06-08-137	Honourable Congressman, At the moment, local authorities are required to provide a chimney sweep service, i.e. chimney sweeping is provided under the legislation currently in force. In the event that this does not happen in one area, disaster management should indeed designate the provider that will do so. Once again, the whole point of the decision will be whether or not disaster management takes over the entire residential service, or whether, in its current form, we will resolve it with the support of the municipalities. The point is that we want to achieve and will ensure that this service is free of charge for the general public, and, of course, that all chimney sweepers who work in this sector today can continue to do their job in this sector, preferably by means that their employer cannot provide at the moment, will be provided in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-08-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect to the faction meeting of the MSZP, perhaps we should keep it in the hallway. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why do they not remedy the problem that, from September, children between the ages of 5 and 6 cannot be asked for a kindergarten exemption? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-06-08-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to the new rules that will enter into force from September, children from 3 years of age are required to go to kindergarten, but children from 3 years of age and 4 years of age may be exempt from the notary. According to the current Public Education Act, it is compulsory to go to kindergarten from the age of 5 years, but, under the law, the child may be released by the head of the kindergarten on request, if it is justified by the development of family conditions and abilities and the specific situation of the child. However, this special option will cease from September, i.e. there will be a situation where, between the ages of 3 and 5, and later in school education, it will be possible to be exempt or become a private student, except for this one year, simply putting a large group in kindergarten, where there will be no possibility of doing so. This is what the Minister said to our question of the Committee on Culture in March that it may indeed be a harsh obstacle to absolution. Of course, LMP also does not want children between the ages of 5 and 6 to be mass acquitted, just stressing that the option should be left open to this in a special situation, as is the case at present. To this end, we also tabled a legislative amendment in February, but the pro-government representatives did not allow it to be included in the series of articles. Several written questions have been submitted in the case, but the Secretary of State Bence Rétvári did not want to understand our questions on purpose, which is why we are now going to the Minister in person. If you - and I quote - think this restriction is too harsh, why do you not allow children between the ages of 5 and 6 to be excused? We think of this only on the basis of consideration, of course, in a special, specific situation and in the interest of the children. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-06-08-140	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2015-06-08-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I hope that in the case that you have mentioned only at administrative level, we agree, because there can be a consensus that is quite rare in Hungarian politics and public policy, that the obligation to have a kindergarten from the age of 3 is a positive measure. After all, it means that children who would not otherwise receive the plus in the family are primarily concerned with them, which is what is needed to go to school in a mature manner at the age of 6 or even at the age of 7, if this is what is needed, this is a very important measure. It's not just the three-time free meals these kids get, it's the civilizational, cultural plus, which are also verified by surveys. So let us get out of this situation first. Here, indeed, the cases you are talking about, if you see the family background giving more than, where appropriate, the compulsory kindergarten from the age of 3 to the age of 5, are indeed possible. This has the proper procedure, it is not yet a tested, only semi-tested system, because there have been exemptions. There is a serious notary and professional inquiry, which makes it possible. And then we'll get to the age of 5, what you're asking. Indeed, and the metaphor is good, we could almost compare this process to being a private student. We believe that if someone starts a kindergarten as part of the public education system a year earlier than he would go to school, then his chances are much better, and surveys again show that reading skills, integration into the community, so this year is at least as mandatory as school attendance is required in Hungary. [[16.50]] And the special cases you've been talking about have been removed from the law - so there might be a misunderstanding, and I've looked into it myself - these are the special cases that I'll be talking about in the next minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-142	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor for rejoinder to the congressman.
u2015-06-08-143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, So we claim, and we take it clearly from the text of the law, that here between the ages of 5 and 6, so it is not possible, under any circumstances, to become a private learner, a complicated procedure. But in this case, even you can't grant an exemption, Minister. We also receive letters showing that such a situation may arise in the country, such a situation may arise. I don't want to use this short time for examples right now, but there really are notifications like this. What can be done? There's definitely a violation of the law. What's the solution? What can a parent do if he is simply unable to resolve this situation, not able to have a child in kindergarten, and yet bound by the law? To whom can he turn, who can he ask for an exemption for his child? And if there's no such way, can't you tell me why they won't let this law give us any opportunity here? I look forward to your reply with respect.
u2015-06-08-144	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-06-08-145	If our goal is not only to acquire knowledge in public education, but also to learn the rules of community life and living together, under conditions that cannot be produced in the family, I would ask again, mutatis mutandis, whether there is any point in absolving children who will later go to school. I suppose the aim is not to have as many private students as possible in Hungary, but to study together and also to acquire the socialization skills that we need. But, as I mentioned, the misunderstanding may result from cases in which parents have generally requested exemption from five years of age, which have been looked at in the case law and highlighted among the permitted cases; that is, for example, residence abroad. They will automatically enter into force by notification and will be traceable in the future. So, the special cases you're talking about don't require authorisation procedures. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And that, by the way, by referring to the family background, we don't think it's necessary and good, because we'd like to start that public education process from the fifth year. [[The president's ringing again.]] for which the primary school also serves. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Tukacs: You should ring that bell, Mr. President.]]
u2015-06-08-146	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. We already know that Róbert Sallai is a rebuttal of Benedek's own claims. But what is the truth about the lands of his family and interests? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2015-06-08-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Róbert Benedek Sallai constantly claims that in the land lease system created by the government, only large owners with a political background can win. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] Recently, however, it was discovered that he himself was the beneficiary of the government's property policy. [[LMP and Jobbik's ranks. Sándor Fazekas: In the end, they didn't laugh!]] The interest of the congressman and his family has gained more than 237 hectares of state land in the programme for farmers. So Róbert Benedek Sallai, in the morning, cultivates the state land he uses, then, in the afternoon, in Parliament, he constantly attacks the land for the farmers. On the other hand, his family and his interests are a living example of the fact that, on the basis of fair tendering, local farmers have won. [[István Apáti: You didn't dare do it with him!]] According to the congressman, the government grants tens of thousands of hectares to people who are not in need of public land leases, and from rural development resources, thousands of billions of forints go to the hinterland of billionaires and politicians who are also not in need. According to this, Róbert Sallai Benedek's family does not need the land leases or the subsidies it receives, so it does not need the millions of HUF per year's support. Dear Minister, In this regard, I ask you, although the Member acknowledged that his wife is 50 hectares of Lower-Berettyó Melléki Kft. He has won 150 hectares of land for the farmers, but knowing his truth, we would like to see clearly how much land the politician's family and interests have won in the tenders. Alsó-Berettyó Melléki Kft. According to the Member, he mainly deals with the maintenance of indigenous Hungarian varieties in areas protected by nature protection. From this point of view, did the congressman want to acquire additional state-owned areas of protection, how much support did the family of Róbert Sallai get or will receive from Benedek, his interest in the land they have won? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-148	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-06-08-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true that Congressman Sallai has denied himself on several occasions in this case, since at first he claimed that his family had not won the right to rent any land in the state, and later that his wife might have won some 30 hectares, but he does not know that. In addition to his otherwise lifelike claim, he admitted to a journalistic question that his and his family's part-owned company had also won the state's land competitions. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You've made it all public.]] The government, within the framework of the programme for farmers, opens up the possibility for family farms to apply for land in the state and to farm. In total, the tenant of 237 hectares of public land is Róbert Sallai Benedek and his company, his interests and relatives. So one of the most successful, active participants is considered. And yet he is not satisfied - this is a very instructive thing - and the debate over the last few days can help us to understand why Róbert Benedek Sallai is not satisfied, because he wanted to win a total of 2325 hectares in state tenders. [[It's grumpy.]] You have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that he, his family members and interests have submitted a tender for 2325 hectares. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] While an agricultural subsidy of HUF 100 million has been applied since 2010, it is not difficult to calculate how much agricultural support this would be. The 2325 hectares, ladies and gentlemen, are 163 million forints of agricultural subsidies per year, area payments. This would have been a prestigious area. The programme for farmers does not allow the land to build an oligarch-grand estate, not even the members of the LMP Parliament. [[Constant intervention on the opposition side.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Now you can see why Róbert Sallai is dissatisfied with Benedek [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He didn't manage to become a big owner, he wants more. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-150	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2015-06-08-151	Minister, thank you for your reply, and with your permission, I would like to quote your own writing from the journal of Robert Sallai Benedek. András doesn't envy the fact that I'm in the spotlight, he laughs at me because they're messing with me on 200 acres. I'm explaining to him the agro-oligarchy, because he doesn't understand that. He's a little sad that we don't even have a Béla Kovács. Little party, little oligarch. This is what the LMP has - says Robert Benedek Sallai himself [[Continued intervention from opposition parties.]] - reminding him in his own diary and Parliamentary work that Róbert Benedek Sallai deals with himself, not with people. People who care about themselves are known for having problems with others. Farmers from work, Minister, wish you good luck in your work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Foreman Novak: Do you have two copies? István Apáti intervenes.]]
u2015-06-08-152	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-06-08-153	Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr President, You can see on the whole case that the comments of Róbert Benedek Sallai, his political statements, can also be summarized as an example of hypocrisy. [[István Szávay: Teach me more, master!]] It supports the tender system, the beneficiary of which wanted to win even more. If we added it up now, you could have raised a budget of HUF 1 billion in six years, my fellow Member, President Schiffer, for this proposal. But you can see, as I said, that family farms are winning, the tendering system guarantees that the land cannot be taken from farmers, even in Tourkee, even if someone is a Member of Parliament. Does that change politics? Does that make LMP's rural policy different? Does this change the LMP's policy on family farms? I believe that these questions are justified, because in this House, Honourable Parliament, we had to answer Mr. Robert Sallai Benedek's question at least twenty times. Well, here's the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. András Schiffer: But you didn't answer! There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[17.00]]
u2015-06-08-154	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask the representatives of the Jobbik to try to restrain themselves a little bit. I know it's not easy, but try it. Dear Parliament, László Cook... [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Demorate the schools in Baranya? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-06-08-155	Of course.
u2015-06-08-156	He'll take it. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2015-06-08-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The big publicization of small towns is underway. They didn't check with anyone, we read our fate in the bulletin, even though they promised to talk to us. I quoted this from the forum I attended last Thursday in Szisvár. They were the first to notice, because the Ministry did not indicate, despite its unconfirmed promise, that the institutions that will no longer be able to start the first grade will not be there for high school in these settlements, but will be a more specific vocational gymnasium. The school principal said I didn't know what a gymnasium was, but that's what it's gonna be like here in Szigetvár, that's for sure. The shuttles have also read it, and they have seen that they have to decide by Monday next week and they have to sign a contract with KLIK, but they do not yet know what the terms of the contract are and what kind of education will be in Siklós for the next three or maybe five years. Secretary of State, you're taking away from the shuttles, the kids in the shuttles, the opportunity to go to college, get a GED in your city. I have to tell you that Baranya County is the region of the country where parents can't afford to travel 60 to 80 kilometers a day. They can't afford to have a kid in college, if they promise him a high school graduation, and then they promise him a higher education institution, and I think we're all working to get our children ahead of where we are, and I think everyone's working with honor. But if you don't have the opportunity to study, if you don't have the opportunity to study in your city, in that 60-year-old high school or at the high school in Siklos, in which a lot of people are still studying, then I think you've made a wrong and wrong decision. Secretary of State, you can help the islanders and the shuttles and amend this regulation, allow them to continue to graduate in high school, both in the Siklós and in the islanders in their own town. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-158	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-08-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Not for the first time, for about five years now, you keep saying that this government wants to control the number of people who can go to high school and graduate there on purpose. But if we look at this year's most recent high school application numbers, we can see that this has not fallen in any way, although it seems to me in Parliament that there would be a great demand for it, but that is not what government measures do, but continue to do in high school applications, graduations, or that if you look at last year's and this year's higher education data, there is no shift in this type of application numbers that you are talking about. Because, of course, this government does not want people to get a diploma at all, and in fact, we are extending the possibility that, after someone, let's say, in a vocational school, later acquires a profession, it is obviously easier to obtain a diploma; if you want to learn a profession first, do this and then continue to train yourself, get a diploma, and even continue to study. This is a much more flexible and much more adapted system to the needs of young people. As far as the negotiations are concerned, we have also been hearing from you for five years as one of the main accusations that Fidesz-KDNP is not negotiating. In connection with the transformation of vocational education and training, I participated in a number of county-related forums with the State Secretarys of the Ministry of National Economy, several of us from the EMMI had such consultations, when we first met the county's entire high-school management and district leaders, and then discussed separately with the institutional leaders for whom the high school and the secondary school took place in one institution. I can account for this myself from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Hajdú-Bihar County, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, and I believe that from Heves County, where I personally participated, and I think that Baranya County was not different. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-160	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2015-06-08-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you not to be cynical. I wasn't cynical. We don't say that. It's not us who say it, it's the school principals who say it, or the parents whose children go to these high schools. Mr. Secretary, please come to Baranya and speak on the evening of the 15th in Szigetvár, or you will be welcome at any time. Look, this country isn't very big, it doesn't have a very extensive education system, but there are at least three ministries in this government that deal with education, but it might be four. I don't think you guys understand what's happening all the time. All we know is they're trying to create 40 centers, how many schools it's gonna be, we don't know. There is no written documentation as to how many teachers should be dismissed, whether teachers of public knowledge will have to be dismissed, whether there will be class divisions, and whether everyone will have to fight for the high school as well as Bishop's, or if they will be able to see in a bad decision that this was a bad decision and withdraw it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-08-162	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-08-163	Thank you very much. No educator has to fear that he or she will be out of work, or that there will be no need for his or her further work, of course. For all schools, in every county, I say, I myself attended these consultations in at least five counties, my colleague Tállai Secretary of State was also in Baranya County, so that these discussions were carried out in advance, precisely so that the workers and the heads of institutions there would not be struck by lightning from the outside. First, they heard a rather detailed presentation from both the EMMI and the NGM about how the transformation was done, and then from the mixed institutions, individually and separately, so that the other institutional leaders were not there, there were individual consultations. In the case of the Siklós high school, the city decided not to run the school at the same time as the institutions were in KLIK maintenance. It is a happy fact that, having examined the decision of the municipality four years ago, it is now thinking that the decision, which has a deadline of 15 June in the case of settlements over 3000 people, will change and take over its schools. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] while maintaining KLIK, he wants to operate his own institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue with the immediate questions, it's a public announcement. I would like to announce that, at the initiative of the Jobbik faction, I call today's extraordinary meeting of the House Committee to the Delegation Room at 18 o'clock. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:, Will there be a thousand public servants without payment? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Zoltán Kovács Secretary of State to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman Kepli says yes. Congressman Kepli has the floor.
u2015-06-08-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We've mentioned several times between the walls of this House what the government has done to the environmental sector in the last five years. To this day, however, it has not been possible for you to play with the bread of a thousand people, making the future of a thousand civil servants and government officials uncertain. This is also the case now, as the 2016 central budget currently lacks funding for the next year's salaries of about a thousand government officials recruited from the environmental authorities in government offices. When I said this in the general debate on the budget, I was promised that you would acknowledge this mistake and that you would remedy it in the form of an amendment, but that promise was repeated at the committee meeting, but no amendments have been made since then. At the moment, more than a thousand employees from the ten regional environmental supervisors under the Government Office expect which budget funds they will or will receive in 2016, and this uncertainty is not good for environmental protection, the environmental sector, for official work. We can see from the last few years that all our respect is, by the way, the professional work that these people are doing in this uncertain environment. [[17.10]] We have seen, in recent times, that, as a result of faulty government decisions, cases that pose a risk of serious pollution or reveal environmental pollution on the initiative of civilians or local forces come to light from week to month, even though it would be the responsibility of the environmental authority to have an appropriate apparatus and an adequate asset and financial system, so that it can work in a stable government environment. But so that the individual sectors are dragged back and forth year after year, reorganizing the public administration over and over again, so that the Hungarian environmental sector is not able to function properly. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State if there is sufficient funding for their salary for next year, and if so, where it is in the budget at the moment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary.
u2015-06-08-167	[[His mic's not working.]] Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, I would like to reject, first of all, it wasn't a spree in public administration, it was a planned transformation. This has been going on since 2010, and this was part of last December's government decision, which this House has brought to law this spring's session. According to this, since 1 April, environmental authorities have been covered by government agencies. [[It's a portable microphone.]] And in this period, various cases have actually been discovered, precisely because they are here. Until then, these cases did not take place for a long time. As regards your question, I would like to say, honourable Member, that the budgetary negotiations that will include the budget allocation of the central green authority and the green authority in the area of territorial administration are currently under way after its signature. They will be included in the 2015 budget and will be added to the 2016 budget. I ask you, if you accept this genre from me: did you receive your salary, your salary, your staff from the Green Authority in May? They got it. Did they get it in June in the last few days? They also got it. It is a large budget sector, which is worth some 150 billion. An annual item of 2-3 billion is not a problem. So I believe that your concern is unnecessary, Mr honourable Member, that the staff of the Green Authority will always receive their salary, and that the organisation will always receive the expenditure in rem that is necessary for its work. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give you the word for rejoinder, please insert your card because the microphone didn't work, or the card was inserted backwards. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2015-06-08-169	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, I ask you not to slip, because these cases that have come to light, not because of the work of the environmental authority, but through local people, local people, civil society organisations, and after the press dealt with them and caused so much public uproar, the government began to look for resources on how to partially eliminate these sources of pollution. And the other, as far as public service pay is concerned, these offices are highly skilled, and these professionals can work in a secure environment, and if you are truly reorganizing the environmental sector as part of a planned process lasting five years, then how is it that you are now starting to decide where to transfer your wages to next year's budget. I am talking about the 2016 budget. When this budget was planned, you were supposed to know that this population would belong to government agencies. Then I do not understand how you govern, if the appropriate financial collateral is not yet available for 2016, despite the fact that at this moment, thank God, you will be paid. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-06-08-171	Honourable Congressman, If you had ruled as a representative or a member of the government, you would know that legislation must be established first. As a result of the legislation, agreements must be established and subsequently passed through the budget. This process is currently taking place. I would also like to inform you that our colleagues at the Green Authority have received a 5 percentage point increase by coming to government offices. For all 2,100 people who are now entering government offices, 86 percent received a 5 percentage point salary increase. So, not only would they have been in a worse financial situation in this situation, but rather in a better financial situation. As a result, I do not see any problems, this is a false problem that you have raised with regard to the budget. The budget will be fine, everyone will receive their salary, the money needed to operate, and in this way the Green Authority will be able to operate continuously, as it has been before.
u2015-06-08-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "We can count on the police in the summer, can't we? It's an address. I assume that Congressman will accept the Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás appointed for his reply. [[Attila Móring József: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman Attila Móring.
u2015-06-08-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In a week's time, the summer holiday will begin for the students. With the spread of camps, daycare centers, the number of children wandering aimlessly, unsupervised, with so-called keys will decrease in the summer, but there will still be a significant number on the street. Because of summer vacations, burglars pose a serious risk to apartments, family houses, vacation homes. The relatively low risk entices those who come near with bad intentions. In addition, the pickpockets are stalking the homes of forgotten vacationers. Swimming during the summer season can cause many annoyance to holidaymakers, and unguarded items can bring a great deal of joy to thieves. Of course, all the risks listed can also be mitigated by appropriate precautions taken by citizens. But, in addition to the appropriate precautions, it is very important to increase the subjective and, of course, the objective sense of security of citizens. Experience has shown that the public's public safety mood is strongly influenced by acts threatening the individual and the individual's property. The quality and number of criminal offences have a fundamental influence on public safety. The more near-population crimes occur, the worse the well-being. Dear Secretary of State, Holidays are coming up, summer holidays are coming up. I respectfully ask what the police are doing in order to allow people to rest themselves, knowing that both you and your valuables are safe. I mean, will there be enough cops in the priority resort areas this summer? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-174	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-06-08-175	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The national police commissioner is the 46/2013. In his instructions, he regulated the duties of the National Police Headquarters, the Alert Police and the County Police Headquarters for the tourist season between 1 June and 31 August. In addition, county police headquarters will also develop a specific action plan and plans to prevent both criminal and accident hazards in tourist areas. In addition, there is, of course, a great deal of effort to provide information to visitors, whether foreign or domestic, in public service. During the tourist season, the Alert Police will also be involved, and the number of patrols appearing in the frequented areas will increase with the help of the alert officers. In the interest of subjective security, county police headquarters organise criminal prevention programs, student programs, involve the civil wardens, and organise summer camps to make the police's work more known, while at the same time being present in the area. Several police headquarters on Forma-1 ensure the safety and security of Formula-1, as well as the Hungarian police not only show up in Hungary but also abroad, since six policemen now serve on the Croatian coast year after year. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2015-06-08-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-06-08-177	Thank you very much. We all know that summer is the time for festivals, concerts, and these mass events attract criminals, drug dealers and other criminal elements. So it is extremely important that you are deterred, and, if necessary, the police should be there for quick intervention at the events. I am pleased to hear that cooperation with the Croatian police, like in recent years, will be achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-178	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the opportunity in a minute.
u2015-06-08-179	Thank you. The congressman must be particularly interested in Lake Balaton. The activities of the Balaton Public Security Coordination Committee will be carried out this year by the Fejér County Police Department, with police officers appearing here in the area of jurisdiction in the light of the criminal situation and ensuring both traffic police and migration surveillance, ensuring that people can rest in peace. I think that it is very important and obviously very important for the police to be in public areas, it is very important for them to be involved in law enforcement, but at the same time it is at least as important for the police to be involved in the necessary services, information and trust of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who will be accounted for?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask the leader of the group if he'll accept the person of the response.
u2015-06-08-181	Given that this is about the Prime Minister's competence, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-182	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. [[Bence Rétvári: He runs into a slap!]]
u2015-06-08-183	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would like to thank the Minister for coming in, because I was very afraid he would send in Secretary of State Bitay. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I sat here before!]] The one with the paperwork to deceive the public and lie. So thank you very much. Last week, for some reason, he avoided answering completely, and started talking about something completely different, completely avoiding the subject of what would become of it. I pulled up statistics like this to ask you a clearer question, because you didn't seem to understand my question last week. The Prime Minister says that agriculture is being shifted to the proportion of small estates, that you are going in a completely different direction in FM and that you are strengthening the major estates. Obviously, I wonder if we can say that in the vast majority of the tendering system there have been large estates that have won more than once with an interest of over 500 hectares - up to 1840 hectares - how the country of small producers will be realised. How is it that among these people, among these applicants there are many who are not in one or two cases - for example Agro-Bos Kft. In the case of 136 estates - did they get land without applying? In 192 cases, János Ágh and his family came to earth. But you know - because the unit of time is calculated by Karcagon in the years of your ministry - that the Huba family, Imre Csaba Huba, Imre Csabáné Huba, Margit Huba, even a Dr. Margit Huba, were very successful, and in 32 cases they came to the ground without having to apply, even though we are talking about a family of over 6,000 hectares. So you missed my question last week, and I thought if I put it in a different style, you might understand. My question is, if you keep giving land to big owners, and a large part of the funding goes there, how will the country of small owners, which the Prime Minister has spoken about, come along. If you'd give me an answer, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-184	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-06-08-185	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that this issue is back on the agenda. I regret that the Member was not here on an earlier question, where I think he would have received a clear answer, but I will do so now. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The time of small family farms certainly does not come with the circle of Róbert Benedek Sallai, his interests and relatives winning 2325 hectares of land, thus catching up with the oligarchs and large owners they attacked. This is not the way it will come, because the programme for farmers allows rural farming families to lease public land. The examples you have brought are typical slippages, the lectures of LMP and your self-righteous, unrealistic opinion, as it mixes one-off land use with the land leases awarded in the tender. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In the framework of the programme for farmers, the land has been won by 7500 families and farmers. While before 2010, the number of tenants using more than 500 hectares of public land was 53, their land was 85 thousand hectares, a tenant had an average of 1619 hectares of state land - you and your interests could not get in - and now 1482 new tenants instead of these 53 large owners manage 20 years of contracts. So I think it is important not to confuse one-year contracts with long-term leases, because exactly these lands have already been announced and handed over to farmers for leases. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-186	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Sallai.
u2015-06-08-187	Thank you for your answer. Only one thing I don't understand is, what's the statement against me now? The fact that I've made a hell of a lot of money on state land, or the fact that I tried to apply for 2300 and didn't win anything? Last week, one was claimed, the other this week. So just lie about something, because technically, it doesn't work out in any way. However, he is completely avoiding the history of the Hubai family, for example, because if there is such a need for land and applications, then why do you have to assign hundreds of estates? Why are they avoiding the application system if you think it's so good? Why, then, by going around the tender system, do you have to give a multitude of estates and hectares to buddies without getting anywhere? Why do holders of 6,000 hectares even have to provide an additional hundred hectares within the rental system or within the tendering system? If you're talking about the Huba family for one minute, I'll still be calm because I'd be waiting for you to explain the phenomenon. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-188	Thank you very much. The Minister is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-06-08-189	Thank you. It seems to me that the Member is so busy building his own estate, being greedy, that he does not listen to what I am saying, and the failure he has suffered in this proposal as a great estate builder and planner. Because I have made it clear that we have already launched and leased the commissioned land, so these do not need to be confused with the 20-year leases, and there are families where 8-10 adult family members actually apply. Combining these together is arbitrary, while you said last time you didn't even know exactly how much government land you're renting. This has also been said here, by the way, there are 237 hectares of public land rented by Róbert Sallai, our fellow Member Benedek and his interest. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Kulak!]] Forint 100 million is the area payment that you have received since 2010 after this area, and if you had won 2325 hectares in a program that supports family farms and does not support the large ones, you would have made one billion HUF in six years, just like those large owners who are constantly being attacked here in Parliament. I think this is the school example of hypocrisy, the real face of LMP, the real face of Robert Sallai Benedek, honourable Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-190	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This agenda is now closed. [[György Szilágyi: Where did Lawrence Butcher go? Dr. András Schiffer: Where is Lőrinc Mészáros?]] It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to abolish the state monopoly on tobacco trade T/4631. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. [[17 .30]] First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors in a five-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] The congressman's not here. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-06-08-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the abolition of the state monopoly on tobacco products in the field of reducing young people's smoking habits, a trampdog was carried out at the time, I'm sure you'll remember. In my narrower Patriot, Miskolc, by the way, 20 out of 80 such concessions - 20! "Two Fidesz MEPs and their relatives have taken me," they understand, twenty of whom are two Fidesz MPs and their relatives. So, they institutionalized corruption, presented a school example of corruption through it, created the basis for the prosperity of the black trade. Let us not talk about foiling, which has been the result of tragic events in connection with public security in recent years. Businesses have been destroyed, families' livelihoods have been made impossible, so let's not go any further. When the tobacco market was being redistributed, the dog that you called to life, the Fidesz-KDNP, with a thick yes, with a fat yes, and Jobbik, with a weak stay, helped the development of these processes, like the Sunday lockup, you know. Involvement in the lives of businesses, but also in the privacy of individuals, something similar was done in this regard. It was a disgrace that was brought to life in connection with the commercial state monopoly on tobacco products. This bill calls this termination to life from 1 January 16th, so that what you have done is practically eliminated. This bill is about raising young people to non-smoking life, protecting non-smoking people and the existence of the marketing of tobacco products, and forgetting what was born in connection with blackout and the abolition of concessions. One word, like a hundred, must act to support this, to eliminate what they have done to people. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-192	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The next two-minute comment is Mr György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-08-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to Nándor Gúr that we did not support Fidesz here either, and even the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has consistently and regularly spoken out against the outrageous practice of the tobacco dog since the abuse came to light. Monopolising the tobacco market was clearly designed to give Fidesz nearby vassals, mates, kissers some kind of concoction at any cost, even at the cost of destroying a whole commercial sector. The law has destroyed tens of thousands of families, has roughly increased the black market for tobacco products, has significantly reduced the state's revenue for tobacco products, but it has not mattered to Fidesz, the monopoly has been abused harshly and openly by the ruling parties, the only thing that was important to them was that friends should get the best they could and show everyone that Fidesz can do anything in this country through anyone. There can no longer be any doubt to anyone that, at the time of the introduction of the regulation, Fidesz was not serious about the objectives set out as justification for a single moment, they were just empty speeches with which they sought to conceal their insidious and unfair intentions for profit. The tobacco law, the tobacco dog, clearly meant institutionalized corruption. Jobbik's position on this issue is clear, we have the same opinion as that of all Hungarians with good feelings in this case, that is to say, that traffikmutty should be eliminated, those responsible must be accounted for. It is also clear, my fellow Members, especially Nándor Gúr, that the liquidation of the people responsible in Trafikmuty and the accountability of those responsible can only be the case in a country governed by the Jobbik government, since this corrupt, totally corrupt system, which has characterized Hungary over the last 25 years, and thanks to which the Trafikmutyi could also be created, was the case in XX. The Fidesz and the MSZP built it together and protected it together. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-194	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, LMP, in two minutes.
u2015-06-08-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With regard to the murder in Kaposvár, we said that we should not be messing with details, but simply the whole shameful market robbery law, which created a monopoly on tobacco trading, should be withdrawn. The horse's foot hangs out, there was no mention of protecting the health of children, as if that had been the aim, they would not have allowed the sale of ice cream or other similar products in these shops. It is about the adoption of a law that clearly serves the interests of a business interest. If anyone has any doubts about this, then turn to the contemporary news, from the laptop of the owner and CEO of Continental, a working text of the bill came into the House of Representatives. From this point on, it is quite clear that one of the important stages of the market robbery process, where Fidesz wants to appoint the so-called new national bourgeoisie with the power word Fidesz, was the traffic law. And nothing is expensive to you. After the murder in Kaposvár, they had the nerve to bring out the death penalty and to incite it in another way, instead of looking at themselves, they would have apologized to the Hungarian people and withdrawn this shameful law. There's no shame in foiling in itself. Foiling is the kind of filth that makes clear the low intentions. Obviously, if the aim had been to protect children's health, they would not have allowed the sale of products that specifically attract children or parents with children in the hope of an extra profit. If you had public health goals, you wouldn't have pulled resources out of health care in the last year. They have only one purpose to recapitalize their friends, recapitalize the new fidesz oligarchs, that's what this traffic law was all about, which has been morally irreparably unsuccessful in recent months. There's only one thing you can do with it, you have to take it back. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-196	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker is Mr László Varju, independent.
u2015-06-08-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that we could continue to blame and draw attention to what the representatives of the parties, the representatives of the factions, are doing for a long time, because it is quite clear that the law you have failed is nothing more than to take the results of the previous 20-year 30-year-old work of those thousands of people and to pass them on to those who belong to your own moonyard and economic interests. The Fidesz lairs created in this way, which support and support a significant part of your political activities, contribute to making it clear to you that this corrupt system created by Fidesz, the tramp dog, must be withdrawn, this law must be abolished if you want to do good for yourself. Just because I have been in a written relationship with two of your ministers in the past period, and one of these relations was about a very simple question: "Dear Minister of the Interior! Please report what has happened over the last few years since this system was introduced, how many crimes have been committed. It is quite clear that it is extremely large, since 878 cases have been prosecuted for crimes committed in a national tobacco store. This is your responsibility, among other things, for the regulation that you have made. The other part is related to Mr Lazarus, who must take responsibility - for his past, too - in that this first murder could happen, because he is the one who supervises this whole system and keeps it under his wing, rather than otherwise repealing this law that is clearly to be abolished. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-198	Thank you, Congressman Varju. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz. [[17.40]]
u2015-06-08-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to abolish the state monopoly on tobacco trade as of 1 January 2016 and to virtually restore the original agenda for tobacco distribution. It is clear that this initiative has a political purpose. [[Zoltán Pride: Like what you're doing! It is!]] I think it would be a shame to deny that. It should be noted that the regulation that was introduced earlier, which primarily aimed to keep children as far away from tobacco trade as possible and to reduce smoking levels, served this purpose. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: None!]] If we look at the results so far, we can see that the reports recorded by the checks clearly show that there were fewer and fewer businesses after the introduction where they were still serving underage. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He was on M1 yesterday!]] and due to the spirit of the law, there were shops which lost the right of distributor that was won in a tender. For the purpose of the law is to completely crowd out and eliminate the access of minors to tobacco products. So I think that the period since the introduction has shown that underage people are unable to access tobacco products [[Zoltán Grimlock: If they don't want to! Then!]] And this is extremely important. In view of the statistical data, we can also see that, on the one hand, since the introduction of the Non-Smoker Protection Act, which is also linked to the name of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction - I note that in the past, socialist governments ran three times to regulate the possibility of smoking - well, since its introduction, the number of smokers has decreased by one third, and the possibility of limited access in the tobacco industry has also been reduced, not to such a significant extent, but by nearly 10 percent. So I think the law has had its effect. I don't think it's sensible to put an end to this, so Fidesz obviously doesn't support this series of articles. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-08-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, Mr. Schiffer, since you left your red light on, turn it off. Thank you very much. On behalf of the authors, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP.
u2015-06-08-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Erik Bánki, The thing is, this weekend, the public service psychic did a show where he tried it with rehearsals, and three out of four of them served underage in Trafies. Since their legislation was introduced and tens of thousands of families were run over by violent reorganization of the market, the smoking of minors has not been reduced, but increased, my honourable fellow Member! [[Márius Révész: Where do you get this?]] Tax revenues are down. You know what else has grown? Black commerce, smuggling and the crime involved, my honourable fellow Member. And speaking of crime, there have been 878 violent crime robberies since you set up this system, and you've been handing out to criminals the unfortunate employees locked up in a few square feet of garbage that work there for nothing. That's a shame, fellow Member. Yes, the aim of the proposal was not to remove the foils, not to copy with this system, but to delete it as it is. Since then we have heard that the government's next great idea is now to install these holes with bulletproof windows, otherwise it is likely to give billions of HUF more revenue to some buddy. No way, fellow Members, one thing can be done fairly with this law: to withdraw it as it is. To this day, one question has not been answered. It's no coincidence that none of the government's representatives are here now. Indeed, after the tragic incident in Kaposvár, the government officially announced that it would deal with the issue at a government meeting. Where's that steering wheel seat? It's been at least a month or more. Since then, you've been quiet, sneaking around, not talking about it. What happened at that government meeting, what decision did they make? None! That's why we brought him into Parliament. If the government refuses to protect its citizens, then at least the Parliament and the Fidesz majority within it, especially the representatives of Kaposvár, should take the lead and vote in favour of this proposal. We're asking for your support.
u2015-06-08-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has proposed that the Parliament decide to reduce the price of basic food by CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. T/4394. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sixth time, we would be discussing this bill, which, I think, can always be justified by a new situation. The government is not very willing to take action, although it is taking small steps, this was the reverse VAT before last year, last year the 5% VAT rate for certain products that are not actually in real trade, and for the first time, although we have not yet accepted it, we can see that in the case of pigmeat, the VAT reduction for consumers has already emerged from the government's intentions. This is welcome, of course, but there is only one problem with it, which we have always indicated: that it is not fashionable to apply different VAT rates to substitute products in Europe, because this automatically distorts the market. For example, poultry meat is clearly a substitute for pork, and even in Hungary, it is a higher consumption, precisely because it has been cheaper so far. Now this ratio is reversed, which will mean serious conflicts for the poultry sector, and they have indicated this. Therefore, we propose that the product range that brings the highest import pressure to Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian food industry, should be included in the most favourable VAT rate, this is the 5% VAT. The cost impact of this is approximately HUF 110-120 billion and covers all foods that affect a larger proportion of consumers. If I compare the 120 billion with the 1 per cent reduction of the value of 1 million HUF per month, this VAT reduction proposal would save around 5-6 thousand HUF per month if the Parliament accepted it. This proposal has been agreed with professional organisations and two additional additions have come to the point that this should be done. Romania has now reduced its VAT rate from 24 per cent to 9 per cent of the total scope of food and the total agricultural product, including non-alcoholic beverages, and Slovakia has reduced its VAT rate from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, which is a bit similar to our VAT reduction proposal. This is going to be a serious problem, because the VAT fraud that has come to date is going to be all the more so, and the government's introduction of the EKAER is not an answer. It is not an answer because everyone here boasts, and anyone who is not familiar with this subject can even believe that they have now caught 8,000 litres of liquid milk - which is half a truck, half a tanker, I would like to indicate - which had no origin, and this will, for example, solve the dairy crisis, where there is the biggest VAT fraud pressure. I said in the budget debate that 8,000 litres of milk is made by 300 regular cows a day, so you can imagine the enormous volume of such an EKAER effect. But I can say the same about potatoes. They grabbed two trucks of potatoes, which means 40-50-60-70 trucks move a day. In fact, Hungarian potato growers have even told us what the Pest companies are going through, but we see that there is no substantial measure in this. So I would like to list once again the products that everyone understands what we are talking about, which would be affected by this reduction. It is not a good solution that Fidesz submitted from the opposition in 2008 to remove the VAT content of the entire food chain, because it includes lobster, caviar, all the exotic cheese, all the expensive food for which it is not advisable to reduce VAT, because those who want to buy a type of food do pay. I think that milk is necessarily poultry meat, after the substitute for pig products, the vegetables, fruit produced in Europe, freshwater fish, white bread, brown bread, water buns, water buns and hard cheeses. These would be included in the product scope that we are proposing. This is all the consumer basket that the rich don't buy anymore because it's cheaper, because, as I would say, everyone has one stomach, but it would really help poorer families. I think that this proposal would clearly solve many problems, partly the problems of the sector, partly the problems of the black market, which can now be a thousand billion-dollar scale a year, and no one denies that, there are concrete calculations for this. [[17.50]] I ask this House to support this proposal together. This product scope may be subject to certain corrections, but believe me, the basic proposal has been agreed with the profession. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-08-204	Thank you, Congressman Haughty. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. Several people came forward in writing. First, I give the floor to Gábor István Harangozó, who presents the position of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-08-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to pick up where my fellow Member Haughty left off. I would like to add a few other points to what he has said. The problem is not only that the rate of VAT on basic foods is the highest in Europe, but also that the VAT frauds in this regard are, as a result, reaching a global magnitude in our country. According to research, VAT fraud is worth a thousand billion a year, but only in the food industry - if you look at this circle - this represents a circle of 300 billion a year. That's the money they don't pay because of the cheated VAT. And, you know, the problem is that this is not just about VAT fraud, but about which VAT is not paid, and not about the employee, because what would be produced by an employee after whom a product is not legally placed on the market, and thus his VAT will not be paid, nor will they meet the food health conditions, since these products are sold black. Together with these, black-market products can be up to 50 percent cheaper or, at least, they leave a greater profit than those who do it legally and fairly. It also kills the food industry, not only keeps prices high. Then why is this happening? Doesn't the freedom fighter government dare to hit the VAT cheats? I don't think that's what this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm under the impression that this is a matter of interest. Fidesz doesn't do it because there's very good money out of VAT fraud, and businesses linked to VAT fraud have grown together with Fidesz, so he refuses to hit it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-206	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Daniel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2015-06-08-207	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik's previous position in 2010 has not changed a bit. With regard to the VAT content of basic foods and articles for raising children, we consider a reduction of 5% to the minimum level that is acceptable for Hungary. The proposal before us is good, because it points only in part, but in this direction, and its content - although several parties have already submitted similar ones - is unquestionably pointing towards making everyday life of Hungarian people really easier. It can also be seen that if we introduced a reduction to 5 per cent in the full range of basic foods and child-rearing articles, it could have a budgetary impact of some 200-220 billion. But let me give you one example: around 180 billion VAT is not paid annually, according to expert estimates, and as a result of an average VAT reduction of 5 per cent, we could expect an additional revenue of 30 to 40 billion in a budget year or two, thanks to the whitening of the economy. At the same time, we can see how much the simple people are burdened with this problem, and how much intervention is necessary, that, while the government is campaigning with zero inflation, we can see that in a year, consumer prices have fallen by 0.3 per cent, the price of food has increased by 0.4 per cent, as this is only part of the average, and we can also see that in the case of potatoes, fresh vegetables and fruit in particular, we are seeing an increase of 6.8 per cent within a year. Thus, while consumer prices appear to be stagnating, the consumer prices of the different types of basic food may increase dramatically, and this is the poorest people in the poorest line. Therefore, according to Jobbik's faction, there is a clear need for intervention and the need for action is immediate. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-06-08-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP supports the bill. The reduction of VAT on basic foods is not an accident among the main proposals of several opposition parties. It is no coincidence, for the spread of poverty in the workforce means that more and more people, millions, are not getting enough to eat every day. We say that it is a fundamental social policy choice, so that food for life is not taxed as much as any other consumption. By the way, in other countries, it has long been known that there is almost no tax on basic foods in Europe with a key as high as ours. In addition, reducing VAT would also help to reduce the grey economy that is booming on the agricultural product market. This has been said several times today. By the way, the food economy is the area where small domestic farmers and small entrepreneurs could be given more space in this case, reaching out to many people, because we have the potential. However, this would require a clear relationship, where there is no 27 percent advantage for those who cheat, compared to those who produce fairly. The long-term aim of the LMP is to ensure that not only basic foods have an adequate price, but that locally produced foods have a price that is available to everyone. In this, reducing VAT on basic foods is only the first step. In addition, LMP would combine VAT reduction with stricter environmental and animal welfare control in large-scale livestock farming and increase public health and food safety official activity. In order to ensure a certain price reduction in the tax reduction, consumer protection should be strengthened and enhanced market monitoring should be carried out. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-210	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I don't see any other speakers on the screen. I give the floor to the author, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said. You have two minutes.
u2015-06-08-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought the ruling party was reacting, but it doesn't seem to be fashionable; to be more precise, yes. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the context of the debate, it seems that this is not a proposal that would be confined to a narrow circle, and I thank you for your support. Of course, in such a debate, it can be supplemented by a different product range, which I have already indicated, and it is indeed also thought about reducing the VAT on matters relating to child rearing. However, it should also be seen there that not generally, but also to take the luxury out of it, because there is such a thing as food, which is not certain that it is preparing for the needs of average consumption. But of course, everything here has a heading, so the story is relatively simple. Obviously, it could be said that even the elimination of the 18 percent key could be considered, that commercial hospitality would also be a lower key, and that there would be a 5 percent possibility to think about, because it is obviously possible to adapt to the neighbours at some level, but I think that this would be the fastest and easiest, because the proposal that has been made is a general VAT reduction, probably would not work at a rate of 5 per cent, but at a rate of approximately 10 per cent. This would also be a negotiated matter in the context of a sensible dialogue, which would obviously mean that foods in the 18 per cent key - which would be 5 per cent in this proposal - would be a different tariff, since there is nothing else, I will say it again, just the commercial accommodation, which would help tourism. I would ask the non-governmental representatives who have not expressed an opinion to think this through. VAT fraud is a very, very serious problem in Hungary, and poverty is a very big problem. This proposal could not solve the two, or at least partially mitigate them. I'm asking you to support the motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[18.00]]
u2015-06-08-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I'll hand over the meeting to Vice President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-06-08-213	Good afternoon and welcome. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and infringement registration system in order to ensure that the procedure of the parliamentary committee can be carried out without delay. T/4638. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. I would like to inform you that the series of articles has been rejected by the Justice Committee. Dear Parliament, As a normal word applicant, Congressman András Schiffer, the leader of the LMP Group, has the word... [[For signal:]] or it would be if you wanted to live with it, but you don't want to live with it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I, as author. Gábor Staudt.]] It's perfectly fine what you're asking for, but it's not on my monitor. Therefore, since the Member is obviously better than the monitor, the Members are right, so I will give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt. [[There are many applauding in the Chamber.]] The president can't always believe the monitor, try to trust the Members. So Congressman Staudt was prepared in the meantime, and he is speaking on behalf of the authors, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We managed to defeat the machines, thank God. It is also the duty of a Member to pay attention naturally and, if there is a problem with the order, to address it. The proposal before us is trying to address a very important old problem. It is because Parliament's committees are not public authorities, and as such, if a person is summoned or summoned, and he did not leave, or may have gone, but falsely said, this was not subject to any penalty. In this way, it has also made the operation of popular representation frivolous, in many cases a laughing stock. We have tried to remedy this problem several times, and I will address it here in my introduction; what we are putting before this House is a proposal that would amend the law on infringements. Why the Violation Act? Because, in the case of the National Security Committee, not so long ago, in the previous cycle, the proposal has become accepted that those who do not appear before the National Security Committee or fail to make a declaration commit an infringement. We believe that this rule should not only be extended to the National Security Committee, but to all the committees of the Parliament, whether it be the standing committee or committee of inquiry, these rules should be applied in the same way, so the law on non-compliance should be amended. I would add that despite the fact that it is required to go to the National Security Committee's proceedings, Attila Mesterházy, quoted in the Simon-Wels case, could have done so without leaving without having any disadvantages. This shows that even this fact does not work, because the courts have thrown it back, and here in the application of the law there may be serious problems that Attila Mesterházy said that he does not know about it, and on that basis, because he said so, why the committee wanted to hear it, the court practically asks the rhetorical question. So we also have the current rules to do, but first of all, to extend them to the work of all committees. I would also like to remind you that János Volner subpoenaed Péter Szijjártó and György Matolcsy, invited him to the meeting of the Business Development Committee, and they didn't go either, even though we would very much like to see how well those persons knew about the Quaestor case. In the absence of sanctions, it is therefore not taken seriously at all, and even the application of infringement procedures to the National Security Committee is problematic. By the way, we made a similar proposal already in 2010. I must say, it would have been a real solution to the fact that there we would have regulated as a crime the non-representation at the meeting of the representative body. Of course, you voted against it then. Otherwise, if this crime had been committed by an official, we would have punished him with a sentence of up to three years, in other cases a sentence of up to two years would have been envisaged. I also have to say that Gábor Vona was the only party president who appeared to subpoena the National Security Committee. So we lead with the good example; even in cases where there is a sham campaign, Jobbik goes there and makes a statement. It adheres to the laws, whether they are written laws, such as, in this case, in the case of the appearance of the National Security Committee, the issue of non-compliance laws, or even political responsibility, so that an elected representative should appear before the elected bodies and make a statement in any case. I believe that this House, as long as criminal law and the Btk. We cannot place this fact in its rule system, so we should at least do so by amending the Violation Act. In such a way that not only, as I said, the National Security Committee should have a mandatory presence at its meeting if someone is summoned and not only the presence, but also the obligation to report and make a statement. By the way, what we have tabled is intended to extend the legislation currently in place for the National Security Committee to other committees, but, of course, if it works, we will not be excluded from stricter rules. In addition, as I have said, it is also necessary to make these rules live and not to do the fact that someone does not appear at a committee meeting of a representative body, the Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-215	Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the written representative. Congressman András Schiffer, please.
u2015-06-08-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the time, in the previous term, it was our fellow Member, Mr Lajos Mile, who, at his request, was able to achieve at least so much that the person failing to appear before the National Security Committee would face a sanction. During the last twenty years, various levels of officialism and politicians of different colours, such as György Matolcsy or Ferenc Gyurcsány, have made fun of the House. Non-emergence in matters of public importance before Parliament's committee of inquiry or any parliamentary committee, I think, is unacceptable. As long as the obligation to appear is not sanctioned, the level of infringement, I think, is acceptablely proportionate, the House of Representatives cannot explain its activities in the Fundamental Law. Moreover, from the time the National Security Committee is required, there is no constitutional reason to be required only to the National Security Committee. After all, it immediately arises why, for example, there is no obligation to appear before the Defence and Police Committee. And there's really no constitutional reason why all the other committees shouldn't be required. The obligation to appear as such is not closely related to the portfolio of the National Security Committee itself or the due diligence obligation under which the members are assigned. So I think it is a constitutionally worrying situation, anyway, if this obligation to appear applies solely to the National Security Committee. What I would like to say is that, of course, Parliament can perform its task of controlling the government in a smooth manner if Fidesz-KDNP, as opposed to its previous opposition, does not constantly undermine the investigative initiatives. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-217	Thank you very much. I see that Mr President Novak, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a statement. I'd be happy to inform you that I can't give you the floor today. [[Foreman Novak: That's why the House Committee is meeting.]] [[18.10]] I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the other factions or of the independent Members. [[For signal:]] Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I believe that the dignity of Parliament, which is so often mentioned here in plenary, must also be mentioned in this connection in the work of the committees. I believe that the committee will be able to carry out its monitoring tasks in a accessible and undisturbed manner if we ensure that it is possible to do so. At present, unfortunately, politicians and public figures can simply ignore the fact that a committee of Parliament invites them, reports them, and simply does not appear. I can also give you a very recent example: last week's meeting of the Cultural Committee, which is also responsible for sport, does not include the president of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, Zsolt Gömöri and Tamás Deutsch Vice-President [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] And many of the parasportsmen appeared and wanted to be accountable to both the president and Vice-President Tamás Deutsch, who gave the idea of final repayment, about the fact that while they have to work alongside their athletes and live in a very poor line, why they pay 3 million forints just like the president of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, whose salary is much higher than that of athletes. I think it was a cowardly and unsportsmanly act by Zsolt Gömöri, and the attitude of the Fidesz pro-government representatives confirmed him in this. Because Fidesz did not respond to this situation by speaking with one voice at a time and inviting Zsolt Gömöri and Tamás Deutsch once again, but simply taking this initiative off the agenda, and we were not able to speak to the parasportists present on this agenda. This example is also typical of the fact that in Hungary, unfortunately, in the last 25 years, a XX. A century - old mindset embodied in the lack of accountability and irresponsibleness [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Jobbik is so XXI. He wants a century, where responsibility also appears among political leaders. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-219	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-08-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I note that the Novak family has quite elegantly tricked the Speaker László Fat, I congratulate you on that. By the way, on the merits of the proposal, honourable Members, in normal circumstances, if we were still living in a real democratic rule of law, then perhaps we could think about adopting such a proposal. Although it should also be mentioned here that, in principle, committees of inquiry are political bodies, not others, so that failure to appear there must be more of a political consequence, and not of any other kind. On the other hand, it must be said that we have been sitting here together for the last four years with the factions that are now speaking in this debate about how the majority of Parliament has abused its rights over the last five years, how is it possible, for example, that one committee of inquiry has never examined the work of this government, only the previous governments. The most grotesque of this was the end of the investigation period in 2010 for Malév's bankruptcy in 2012. So, nonsense! Now, they're doing the same thing to the committees of inquiry, the standing committees, and the subcommittees. In the middle of the campaign, it was a good rule that Attila Mesterházy, then party president, could be summoned to the committee meeting in such a way that they would try to create consequences other than political ones. At the same time, when Viktor Orbán was summoned to the meeting of the same National Security Committee in connection with the agent charge against him, Viktor Orbán was able to escape the obligation very easily, because the parliamentary majority simply did not support his hearing. In other words, it is precisely the parliamentary majority at the moment, and I stress that we would at present hand hand in the hands of the parliamentary majority, which has abused its current power and power, a weapon that I think is wrong. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Perhaps first, it should be achieved that Members should appear, otherwise fulfilling their obligations at committee meetings. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-221	Dear Parliament, I will ask if any of the other factions, as well as any of the independent Members, wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Congressman Staudt, here you go.
u2015-06-08-222	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'm really sorry that no one on the pro-government side said anything to him. Tomorrow we will find out if you support this proposal. I believe that the mention of committees of inquiry is also justified because the existence of committees of inquiry and the fact that this has been sabotaged has been done by Fidesz on the MSZP proposal, and it is practically impossible to set up a committee of inquiry on any sensitive matter, since it bypasses and has incorporated rubber legislation into the law. It's a scandal in itself. It is also scandalous that the standing committees are not able to do their job properly. What I can't accept is that there is a policy that goes on in committees, that's just a political slogan, that's all it has to do with politics. The operation of the Committees of the Hungarian Parliament is more serious than that. People expect someone to show up there and tell the truth. Another thing is how people in attendance react to this, or what the consequences will be. But if someone should go and give their opinion on the matter, they should be expected from everyone. I would like to reiterate that only Gábor Vona appeared so far in the event that he was summoned, and by the way, that case was also a political sham, but nevertheless Jobbik's representative and Jobbik's president will go and explain their opinion. No one can be proud of this present situation. You may remember that at the beginning of the previous cycle Ferenc Gyurcsány wrote on Facebook that he did not wish to attend the hearing. I think it symbolizes accountability in an appropriate way that he could do this, and nothing has happened since then, and if this proposal will not be adopted, he will not even be able to... Believe me, people in 2018 will not forget this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-223	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Independent Members have proposed that the Parliament decide to take the necessary measures to recognise and announce the mandatory scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence H/3964. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-224	Thank you very much. Dear House, When we talk about such a serious issue, it is always worth recalling the experiences of those we are talking about. The hardest thing for a victim to stand up to and admit to what's happening to him is to keep a secret from my family and friends for 24 years. I was happy, active, and envied by many to the outside viewer. Very few knew only the reality of the horrors that I had to go through for 24 years. I read it from a 40-year-old woman's testimony. The Hungarian government signed the Istanbul Convention on the prevention and eradication of violence against women and domestic violence a year and a half ago. This convention, which has been completed in almost ten years within the Council of Europe, is based on a very broad consensus, ideologically free and extremely forward-looking. It also sets out a framework for how to deal with this issue and makes precise proposals on the institutional arrangements to make the lives of hundreds of thousands of women and abused children easier. This treaty is a breakthrough because it makes governments responsible for protecting abused women and children in their countries. This convention makes it impossible for all of us to understand the reality of violence against women and men. With this agreement, you can no longer delude the question of domestic violence. Preventing and eliminating violence against women and children is simply a civilization task for all of us. The Istanbul Convention is a protocol, a proposal that gives us the solution to make a meaningful move forward. [[18.20]] Today, there is neither an adequate institutional system nor adequate professional knowledge, training for the authorities to really help those in need, or to prevent these terrible tragedies. This is why the Istanbul Convention should be ratified in Hungary as soon as possible. A few days ago, the government presented a draft parliamentary resolution, the EMMI gave the EMMI a task itself on cases of domestic violence. I think that this is a butterfly-light proposal compared to the fact that we have a very broad international convention, which Hungary has already signed. The proposal presented, which will be discussed on Friday, contains only traces of the reference to the Istanbul Convention, lack of ambition, and radiates the lack of commitment, the lack of commitment from the government. I think that this proposal will not create the necessary framework to make a meaningful improvement in the area of violence against women and domestic violence as soon as possible in Hungary. The real solution is the Istanbul Convention. It is good that we all learn the name of this convention, its goals, because it is a real, great tool in our hands. No third-way solution, which conceals reality, can replace that power. That is why I propose to the Parliament once again, for the second time, to take on the agenda the issue of ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and to undertake the great task that this Parliament will take on this serious civilization task and it will solve it. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-225	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. First of all, Mr László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-08-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The preamble to the proposal before us sets out the objectives of why the proposal is necessary. The Jobbik, by the way, fully agrees with this. The aim is therefore to eliminate domestic violence, to effectively prevent violence against women, to be very important, but the proposal for a solution may still be incomplete. It is important not to make an unjustified distinction between violence and violence, to extend it to all members of the family, to be the candidate for a family position, family blessing, or to be an active member, or to be a male or female member of the family, and to extend it to them. For example, when it comes to domestic violence, abortion is undeserving, where, unfortunately, the most defenseless, the most vulnerable, innocuous persons, who would otherwise be protected by the law, are victims of domestic violence. Over the last century, 6 million Hungarian fetuses have not been able to be born, and we must always remember this number. However, violence against men must also be taken into account, and in domestic disputes, so-called marital games, men are also hurt a lot. That should be extended. This is also necessary because the preamble itself states and covers this. It says that the Parliament condemns all forms of violence, especially those in which physical and emotionally defenseless women and children are victims. We can safely say that Jobbik does not ask for more than the calmness and the extension of the interpretation in which to start and move towards. Now would be the time for the government to put aside the arrogance on this issue, and carefully considering what has been said, whether it be the more liberal parties, whether it be the left or the Jobbik, to extend it in the direction that Jobbik proposes, so that the protection of the fetus under the Fundamental Law in this direction, so that Jobbik's proposal in both directions, so that we do not distinguish between violence and violence. That's what we're suggesting. The Jobbik will, by the way, abstain from voting on the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-227	Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Of course, the LMP faction supports the proposal and we demand that the government take firm action against all forms of violence against women and domestic violence. Unfortunately, we have not seen much of the government's firmness when it comes to violence against women. At the persistent pressure of civilians and LMP, we managed to turn the violence of relationships into a stand-alone criminal act, but then the government, as a man who did well, leaned back, and since then we have not seen the determination we need to continue this struggle. Last year, there was hope when Hungary also signed the Istanbul Convention, but ratification, i.e. the introduction of the Convention into Hungarian law, has been delayed ever since. However, according to our information, the Working Party of the Ministry of Justice has already prepared ratification and submitted to the Government a report containing the necessary steps for its decision. The question is, why doesn't the government move forward on this path, who or who in the government thinks that you have actually done your job, and from now on they do not want to deal with this issue in substance. It is a popular government objection to how long it has been between the signing and ratification of the Convention for other countries as well. It was not so long ago that I interpelled this subject, then the Secretary of State herself replied how much longer Hungary would have had to live in this spirit. Yes, but these countries have signed this much earlier than Hungary, and I think it would be time for the government not to make excuses and cover, but to honestly assume that you are currently leading a country where a woman falls victim to domestic violence every week, and I would finally like to see the determination to stop this phenomenon. The stakes are huge. I'm asking you not to let violence continue to sacrifice weekly, do something about it. For women who have been abused, who have been raped, need real help and do not receive it at the moment. Please come to your senses.
u2015-06-08-229	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP!
u2015-06-08-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, We're gonna keep putting it back in until it's finally important to the ruling party. The ruling party thought that renaming domestic violence as sexual violence would solve all problems. I do not want to talk about women, but we are also talking about children, people with disabilities and elderly people. We talk about men and women as well. And when women, mothers, are raped, the child himself suffers most of the time. He may not be physically, but he's emotionally exposed to violence. A woman dies every week by assault, and a child every month. I do not know why Fidesz-KDNP is no longer affected by this number, or, for example, if we are talking about a week or two ago Pope stabbed a 25-year-old woman with a partner who was stabbed to death in broad daylight with 35 knives with a woman in a home with her child, he has long since been in a real estate with his partner. Or in Bishop's Lady, it has been found in recent weeks that her husband regularly raped her by drugging her every night. They've had a bad marriage. How many more such cases have to happen in Hungary? How many women have to die? How many children, how many disabled people and elderly people have to suffer violence every day just because the government doesn't want to see it? True, we will discuss a resolution proposal on Friday, but this is not a solution to anything. We are also talking about possible things, and there are no real forward-looking measures on the part of the government. We do not understand, they constantly refer to the fact that it took several years for the other countries to ratify this. We can talk about several years in Hungary, too, and it would be good for the government to take into account that this is very important to us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-231	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Petneházy, Fidesz!
u2015-06-08-232	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was saddened to speak, and I'll tell you why. I have many reasons, and today has given me enough ammunition for my sadness. The first is that when you hear such things, that you hear domestic violence, and if you're sane, then I think you're sad regardless of party standing, your heart is squeezed. The other thing that made me sad, but the thing is, if someone uses it for political purposes because of the delicateness of the matter and the hard-hearted nature of the matter, it's what we've heard. And the way you do that, and I'm not gonna say names on purpose, but with the utmost respect, I definitely say that I reject sentences that try to adjust the Fidesz-KDNP fraction as if insensitive people were sitting in their ranks. [[18.30]] It's like they're setting up the Fidesz fraction as if... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: All we ask for is your support!]] - I'm gonna talk about that, too, yelling at you. They'd make it look like they weren't interested in domestic violence. Yes, that's not true, and as a private individual and as a family man, I resent it. Not to mention the tone of your voice, and you do not realize how incredibly we influence public opinion, public language and public behaviour, and whether you like it or not, we contribute to that. And it is certainly not true that the government of Fidesz and the Fidesz faction do not deal with this, and the effective action against the already mentioned violence of relationships is one of them, whether we like it or not, but it was marked by Minister Zoltán Balog. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because of István Varga's scandal, for the record, she told me to give birth to women!]] We all know that a subcommittee is in the process of being set up, which is also about the issue of the Istanbul Convention, and it is also about the Istanbul Convention. So I guess [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] completely unnecessary to create a mood...
u2015-06-08-233	Congressman, please stop.
u2015-06-08-234	... in this case, because open doors are being banged by everyone who talks about this thing, because [[They're shutting off his mike.]] No one else's opinion, because I'll say it again: this problem is already...
u2015-06-08-235	Honourable Congressman, You had two minutes, and I had to take the floor with respect. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer, as I don't see any other applicants. Yes, please, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-08-236	Thank you very much. Well, there's a lot of good news here today, which means the Istanbul agreement is important to the ruling party, and a subcommittee will be set up. I look forward to finally working on it, because I have spent a lot of time among women who are victims of abuse, partly with professionals who really know how to do so. In fact, I worked at the Council of Europe earlier, so I was also involved in the creation of this convention. So it is excellent that if this Parliament finally puts this on the agenda in the form of a subcommittee, I can't wait for that to happen. I think, then, that the governing party will have no obstacle to voting in favour of this proposal tomorrow, because this is nothing but that this Parliament is committed to taking effective action against violence against women and domestic violence and giving the government a way to work on it. I spoke with Secretary of State Berke Barna not too long ago, I know where the prepared work is, and I know that this work is very early. So I look forward to the proposal being voted on tomorrow and to continue to consult opposition, professional organisations, civil society organisations within the subcommittee, and to provide a common, integrated and effective solution to Hungarian women and children, who, by the way, have 90 percent affected by violence in all forms, with serious protection. So I am very pleased to hear this comment from Mr Petnehazy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the independent.]]
u2015-06-08-237	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Discussion of the Commission's reports on the publication of the Administrative and Technical Implementation Agreement and in this context of the submission of a proposal for a proposal for an Administrative and Technical Implementation Agreement pursuant to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of the consequences of road safety traffic offences. The submission is T/4823. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a designated committee on a detailed debate is T/4823/4. was given to them. T/4823/3. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak.
u2015-06-08-238	No, thank you.
u2015-06-08-239	Secretary of State says no or not now. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Foreign Affairs Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. During the debate, I will inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment. No one came forward in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we also supported the adoption of the basic agreement, the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports the adoption of an implementing agreement containing the technical provisions necessary for the practical implementation of the forms of cooperation set out therein. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-241	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react now. Mr. Secretary of State will show and indicate that he is. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-08-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the Parliament for the statements of support made earlier in the debate and in the context of the comments that have just been made. I would ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-243	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on promoting the employment of students in school cooperatives and the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry, representatives of Bence Tuzson, Fidesz, a separate motion by T-4288. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4288/4. and T/4288/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4288/7. and the summary report is T/4288/8. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A maximum of 15 minutes is available for this. I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 4 June, the Rules of the House 46. T4288 discussed under §8 of the Act. The Commission presented a bill on promoting the employment of students in school cooperatives and the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work, and presented a report and a summary amendment with 24 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. On the one hand, the draft amending proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs and, on the other hand, the Legislative Committee's own proposal clarifying the commission's proposal is included in the summary amendment proposal. The Economic Committee's proposal takes into account that according to practice, according to the employment conditions in Hungary, the employment of people with disabilities is mainly carried out by companies producing jobs, and they have the opportunity to deal with these workers in their various production processes. Thus, it is essentially their job and their opportunity to employ workers with disabilities in mind of the principle of equivalence, regardless of whether they are employed or borrowed by their own staff. So the main goal is, and in this case, I think we all agree, regardless of the party position, that as many people with disabilities as possible get to work. Therefore, the amending proposal states that if the lender employs staff with disabilities, he can take over this obligation of payment and employment with a unilateral declaration from the borrower. In addition to correcting the entry into force, the legislative committee's own proposal contains definitions, creating consistency between the bill and the labour code. One of the objectives of the bill is to ensure that students in higher education who are in passive status have the same benefits as those in active status, so that the possibility of employment in student associations is the same. The other very important goal is to increase and protect the employment of people with disabilities in the area of temporary agency work. We ask your support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2015-06-08-245	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes.]] Congressman, you don't belong to the national representative... [[Péter Cseresnyés: This afternoon I signed the declaration that I joined.]] It's nice, it's nice, you have the floor. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-06-08-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! I think we can all acknowledge that this bill deals with a very important area. I do not want to go into details because the reasons given by the Legislative Committee earlier were why this regulation was necessary, but I would like to say some thoughts, with some data, of course. On average, between 180 and 200 thousand students in Hungary do some occasional work every year, a significant proportion of whom work in at least 130 thousand major school cooperatives. This option, in fact, this form of work gives students experience and opportunity to earn money. The proposed provision makes it clear that the rules on entitlement to social security benefits and the exemption from social contribution tax are linked to the existence of a student or student relationship, which includes the period during which the student or student will be suspended until the age of 25. This is one of the novums in this proposal. The other part deals with the employment of people and workers with disabilities, which deals with the fact that the employment relationship in Hungary shows the tendency of borrowers to require a low number of people with disabilities when ordering a labour force, and even in some cases explicitly reject the employment of such persons. In order to facilitate this, i.e. to facilitate their employment, the proposal will provide an facilitation, so that the borrower and the lender will be jointly and severally responsible for the part of the requirement of equal treatment concerning the selection of the workforce. The non-inclusion of an employee will also be the responsibility of the service user, so the degree of responsibility will be regulated after adoption of the proposal. In fact, if the lender employs a disabled worker, it can take over the payment and employment obligation after it by a unilateral declaration from the borrower. These two areas are the subject of this proposal, in which I would ask for your support, so that more and more young people with student or student rights can take up work after adoption, and people with disabilities can take up work more easily and have greater needs for their work. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-247	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you if you would like to speak on behalf of the government, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-248	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say that the Government is in favour of a separate motion and, of course, of the amendments. We ask Parliament to support this in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-249	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, the first of which is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-08-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The employment of students within the framework of a school cooperative is becoming increasingly and increasingly important in Hungary. It is an atypical form of employment, so it is something about how to obtain legal resources in a given period, taking into account specific skills and available opportunities. It is therefore obviously also important to regulate this. It is also important because about 200,000 young people in Hungary are affected by the possibility of working occasionally in a given year - quoted in quotes - and the number of those affected is around 120 to 140 thousand within the framework of the school cooperative, within the framework of the student and school cooperative framework, so it is significant. Obviously, of course, it would be good to use this not only in a statistical sense - or to try to take advantage of it, you know, as public workers and those who work abroad when they count it in Hungarian statistics - but the basic guide would be how and how to provide a helping hand to this age group, where appropriate, in connection with the work of students in the framework of a school cooperative. There has been a shortage here for many years, and we have mentioned many times here, among the walls of Parliament in the last five years, that this should be changed, that is also dictated by rationality; this is basically about the difference between young people who are active and those who are passive. In Hungarian, it affected those who, for example, experienced a period of deferment of a year, and during this period, they could not in practice be positively concerned with all forms of support, options, which were beneficial to those within an active framework. This draft law now seeks to resolve this difference, of course limited to an upper limit, with an age limit of less than 25 years, but I think that this is finally positive. Now I do not know what was the root cause in this regard: a multitude of serial, continuous, years of professional arguments have come to you, and this has affected you, or is caused by their loss of popularity, that they are increasingly trying to make a difference in all kinds of things that they may hope for some increase in this regard. Anyway, whatever it was, whether it was the reason or the loss of popularity that brought you here, I think it's a good solution to finally be able to touch it and to correct this deficiency. To do this, I think you will also enjoy our support. The other part of this bill is about the employment of people with disabilities, i.e. temporary employment. I think that everyone knows, or at least I hope, that about 500 to 600 thousand people with changed working skills live their lives in Hungary, at least those who consider themselves to be part of this circle; this makes the ratio of those who are in a long-term patient situation more than one million, but let's just stay with the people who have changed. There are more than 500,000 of them. In this sense, it is obviously important that a half-million-dollar set of rules be clean. I am still concerned about this, and I would like to share this with you, and I would also like to draw your attention to this. With regard to a temporary agency, obviously there is always the person involved, the subject to whom the story is about, and there is the person to lend the workforce and the borrower. The role of the lender and the borrower in this regard should be clarified. In general, borrowers - with a calm spirit - require relatively low numbers and proportions of people with changed working skills in terms of bringing employment to life, i.e. working, trying, in a sense, to pull themselves out of employment of people with changed characteristics. The sad example, just as I say it as a side note, is a sad example of this, which is in the administration of the state, let us say, within the Ministry, it would also be worth listing the number and proportion of people with disabilities, in line with employment within the Ministries. [[18.50]] And my fellow Members, especially the pro-government people, I think they'd be very impressed if they knew these numbers and ratios. Therefore, there would be work to be done in this respect in terms of public administration and ministerial surfaces. Extending equal opportunities and equal treatment, ensuring that I can't put it differently, just because it doesn't really work in practice. These people are already at a disadvantage, but in terms of temporary agencying, they seem to be in an even more disadvantaged position; this must be changed. So, I said that it was necessary to clarify the role of the lender and the borrower, to clarify his task, his responsibilities, to clarify who the actual employer really is. The same rules should apply to people with disabilities in relation to their employment, as well as to employment in the framework of normal employment. But once again, do not think about increasing or increasing the number of statistics, because if you think about it, you will be able to deceive yourself, but you will not be able to help solve the real problem. You know, you know, employers have to pay rehabilitation contributions. That is why I said that the role of the lender and the borrower should be clarified, because it is a significant item. If the employment rate of people with disabilities above 25 employees is below 5 percent, a significant amount of HUF 964 500 will have to be paid in a given year due to the employment of a major non-employed person. That is why we need to clarify this duality, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the draft law the word used by the borrower is published, it is clarified, and in the explanation part, the tax on the loan is clarified. It should be clarified which one, for example, applies the payment obligations of the rehabilitation contribution if the marginal conditions listed above are not met; above 25 persons, the employment rate is less than 5 per cent. One word as a hundred: together with these uncertainties, which I think need to be clarified and clarified - because, after years of not being able to do so within the framework of the student and school cooperative, bowing down to professional arguments, or, as I said, by trying to make every effort to reduce their popularity, they are taking some positive steps to balance passive and active relationships, and because they are not creating a worse position in terms of borrowing people with disabilities - the Hungarian Socialist Party will in all likelihood support the submission tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-251	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, LMP!
u2015-06-08-252	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, One part of the summary amendment proposal is only text-pointing, but the other part virtually empties the part of the original proposal concerning people with disabilities, so we cannot support it. It was clear at the time when the proposal was submitted that the two pro-government representatives had only tabled it in order not to have to vote in favour of the LMP proposal on the same subject. One day before the committee meeting, Kristóf Szatmáry and Lajos Kósa's proposal appeared on the Parliament's website, and it was quickly added to the agenda of the committee meeting when the Committee also discussed the proposal of the LMP to support passive half-year students. This was a rather transparent move, so we had to put an amendment into the proposal that could tell you that your proposal goes beyond ours, so it's not about the scrapping of our proposal. This plus, which was in your presentation, was intended to facilitate the hiring of the disabled, as the original proposal stated. It is currently rare to hire people with disabilities, because employers in many cases explicitly reject their employment. The current rules do not encourage them to do so, because when determining the payment obligation of the rehabilitation contribution, they do not count in the number of the borrower, so they are not even interested in lending workers with disabilities. Our original proposal would have stated that temporary agency workers should have included in the number of members of the borrowers, i.e. the actual employers, when examining the mandatory employment level of the disabled, so that the requirement of equal treatment could have been met. The proposed amendment, on the other hand, leaves a loophole that completely empties the original proposal, since it allows loans to be taken into account in the case of a loan tax declaration when assessing employment obligations. If this is the case, then the employer will be able to do so and find a temporary agency who will take this statement, while it is quite clear whether the temporary agency lends people with changed working skills depends not on his decision, but on whether there is a need to hire people with changed working skills. If this is not adopted in its original form, the requirement for equal treatment will certainly no longer apply. At the same time, it should be added that the regulation on temporary agency work also needs to be amended. The government has loosened the rules in this area in the code of exploitation that workers suffer from. In the Labour Code, the government, in favour of the temporary agency, adopted adverse provisions for the temporary agency worker: the right of temporary agency workers to severance payments became doubtful, and the notice period became less than that for ordinary workers, and 15 days instead of 30 days. In addition, a temporary worker is the easiest worker to fire, the borrower can get rid of him at any time, even if he simply gets sick. The termination of the loan may in itself be a reason for termination: if the borrower sends the employee back to the lender, that is enough reason to terminate the employment relationship. Not to mention, people can be employed in this form for five years. Therefore, the LMP will not support the amendment because it represents a step backwards from the original proposal in terms of the fulfilment of the requirements of equal treatment. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-253	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the final amendment proposal follow up. The submission is T/4884. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee for a detailed debate is T/4884/14 and its report on the detailed debate is T/4884/15. I'm sure they've come to know him. Report by the Committee on Enterprise Development as a committee on the subject of the debate on the detailed debate T/4884/13. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4884/17. and the summary report is T/4884/18. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 June, the House Rule 46. Under Section T/4884, T/4884 had been negotiated. The Commission presented a bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016 and presented 20 reports and a summary amendment with 5 sexes and 2 abstentions. [[19.00]] The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee includes, on the one hand, a single point amendment by the Committee on Budgets and, on the other hand, a 21-point amendment by the Legislative Committee. The proposal of the Committee on Budgets makes it clear to the film industry that indirect funding sources will be available in 2016 as well, and we hope that the amount recorded in the motion picture law may exceed the amount in the deposit account this year by up to HUF 2 billion. However, we want predictable and transparent relations not only in the film industry but also in the advertising market. The purpose of the Legislative Committee's amendment is to allow the advertiser or the media advertiser to grant a discount on the advertising intermediary's advertising fee by requiring the advertising intermediary to fully enforce it to the advertiser or advertising intermediary acting on behalf of the advertiser. At the same time, it is stated that the advertising intermediary cannot contribute to the creation of an advertising contract, the establishment of which was carried out by the seller of the media advertising platform owned by it. In addition, it was necessary to supplement the bill because the sale of advertising and advertising platforms is often not carried out by the advertiser, but by the sales house, which is acting on his behalf. Finally, I note that, thanks to the amending proposal, the rules relating to the reduction of public debt are laid down in the same law. The proposal also lays down definitions for the calculation of the sovereign debt indicator and the requirements for the planning of the central budget for determining the balance of the government sector in the Act on Hungary's economic stability. The Hungarian government is therefore still committed to a continuous reduction of public debt, which can already be seen as a major result in the process. I'm asking you to support this. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-08-255	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Legislative Committee several initiatives were submitted to the committee for discussion and acceptance, and the Hungarian Socialist Party took two such initiatives. The first initiative, before the Committee, raised two points to the amendment from the original proposal, the bill on the basis of the 2016 budget. One is the so-called encryption rule, which would encrypt data on preliminary calculations for two years, and the other is an amendment to the Stability and Savings Account. In the first, we believe that the principle of transparency is extremely important for fiscal rules and budgetary discipline, and it is therefore essential that the budget is planned and implemented in a verifiable and accountable manner. It is therefore unacceptable that data containing these calculations be encrypted for two years. The other one, which I have already mentioned in my interpellation, is an amendment that concerns whether income obtained legally or illegally abroad, if it is placed in a stability savings account for a year and removed after a year, the tax authority cannot examine the origin of this money by paying a rate of 10 per cent. As I said at the time in my interpellation, I confirmed and I would like to confirm the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party that this is totally unacceptable. The intention of the original legislation, which is now in force, was to bring these funds in for five years, and the Hungarian State could finance its own expenditure in the form of sovereign debt, so that internal indebtedness in the structure of the public debt would be more pronounced, which was the reason of the government. This reason has ceased, and I therefore believe that there can be no other reason than the money from public funds or government orders that has been delivered in recent years can now be legalised. The many tens of hundreds of billions of forints that came from either the gas offshore business or the 50 billion-dollar business of the settlement bonds, but I would say the Quaestor offshore company in Liechtenstein, where hundreds of billions of forints were lost, will now be the opportunity to launder these funds. On both of these provisions, we asked the Legislative Committee to adopt our amendments and to remove both the two-year encryption rule and this new rule in relation to the Stability Savings Account from the law. In the account, while I am at it, I also explained at the Legislative Committee that with the settlement obligation, foreign citizens who purchase such bonds will have the right and the opportunity to use this savings account, to place funds here, and to withdraw their money in a year's time. So they can actually make Hungary a money launderer's centre in Europe, buy the establishment opportunity, and then launder their money in Hungary. I think that this is a provision that is totally unacceptable. Our other initiative was an initiative to regulate the advertising activities we have just heard. Our proposal was to get the proposal from the government out of this law one at a time. In connection with the proposal, the Hungarian Advertising Association, the Association of Hungarian Lap Publishers and the Association of Hungarian Content Providers also protested in a statement. The market players are united in the view that, if this draft is adopted, it could have harmful economic consequences, as they are destroying small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses with a few people whose only means of living is to make a living. I have also explained in the Legislative Committee that the desire for a clearer legislative environment in this area by the government may be a worthy goal, but no background calculation and background study, as far as we know, do not support the tightening up that you are about to introduce. An investigation of the Hungarian Competition Authority was carried out in 2007-2008 in this market segment, but at that time the Hungarian Competition Authority stated that the market distorting effect of this scheme was minimal, so it does not require any legislative application. If you believe this to be the case, then make the necessary consultations and appropriate arrangements with these professional organisations, and it is acceptable for these small and medium-sized enterprises to make a proposal. Unfortunately, the above mentioned amendment and initiative has not been accepted by the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-06-08-257	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[András Tállai: At the end.]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that it will be at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, rapporteur for the designated Committee on Budgets. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2016 is now in front of us. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Budgets discussed about ten amendments tabled to the bill, of which T/4884/5. It also supported the number of proposals. The committee did not submit a separate amendment to the proposal, but at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 June the Commission's report on the conclusion of the detailed debate was completed and thus it was born T/4884/17. I would like to brief you on the content of which I would like to briefly inform you. Allow me first to briefly explain the purpose of the proposal. The T/4884 in front of us. The main task of the bill setting out the 2016 budget is to harmonise legislation in order to ensure consistency between the budget and tax laws and to ensure their smooth and legal implementation. Clearly, it is not a coincidence that these three legislative proposals will be discussed almost always at the same time in this House. [[19.10]] So back to the summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, let me highlight its key elements. A large part of the amendments contain merely codification or language-placed clarifications, so I would not mention them further. Point 1 aims to ensure that the rules relating to the reduction of public debt are laid down in a law, and therefore the proposal lays down definitions for the calculation of the sovereign debt indicator in the Act on the Stability of the Economic Stability of Hungary. The requirements for the planning of the central budget relating to the determination of the balance of the government sector and those provisions of the Public Finance Act are repealed. Point 5 aims to ensure that the more favourable rules for the Stability Savings Account apply only for a fixed period of time. The proposal also identifies the time interval between 1 July 2015 and 1 July 2016. Points 14 and 15 aim to clarify the rules on the operation of Eximbank. On the one hand, that section provides that the bank may, in connection with aid operations for international development cooperation, the establishment or accession to international development, in the future, establish or join a venture and private equity fund through capital investment. The provision also aims to regulate the use of the loan granted by Eximbank, since the Act governing the operation of that bank does not currently clearly provide that the loan granted by Eximbank may be used to repay and reduce the loan already existing by the client vis-à-vis another financial institution. Therefore, this amendment seeks to clarify and clarify this possibility. The 17th section contains a clarification, because by merging the Hungarian Agricultural Museum and the National Agricultural Library and Documentation Centre, the law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education contains the name of the consolidated budgetary body in error. This is therefore what the proposal seeks to correct. Point 18 clarifies [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that numerical references to the maximum amount of the deposit account should continue to be required in the Motion Picture Act, given that for the film industry...
u2015-06-08-259	Congressman, you have to stop, because my tolerance has already exceeded all tolerance. You had three minutes!
u2015-06-08-260	I apologize. Then I ask you to support the proposal.
u2015-06-08-261	You ended up very well. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there will be no minority opinion. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first of all to Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-262	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The debate on the summary amendment, unfortunately I must say, has disappointed us with regard to the acceptance of the amendments tabled and, in part, with regard to the pro-government content. Those amendments, they seem to bleed to death, with which we tried to improve this bill. The MSZP Group has made it clear in the general debate, as in the committee during the detailed debate, that it does not agree with the pro-government effort to increase secrecy instead of increasing transparency, it seems to be an effective attempt in this bill. We do not agree that background studies and calculations that form the basis of the budget can be encrypted, making important calculations that can confirm or call into question the basis of the budget uncontrollable. Our second substantive objection has already been mentioned in this debate today. We do not agree with the intention of the government to broaden and facilitate the possibilities of money laundering in Hungary. We have already debated the rule that allows individuals to escape from the tax administration, in essence, by adding precarious incomes to the Stability Savings Account in Hungary. This is the case even if your income was derived from a well-founded and legal source, but it is also true even if it is not true. In this bill, you have not tightened this rule, made it more difficult for money laundering to continue in Hungary, but made it particularly easier, and our amendment in the Commission's debates in this context, which would have prevented this facilitation, has been voted down. Finally, I would like to say briefly how your ambition to apply the strictest debt rule in Europe in Hungary has failed. Back in the day, when this rule was passed by law, it was considered of age-related importance. It is true that György Matolcsy, who at the time noted this bill as a minister and called his own proposal of epochal significance, has already fallen up, and now, at the head of the Hungarian National Bank, he will ensure that he will waste hundreds of billions of HUF of Hungarian public money teaching his own economic views through various foundations. Hungarian debt did not decrease, but increased, in your governance. In fact, I have to say that the ambitious objective of measuring the Hungarian debt to the overall performance of the economy and achieving a reduction within it, as the Maastricht criteria in the various indicators in Europe also require, has been a moderate success in their activities. Here the reduction can be shown, but not to the ambitious extent previously, by just a few percentage points. This, too, was simply taken away from people by the power of the law, after you saved some HUF 3000 billion of pension savings, saving some 3 million people with which you could partially cover your future pension. This was intended to be used to reduce debt, but this is virtually undetectable in the debt figures, because as much as you could reduce debt with this stolen money, essentially by weakening the forint, all your efforts in this regard have been reduced, and the debt, thank you very much, continues to gain weight. This reduction of a few percentage points, which is undeniable in terms of GDP rates and which I have considered modest in relation to ambitious targets, can be achieved only with all kinds of tricks, abusing the possibility that a decorated calendar day is only the interval when this indicator has to comply with the existing standards. With all kinds of financial tricks, they ensure that mitigation can be detected on this one day, regardless of whether debt shows a very high level again on the day before or after. By the way, it costs more and more money every year, and you now have to move hundreds of billions of forints to make this creative reduction, which, I say again, is still modest, at all. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, The discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, the Commission's detailed debate before it, proved one thing: namely that the party's behaviour and this bill are incorrigible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-08-263	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, LMP. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2015-06-08-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are several critical points in this bill that should be withdrawn if the government really wants to govern for the benefit of the people and if it really wants the country to do better. These critical points on the part of the LMP have been addressed in the general debate and have been discussed today. But unfortunately, we had to experience the same practice again, as at the end of last year, that the majority of the government saw who submitted it and not what. He would not even consider the proposals at all, but swept them off the table with a simple gesture. I would now like to highlight the four points that we consider to be the most important critical points: secrecy, encryption of data; advertising markets; state money laundering; and changes in debt formula instead of being abolished. With regard to the secrecy of budgetary data, it has already been said today that the government is practically absolving itself of the requirement to present transparency expectations and background calculations. It is laid down in law that the government must prepare an annual and medium-term financing plan and strategy for the central budget, while the recently tabled amendment would encrypt the relevant data for two years. We believe that this will, in effect, reduce the possibility of Parliament, because we cannot know these data in the debate on the budget, because the Parliament is public, and if the data are encrypted, then how can we discuss them. However, this includes the fact that the background calculations and planning data generated in the planning of the budget are not public for ten years. In fact, a draft budget can be properly judged if we can get to know the related background calculations and planning data. In relation to the advertising market, it has been said several times today that this is not right, and this should be withdrawn. With a single blow, this measure can destroy many, many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, unreasonably and without demonstrating any explanation or public interest, it will change a basic operating system on the market. I told you about the state money laundromat in my interpellation today. Money from not only tax evasion, but also serious crime is being laundered by the state. This is unacceptable. Finally, an amendment to the debt formula. We also consider this to be tragic because it has been inadequate to achieve the goal set, it was only PR, and it is also inadequate, it is not countercyclical, and it is also against the law. We ask that the majority of governments reconsider and withdraw these proposals and amendments. This bill is unacceptable in this form.
u2015-06-08-265	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Mrs Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-266	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When the first stage of the debate on the bill was the general debate, I have already mentioned it, and I am forced to mention the interesting connection that just the day before, our Prime Minister said that the government will no longer represent the policy of power, but the policy of attention, so that they will pay attention to the early, hardworking little man, knocking on the door, asking their opinion on what the situation is, what they think about, and paying attention to the expectations of citizens. Compared to this, they submit such a bill, which is exactly the opposite, specifically to demonstrate the policy of power to the public of the country. Several people have already said the very serious criticisms that I made in the general debate. I have to say that the summarised amendment proposal or report does not help this issue either, and, where appropriate, explicitly exacerbates the problems in this regard. Here's the question of encryption. Let me take a few points that have not yet been mentioned by other opposition representatives. We are talking here about two types of encryption: on the one hand, data on the financing and debt generation of the central subsystem, which could be encrypted for two years. It has previously been stated that these data are not public, point, and the Minister of National Economy may, in a sense, exempt from this encryption. This will not be the case now, but the need to know such data must be rejected for two years under the bill, as well as the need to know the data generated in the planning of the budget for ten years. I like to understand that now it's not secret, but it's not possible to know. It's different, isn't it, if we put it that way? Several points have been raised in the budget debate, not only in the discussion of the underlying law, which could be these figures. I told you then, and I'm telling you now: the little thing you have voted for is you who have formulated what we call the Fundamental Law, on public funds, which states that public money can only be formulated in a transparent way and in a reasonable detail, such as the budget, and transparency must be ensured in every sense. We happen to have László Domokos, President of the SAO. Let us assume that, in the context of budget planning, he will also encounter the serious obstacle that he will not be able to know the data generated by budget planning, as it is in the law. Then you'll go to the Minister of National Economy? After all, he must be able to prove to the House in the SAO report for the budget, more precisely in his opinion that certain lines of the budget, certain figures, are well founded. But then every time, for all data, do you have to ask the Minister of National Economy for an exemption for every underlying background calculation? And then what are you going to do with these? He's gonna get it in person, and he's gonna say, "Oh, yeah, let's believe that this budget is based on it?" How's that gonna work? I can't even think about it! The other: there are also lines in the budget, such as various payments. The term "various payments" is clarified in a sentence, which explains later in the explanatory statement by the respected government. Why is that necessary? In short, it's just because. If we want any further information in this regard, then will it all be classified? Are they all something that the Minister of National Economy might grant a special dispensation for? And when the accounts come and you have to report to the House on the various payments, you will claim that you will not because this has been encrypted for ten years? So until 31 May following a given year - sorry, we are not talking about a government budget closure, we are talking about the central budget - or until September, they will say that only a year of the ten years has ticked down nine months, so you have to wait for a long series of years to know what the closing account is actually based on? The other is the issue of the sale of assets. It has also come up with why the type of assets that the government intends to sell in the future is encrypted, about what amount of assets it intends to sell. He said this, Minister of State Banai, that it would have a serious - I don't know how he put it - market-distorting effect if he told the government his strategy of how much he wanted to get for each asset before the competition. I mean, with all due respect, it's in the national property law - I'm trying to quote it for accuracy, but where did I put it? - Well, the point of the story is that the sale of assets can always be only in proportion to the value of service compensation. This is usually done by having an assessment made at the moment. Does that mean it's gonna be encrypted, too? Can't we know that? 'Cause otherwise, how can you base a busy strategy on the sale of assets if not based on this? But according to the law of national property, it must be public information in the public interest, and it should not normally be encrypted. [[19.30]] Minister of State Banai said that we should calm down, that nothing will change, that everything will remain as it is, that anything we ask will be answered. Well, we haven't actually been able to reassure us, because then I respectfully ask you what this amendment is really about. What exactly are you trying to do? Let me mention one more point, this is the question of Eximbank. The summary report also shows that the situation is being made a little worse here too. In the Finance Act, the government gives Eximbank HUF 20 billion, and now the government grants the Eximbank with additional licenses in the Finance Act. So far, the state has been able to act on certain issues, which now Eximbank is given as an opportunity, to conclude contracts, to join international foundations, to participate in the establishment of international funds, and so on. This will leave you, but you can also participate in or join in the establishment of venture capital and private equity funds. What risk and private equity are we talking about? There are other foundations here for broker scandals that have caused little harm to young people who get up early and work hard. So now, to give a bank such a heavy responsibility in this regard and even to smear some HUF 20 billion with extra money, we believe that this is unacceptable. Once again, it is a situation in which the principle of transparency is indeed violated, which is otherwise enshrined in the Fundamental Law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-08-267	Congressman István Józsa, MSZP!
u2015-06-08-268	Thank you, Mr. President. It's weird that Fidesz has no time to argue. They do not seem to be affected by these few arguments, but they broke the law when the budget was submitted with the debt formula still in place. You brought the debt formula to calm the markets, and now, when word got out that they were changing it, there was a loss of confidence. Check the forint exchange rate. So, in our view, it is illegal to submit a budget. The other one they're trying to introduce is encryption. Come to your senses. The budget is the most concentrated government policy. This is where your intention is expressed, whether it's a direct intention or an ulterior motive. If you're gonna encrypt me, you're gonna get the feeling that you're being led by an ulterior motive, and that's gonna lead to a loss of trust. This loss of confidence in the markets costs very serious money, with a very high price. So I request, on behalf of all the responsible Hungarian citizens here in the Hungarian Parliament, that you do this, that you cheat, that you want to hide the data on which you can make a responsible budget. You know, in 1848 in the 12th point, the Hungarian government responsible for the Hungarian government, Pest - meant that it should be responsible for the Hungarian Parliament. How do you want to be responsible for the Hungarian Parliament today, if you want to hide it? So I would be very careful to protect you from this, it's an extremely irresponsible behavior. At the same time, it is also an irresponsible and market-distorting effect that is being done to auditors, thus excluding small ones completely from the market. In words, you are anti-multilateral, but at the same time in the audit market you are demanding such huge insurance premiums that only the large ones can stay on the market, above a certain scale. So please be at least loyal to your own voices and do not push me out with the small Hungarian, but professionally valuable auditors. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-269	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. In that case, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office. You have 10 minutes, Mr President, according to the agreed agenda. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, Since the adoption of the Law on the State Audit Office in 2011, the State Audit Office has checked a number of entities belonging to the general government's sub-schemes whose operation and management have not previously been fully controlled at all or not fully. To refer only to our reports published in recent months, we have carried out a thorough audit of utility companies, municipalities, state higher education institutions, and a report on the financial and asset management of several hospitals will soon be prepared. In addition to our findings, which, for example, have been quite devastating for higher education institutions, we have had to make dozens of signals to the competent public authorities, which have been justified in several cases by the fact that the budgetary bodies in question have accumulated significant debts. The obvious question arises only because, if budget planning cannot be calculated with deficit or commitment beyond budget expenditure appropriations, how is it possible, in the implementation of the budget, to accumulate massive debts again and again in each institution. Apart from the irregularity, can the lack of legislation itself be behind this? The balance of public finances as a whole and, to this end, the fiscal balance is a key national interest, which can only be achieved if the management of individual budgetary bodies is based on balance. To do so, however, the legal conditions for the management of the consequences and the organizational governance that can be claimed must also be established, as Parliament has previously voted in the Court of Auditors' law under the control of the consequences. If we look at the relevant legislation from this point of view, we conclude that although a number of strict provisions have been laid down at different levels of the source hierarchy in order to comply with the current legislation on budgetary management and the implementation of the budget, their accountability is not adequately regulated. There is a lack of adequate guarantees to implement the legal requirements. Among these laws, the Public Finance Act plays a particularly important role in ensuring the balance of the Hungarian budget, but unfortunately it does not do so with sufficient rigour. Article 9 of the Public Finance Act. For example, Article 5 of the Act provides for the right to exercise the powers of the budgetary body, but on the other hand there is a lack of strict enforcement of this right, such as the definition of the legal consequences of appropriate time limits and possible omissions, which would make it more clear that the legislator provided not only for rights but also for obligations. However, in the legislative committee's proposal to amend the text of Article 9 in summary, it is clarified that Article 9 should be amended accordingly. The text of Section 2 and thus makes it more clear that not only rights but also obligations for the governing bodies are defined by the legislator, but it is not enough in itself. In particular, it does not, at the same time, significantly soften one of the most important governing powers. This competence is in line with Article 9 of the Public Finance Act. According to point (e) of the first subparagraph, the audit of the legality, professionalism and efficiency of the activities of the budgetary body, for which the legislation currently in force specifies in more detail the content of this control obligation. On the other hand, the bill would repeal the points containing these details, which would further weaken the effectiveness of the control activities of the managing bodies, whether the municipality or the ministry, rather than include stricter, more detailed provisions in public finances, thereby imposing an obligation on the managing bodies to carry out a planned and regular audit of the budgetary bodies. This could lead to further imbalances for individual budgetary bodies, institutions and, ultimately, for the general government as a whole. Dear House, The strengthening or clarification of the relevant provision of the Public Finance Act would also be justified in my view, as this law also serves as a reference to a number of sectoral legislation. [[19.40]] It would therefore be particularly important to include in the Public Finance Act more stringent legal provisions both on the consistent and regular accountability of the directors of the budgetary bodies and of the heads of those bodies, and even on the imposition of laws or omissions, even on their personal liability. In this respect, during the administrative consultation of the bill, we also used a sign at the professional wallet, and we also made specific textual proposals for possible solutions and amendments. However, both after the legislative proposal was tabled and in the context of committee proceedings, I regretted that our proposals had not yet succeeded. Nor is it our proposal that the exlex status that has been regularly experienced during our audits, that the organisational and operational rules of the budgetary bodies and institutions have followed the legislation in force in the rarest case, often because of the failure of the managing body, sometimes because of the failure of the head of the institution, so this impossible condition should be set for the managing body to control and approve the text, especially if we know that the scheme is in fact regulating liability within the organisation. I propose that this deadline should be the date of entry into force of the relevant legislation. This has never been regulated in recent decades. Furthermore, we propose that the head of the budgetary body should have a personal responsibility, and that his management mandate be terminated by law even if the budget report of the budgetary body is not accepted by the governing body because it has not been implemented by the Public Finance Act 5. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Financial Regulation, the Commission has accumulated a large amount of debt and debt. In this context, I would like to remind you of the significant voltage point mentioned in my 2016 draft central budget law that some budgetary institutions are unable to meet the recognised claims of their suppliers on a permanent, recurrent basis and in breach of the rules. On the other hand, of course, the governing body should also be obliged to assess these accounts before the closing act is submitted and, if a report on loss management is adopted, undertake financial settlement within a specified period of time in the event of the existence of a restructuring plan for management. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Based on the experience of recent years, I can rightly say that a combination of strict and accountable legislative requirements and regular and consistent monitoring of compliance with them can only lead to more regular, efficient, efficient and economical use of public funds and public wealth. We would therefore regret that this House would change legislation in the opposite direction, thereby endangering the fulfilment of the requirement set out in the Fundamental Law to achieve a balance of public finances. I hope that my suggestions will convince you that my proposed amendments to the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2016 and to the present draft amendment would serve this constitutional goal in a more complete way and would serve Hungary's public financial interests in a more appropriate way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Fidesz and MSZP.]]
u2015-06-08-271	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-272	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In relation to the final vote on the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016, allow me to respond to what was said in the debate. As stated in the national expozee, the proposal for a final vote is aimed at creating all the legislative changes needed to implement Hungary's central budgetary management in 2016. A number of substantive and technical changes are being made to ensure the predictability of the legal system, the protection of families and the recovery of the economy, in line with the budgetary law that is now being adopted. Our amendments are technically sound and appropriate. Our aim, by supporting job creation, is to establish full employment, simplifying our tax system and reducing taxes, by embracing Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, creating conditions for greater order, but less rules, an economic and social system that allows Hungarians to grow in the long term. Dear House, During the debate on the bill, I would first like to respond to the criticisms and criticisms of the opposition, which are also reflected in the amendments that have been made. First of all, I would like to say that the draft law on the basis of which the central budget is founded is not a law on the budget, but a legal basis for the implementation of the budget. The underlying bill is therefore intended to ensure that the legal system is in line with the changes made by the central budget, i.e. to create the legal framework necessary to achieve the economic objectives set out in the budget. During the negotiation of the bill, the criticism was repeatedly expressed that, with the abolition of the debt formula, the government recognised the deficit in the debt rule adopted in 2011. On the other hand, it is very important to emphasise that the bill is not aimed at abolishing the debt rule, but, in addition to maintaining the current debt formula, it sets out an additional debt rule that had to be applied under the specific economic conditions. Therefore, only the conditions for the application of the debt rule will be amended in such a way as to bring them into line with economic rationality. The debt formula at the time of its creation was in line with the expectations of that time. However, in today's economic context, it is necessary to define it in a more circumstantial and applicable way in different economic situations. I would like to say here that the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is surprising, since they also acknowledge that Hungary's debt is falling, contrary to their governance. [[Interventions from the lines of the MSZP: How much has the government debt decreased?]] While debt has increased significantly under their governance both in nominal terms and in terms of GDP, they are now much more critical of the Fidesz regime and have higher expectations. At a time when they are not responsible for the farming in the country, the talent of accounting increases. Talking to you about responsibility in this matter, I think it's completely unnecessary. Dear Parliament, As we have already explained in the draft legislative exposé, the Hungarian economy is experiencing a period of economic growth and very low inflation, which has not yet been expected. The deficit resulting from the current debt rule would require a balance improvement which would unduly reduce the performance of the national economy and have a number of other negative consequences. The change is therefore in line with economic reality, the expectations of the developing Hungarian economy and our achievements so far. Contrary to what has been said in the debate, the new formula complies with the Fundamental Law and its methodology is simple, clear and transparent. Its professional merits are reflected in the support of the Government's fight against debt by both the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office. The second question is: I would like to draw your attention to the proposal for an amendment setting out the time-frame for regulation in the context of the opposition's reaction to the tax liability linked to the so-called Stability Savings Account. According to this, this benefit will be valid for one year, so it will apply only to accounts opened from 1 July 2015 until 1 July 2016. We also got into a debate with the MSZP today, because the same rule, when they were on the government, was adopted at the end of 2008, but now the government is being strongly criticised for not taking advantage of this option in terms of funding the country. [[19.50]] In response to opposition criticisms in relation to transparency, I would also like to emphasise that the government is not hiding, but is trying to protect the country's central financial interests. It is therefore necessary to clarify the publicity of data relating to the financing and debt management of the central sub-system of public finances. This amendment restricts, in a narrower sense, such as the balance of the treasury single account, the disclosure of information which would be detrimental to the financial interests of the State. However, it should be pointed out that public information on the development of public debt, its financing plan and its strategy continues to be ensured. In response to the allegations made in relation to the amendment of the Advertising Act, I consider it necessary to point out that opposition claims that the amendment would entail an impossibility for small and medium-sized enterprises are not justified. On the other hand, the new system essentially aims at making advertising activities more transparent, and also significantly reduces advertising expenditure for Hungarian businesses by abolishing the so-called bonus scheme used in the profession, and also provides for a fixed rate of charge guaranteeing the competitiveness and development of the sector. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the legislative proposal put to the final vote constitutes a close union with the 2016 central budget bill. The main objective of the proposal is to ensure consistency between the central budget and the laws, to ensure smooth implementation of the budget, such as support for economic growth, job creation and disciplined public finance management. I would like to thank you with respect for the activities of the parties involved in the parliamentary debate, the amendments tabled, the opinion of the State Audit Office, which will, of course, be analysed and evaluated separately. I ask the Parliament to accept the proposed amendment and the bill itself during tomorrow's day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-273	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The submission was made in T/4393. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4393/6. and T/4393/7. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4393/9. and the summary report is T/4393/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-08-274	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 5 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4393 amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the 55-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, of which the Committee did not support certain points, since these points were settled in its own amendment proposal. The amendments concern, inter alia, the part concerning the public liability of the National Bank of Hungary, given the need to ensure consistency with the Civil Code. The amendments to the Board of Auditors settle the current powers of the Chamber, some of which should be transferred to the public oversight authority. This is justified by the fact that the quality control procedures in the Ministry have clearly demonstrated that certain auditors are unable to meet the criteria required to carry out audits of public-interest firms. The abovementioned amendments were adopted by 20 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. The aim of the bill is to strengthen financial consumer protection and to bring about changes that are necessary as a result of the development of the law. To this end, the proposal includes amendments to a number of financial legislation and tightens the rules on the supervision of service providers. The Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 20 votes to four, with two abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-08-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, You can see that life is difficult without two thirds. The majority of the Fidesz governments on the Legislative Committee have made a pathetic attempt to extract the legislative places and paragraphs formulated as fundamental in the original bill, and to create the possibility of adopting this legislation as a half law, with the votes of the majority of Members. In our view, he failed to do so. Six initiatives have been submitted by the parties and by the pro-government majority of the Legislative Committee to the committee. Three of these initiatives were pro-government and three initiatives were presented by the Hungarian Socialist Party. The number one pro-government proposal rewrites the original bill on 29 pages. As I said, this is where the governing party attempted to circumvent the various fundamental rules, but in our view not only did this fail, but also opened up legislative spaces, paragraphs that were not affected by the original proposal. Therefore, at the Legislative Committee's meeting, I also indicated that there was a case of forbidden overextension. The Secretary of State has stated that this is not the case, although he has not been able to explain this in detail. However, this argument, with the acceptance of this initiative by the majority of governments, was not taken into account by the Committee. Among the pro-government initiatives, the second was the attempt to remove several paragraphs from the legislation, which you believe to be fundamental. Our position is that there will still be a legal place, such as 120, 121 and 124. §, which is fundamental, so if the bill is adopted in this form, it may result in a failure of public law. In fact, the pro-government initiative number three has shown that spelling in the economic wallet is not the strength of the legislators, since there are dozens of points in this initiative of spelling clarification. Allow me to turn to our own initiatives. Government communication is about the fact that this legislation provides an opportunity to strengthen the powers of the Hungarian National Bank, broadening its procedural powers, and, in fact, giving the authority of a detective, the Hungarian National Bank can perform its financial supervision more effectively and avoid scandals that have characterised the past period. Our position remains unchanged, which is that the current regulation was also suitable for the supervisory body of the Hungarian National Bank to notice, reveal and prevent tens of thousands of small investors from being in doubt, and thousands of small investors are currently concerned about whether or not they can access their investments; that the small depositors of Quaestor are being compensated, but while there are the victims of Buda-Cash, Hungária Zrt. are there. its victims, new scandals have emerged, and those victims are also concerned that their investments will not be repaid or received, so thousands of people's money is in danger. [[20.00]] That is exactly what our initiatives were about, because you want to strengthen the powers of the Hungarian National Bank by not having a supervisory body of the Hungarian National Bank. They have been unable to set up a supervisory board in the Hungarian National Bank for more than a year. They argue that the opposition could not agree, but that is not true. Last summer, at the multi-party meeting, Fidesz said that Fidesz will propose a legislative amendment to Parliament in this regard and will establish the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank in a consensus to finally become a supervisory body. But, ladies and gentlemen, our amendment proposal and our initiative were about the establishment of this supervisory board, the majority of the Legislative Committee, rejected this suggestion, did not vote in favour of our amendments. The other initiative was about what is an incredible provision of this law, according to which the Hungarian National Bank is actually exempted from the damage caused by administrative powers, it cannot be held liable for failure. According to the current rules, we have repeatedly pointed out that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has not performed its supervisory activities with sufficient efficiency, so it has a responsibility in terms of the damage caused by administrative powers, so it could be enforced even by the need of an individual investor. This is excluded by the current legislation. That is why we cannot support this proposal. Even though they publish any press release every day, whether the Ministry or Fidesz, that those who don't support it stand by the brokers who support it, stand by the people. We do not agree with this, because if you accept this, you will side with the brokers because you will exclude the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank, which is totally unacceptable, and I think that this proposal cannot be voted in this House. However, our amending proposal, which would have taken this provision out, you did not support it. In fact, our last initiative is what I referred to earlier, and it would have proposed rules of two-thirds with which constitutionality could have been guaranteed, and there would not have been an invalidity of public law. You have rejected this, so it still exists today, and it will remain in the vote that, in the case of at least three paragraphs, there may be public invalidity, which, in our view, is a fundamental law, and you have also rejected our proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-277	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[András Tállai: Not now.]] Yes, later, at the end of the debate, Mr Secretary of State will indicate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, the first of which is Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Member Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the Kulcsár case, due to the lack of attention and sluggishness of the socialists over the years, another series of financial frauds shook the public in 2015. Based on official investigations, it appears likely that both the Buda-Cash Broker House and the Quaestor have been suspected of abuse since the millennium, such as Buda-Cash, which was linked to Bajnai Gordon, successfully circumventing the control system that was deemed to be incomplete at the time in 2009, and may result in serious damage to small depositors and local governments by ten billion. Thanks to its rapid action, the government was able to intervene effectively. Parliament has adopted a law whereby the entire assets of the groups of companies, the managers, owners, supervisory board members and the auditors concerned can be blocked. The property placed under the lock shall be used to compensate the victims. At the same time, in order to avoid similar financial abuses in the future, it is necessary to tighten up regulation. The aim of the bill is to strengthen financial consumer protection, to strengthen regulation on supervision of service providers and to adopt certain rules of the European Union. The proposal raises the amount of compensation payable by BEVA to EUR 100 thousand, on the basis of which, in view of the Buda-Cash case, it also provides for an overall supervisory examination of investment firms every 3 years, as is the case with credit institutions, instead of 5 years. Then, in addition to a number of technical clarifications, the summarised amendment contains a proposal to ensure investor protection, which contributes to more frequent and easily verifiable information to customers. It must, of course, also be said that the compensation of tens of thousands of victims is going well in the case of broker scandals that have started in recent months, but it is important that we create a legal environment - and this is now an opportunity for the adoption of the bill - to ensure that no one has the opportunity in the future to dissuade customers from disappearing tens of billions of forints.
u2015-06-08-279	That's it? [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes. Thank you.]] Congressman István Józsa, MSZP, please.
u2015-06-08-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This was a strong taste of washing the previous comment, as the Hungarian National Bank had all the supervisory tools to conduct the investigations that allowed Quaestor to become a bank. So you could have conducted a target study, conducted a topic study, conducted a general examination of Quaestor. It could then carry out a follow-up check, carry out market surveillance checks, carry out on-the-spot checks and conduct a trial transaction. For example, if you notice that bonds are sold for an extra 160 billion instead of a $60 billion bond issue, which you have even written that there is no BEVA, there is no guarantee that if you bought some of these Quaestor bonds as part of a trial transaction, you would have noticed that something is very wrong here. Thus, the fact that no professional contributor, expert or independent auditor was involved in the inspections, who could only give a credible report on the development of Quaestor into a bank in order to protect his own professional integrity, is very revealing. So you are now hiding behind the tightening up, by the way, the tightening up is supported by the MSZP, because there really should be tools, but to adjust that these devices were not available, it is simply a false, misleading claim. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has done damage in the framework of insufficient supervision and primarily to customers. So you defend everything in this case, that the damage caused by the activity of the Hungarian National Bank will then become virtually impossible. In 2013, in the National Bank Act, the central bank's liability for damages caused by administrative powers was specified separately, but in a very restrictive and narrow manner. If the National Bank defaults, it shall be liable for the resulting damage only if it has been directly caused by that omission, otherwise such an initiative is permitted by the rules of the Civil Code on damage caused by administrative powers; therefore, it constitutes a particular restriction because the Civil Code interprets this more generally. [[20.10]] It also seems that you are doing everything you can to ensure that, in addition to the Quaestor Act, which you have passed in full compensation, it is not by chance that the Hungarian National Bank... - where hundreds of billions have gathered from the deterioration of the forint exchange rate plus, we can also see that the President of the National Bank has placed 200 billion in his own foundations, buying real estates for serious ten billion, spending money with two hands, but trying to prevent the National Bank itself from being held accountable for the damage caused by the irresponsible operation of the Hungarian National Bank. So you are now tightening the terms and conditions for bringing an action for damages against the National Bank of Hungary, not only against an illegal decision by a national bank, but also in the event of failure by the National Bank; in which case, the National Bank will be unsuccessful, but the action for damages can only be brought. Broker scandal victims are unable to meet this condition in the first place. So you put this law into practice in a false way, because you built it up so that the victims of broker scandals could in no way meet this requirement, because there was no administrative procedure, and its clients were not the victims, so that they could not bring an administrative action. So you've set a trap for the victims that you're about to lie about by tightening up, in fact excluding them from the possibility of suing the National Bank for damages caused by insufficient supervision. The National Bank will also minimise or minimise the loss of its lawsuit with the amendment that the Central Bank may at any time, pending the decision of the court, amend the part of its own decision concerning the deadline for performance. It is believed that some of the actions against the Hungarian National Bank as a supervisory authority could have been brought for this reason. In administrative proceedings, this is an unknown solution, because practically the legal inquiry should be made to a moving target, which the National Bank itself can change, that it will be given the opportunity by your law to change the deadline for this. This is a completely unknown solution in administrative proceedings, and it is completely unacceptable from a professional point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't want to use this law to protect the victims of broker scandals because it's actually written between the lines that you're doing exactly the opposite. I would like to draw your attention to this responsibility, so that you do not want to conceal by means of communication what is actually in this law and is unacceptable. The National Bank must not be released from this responsibility. That's why we can't support it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-08-281	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is now quite clear that the government, with this pick-up salad package, was trying to ensure that the Quaestor scandal did not burn on it, and that the aim was not to avoid similar broker scandals in the future. By the way, in the last few days, you have begun to communicate - feeling that the opposition is unlikely to support - that if we do not support this, we are on the broker's side, and you are the ones who are saving the small investor. While there are elements of the proposed legislation that the LMP could support, for example, the Financial Legislative Package aims to strengthen supervisory powers, to ensure proper control of investment firms, or to strengthen regulation on supervision of service providers and to strengthen financial consumer protection and transparency criteria in the issuance of securities. It would also be possible to support a proposal to grant the MNB a new driving licence to restore confidence in the financial markets, which will make it more effective to seek evidence of the infringement which is the subject of on-the-spot research. In other words, the LMP alone could support the strengthening of financial supervision, but we believe that the current management of the central bank cannot ensure the safe functioning of the financial system in the case of stronger powers, even though this would be very necessary, since some surveys show that 1.2 percent of GDP is lost due to inadequate regulation of the financial sector. The evidence of poor standards is also that offshore companies can get close to public funds, even though it is against the law. Over the last few weeks, we have been able to see precisely that the government is controlled only by averting responsibility and political smearing, and there is a political game going on. An ad hoc subcommittee was recently tabled at the Committee on Budgets to investigate the Buda-Cash and Quaestor scandals, but the government is not waiting for this subcommittee to, if it works well, then what will be the result of it, what proposals it will put on the table. If we were to assume that it might have turned out well, then we should have at least waited for the outcome of the operation of this subcommittee. The events of the past months have proved to everyone what the LMP has been saying for years: a complete review of the financial system and a real, in-depth transformation is needed. Financial regulation must be tightened, supervision made more effective and harmful relations between the political and financial worlds should be explored. This law is not suitable for this. Fidesz merely wants to solve the problems in order not to recognise its own responsibility in the situation that has arisen, by absolving a bad system. They wouldn't dare touch the whole system, because they would admit that the system had been bad so far. However, absolution is not a solution. It may be appropriate to correct some errors, but the basically flawed system will continue to create serious problems, and this will not be enough to avoid the need for a new law after each such error and no further patchwork. According to the LMP, a genuine and comprehensive examination of the financial system and supervision would first be needed, and thereafter, based on its experience, a complete reform of the financial system regime. However, the majority of governments are constantly making the investigation impossible, and at the regulatory level, they are only willing to masturbate like this law, which are guaranteed to produce no real results. This law is not enough to prevent another Quaestor scandal. Finally, I would also like to confirm that the Hungarian National Bank has not had a supervisory board for more than a year, and it would be high time to set up this supervisory board. Perhaps then we would not be able to find out what we have learned these days, that there the salary of the executive directors reaches 5 million, when many, many millions of people in Hungary today live below the minimum living standards, and perhaps then quietly... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Sorry, it's over. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-06-08-283	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-06-08-284	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to continue by saying that when you terminated the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions and integrated it into the Hungarian National Bank, there were examples from the world that such systems were operating in the world. That may be so, but in the world, there is no system in place where a party-appointed finance minister, the Minister of Economy, is put in charge of the National Bank, the President of the National Bank. Always trust is based on independence, professional recognition. If you really want to restore confidence in the supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank, you would like to send an urgent message to György Matolcsy to stop running this amok, to give up the management of the Central Bank, and to provide room for an independent professional who would like to say that he would notice that 150 billion HUF is being stolen in front of the Quaestor's fake bond issue. [[20.20]] You know, this is the 210 billion bond sales that Quaestor only had a license for 60 billion, and financial supervision within the National Bank didn't notice. So if you were really on the side of customers, you wouldn't let the Hungarian National Bank out of the responsibility as a financial supervision. Therefore, responsibility should either be restored within the National Bank or fully governed by public supervision acting as an independent authority under the Government. It only strengthens the mistrust that you do. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-285	Thank you very much. Congressman Tuzson Bence, Fidesz, please.
u2015-06-08-286	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have heard very interesting comments in this regard, but it is good to see a few questions clearly. The information needed for the effective implementation of a control system was available and available at the National Bank of Hungary, and besides, a supervisory system had been in place for decades. As a result, certain information could not meet each other, and accordingly the control system could not function well. This worked for a long time, and the result was that it was able to develop a situation that had developed in the past. There was a philosophical difference between us, between you and us in this respect, and the essence of this philosophical difference was that you, driven by a neoliberal approach, were primarily interested in, and stressed, relaxation. And as a consequence, in many areas of the financial system, in other areas, including in the banking sector, a different type of procedure was used, and the consequence was that in 2010 foreign currency loans had already become so high, which was otherwise unacceptable and unacceptable, because they behaved differently in other areas of the financial systems, in the banking sector. This was quite minimal eight years ago, but the guarantee system needed for the forint loan and linked to the forint loan was abolished. The situation on the other side of the financial system was similar, and you did not respond to previous broker scandals by strengthening the control system, but by loosening the system in the opposite direction. First, the mandatory procedure, the mandatory control procedure, was terminated, and later, for international pressure, a much more frequent five-year audit period was introduced. This system was basically wrong, because in the case of a surveillance operation, which was primarily based on the technique of requesting data from different brokerage companies, and based on the data requested, it looked at whether there was tension in the data provided, not on the basis of data generated there during on-the-spot checks, and it was not in possession of the data that, let's say, only the National Bank would have had. That is why it was gradually moving forward in the transformation of the financial system, right, first in the case of the banking sector, in relation to the accountability of banks, then in relation to the creation of fair banks and so on, and later in the case of brokerage companies, that the supervisory system was strengthened. After a year and a half of its operation, a stronger supervision, thus established, was able to detect abuses that could not otherwise have been discovered for decades. As a result, a much better-functioning, more efficient procedure was established. The point of the procedure is also that the methodology was different with the National Bank, since in this case the National Bank had already gone to the site, generated the data on the spot, compared it with its own records, and was able very quickly to detect these abuses. So this was the method, and the situation changed, and we have to go on this step. We have already made some legislative amendments, but there is also a need for further legislative amendments, as we can see from experience how much enhanced national banking powers can help in the process of control. The current legislation will start in two main directions. On the one hand, it has a trust-intendent direction and on the other side it has a supervisory strengthening direction. So it's working towards strengthening the surveillance system. For example, anyone will be entitled to obtain their own data, their own financial data at any time through the National Bank system. For example, the service provider will be obliged to send a balance monthly to the client as to how it stands and will be monitored by the National Bank on an annual basis, and he will also have the means to determine whether the financial resources, the underlying securities, are available and will be tightened up, the control will be concentrated, fines will be increased if the Parliament adopts this rule. You accept - and we hope you will accept - and we hope that you will come to a better understanding, and that the LMP congresswoman is not here, but I also say to her that if, basically - I'm sorry - [[Erzsébet Schmuck is in the notary seat.]] they agree on the purpose of the law and what is the law, the legislation, we are not creating this legislation for a moment, but we are creating it for a long time. In the long term, we will establish a stronger supervisory system. If you agree with this, you have basically no objection to this, then it is okay to go on this path, and if you do not see anything wrong with this legislation alone, then I would also ask you to support this legislation. Because your support will also be needed, because this legislation includes two-thirds, and unless it is voted by the opposition, it will be his responsibility that there will be no stronger, much better-functioning control system, and that we cannot rule out for the future that there will be no case such as that which has occurred in the past, no further financial abuses will occur. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-06-08-287	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'm going to ask the author now. As you indicated earlier, Mr Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-288	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Capital market regulation is an important issue. In particular, the events and scandals of the past months have given us a regrettable topicality to further develop and strengthen regulation. The proposed legislation has a very important consumer protection content, so we welcome the activity of representatives experienced in the general and detailed debate, since financial stability, confidence in the financial sector are also in the interests of the economy, development and society. The main line of the bill is to further modernise the regulation of the capital market and strengthen the supervision of financial institutions, but there are also proposals for the credit institutions sector. The reason for some new rules is the change of EU rules, which made it necessary to revise the existing Hungarian legislation. The amendments tabled concern a number of areas. However, the vast majority of the proposed amendments are technical and precise in nature, with a view to standardising the application of the law and ensuring a clear interpretation of the law. Some amendments add transitional provisions to the regulation in order to clarify the rules applicable to ongoing procedures. Among the amendments, the proposal by customers to complete the search option for the stock of their securities should be highlighted. I would like to remind you that the query option will be available on the MNB website to all customers using securities account management services, thus ensuring that they can check the current status of their securities account at monthly intervals. In the event of the adoption of amendments supported by the Government, the customer information rules of investment service providers will be further refined and the provisions of certain sectoral rules for authorised officials will also become more uniform. The proposal submitted to the bill relating to the amendment of the Company Taxation Act does not change the fact that the taxpayer may enforce the amount of the claim in respect of the compensation fund of the Quaestor injured until the adoption of the Fund's final report, in accordance with a specific order of order, as a reduction in the tax payable. [[20.30]] Dear Parliament, Among the amendments concerning the credit institution sector, it is also of particular importance from a customer protection point of view that the transfer of deposits and credit holdings takes place smoothly, while at the same time taking full account of the interests of the counterparties. To this end, where deposits are transferred, depositors should be notified of their intention to transfer at least 60 days before the specific transfer takes place and the sale should indicate that the customer is entitled to terminate the contract free of charge until the date of the transfer. In the case of the transfer of credit holdings, it has also been stated from a guarantee point of view that the unilateral modification of the terms of the contract in terms of interest, fees and costs cannot be more detrimental to the customer. The events of the past period have also shown the importance of closing the IT system of regulated institutions, preventing unauthorised access to systems and undetected modification. To this end, the amendments tabled would include amendments to certain sectoral laws to ensure that regulated institutions, credit institutions, investment firms and insurance undertakings, by administrative, physical and logical measures, meet the general information security and closure requirements, which should also be reviewed regularly, at appropriate intervals, by a suitable external expert. Dear Parliament, Overall, the new rules serve to ensure the safe functioning and supervision of the financial intermediary system, thereby increasing the protection of customers and investors. Thank you for your cooperation, for the amendments supported by the Government, and, of course, for voting in favour of the entire bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-289	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2012 XXX. on the Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums will follow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/4649. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Agriculture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4649/12. and T/4649/11. was given to them. Report by the Committee on National Inclusion in connection with the debate on the detailed debate T/4649/13. T/4649/14. and T/4649/15. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4649/17. and the summary report is T/4649/18. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, with a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-06-08-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 28 May 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums. T/4649. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the six-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, of which the amendment contained in points 1, 2 and 5 and, among the proposals supported by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, point 1, point 2/i and point 3 was supported by the rapporteur. The amendment aimed, inter alia, at allowing the opposition to delegate a representative to the Hungaricum Committee, in view of this, the Committee would be extended by one person in proportion to its number, as well as by another spokesperson. The above amendment was adopted by 25 votes in favour, 1 against and 8 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed its own intention to amend the three points of which were supported by 24 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. The Hungaricum Act was adopted in April 2012 after the four-party settlement and the implementation of its goals started in the three years since then: the definition of the Hungarian national values and Hungaricums began, their documentation, organisation, promotion, recognition and preservation with current and future generations. Based on the experience of the past three years, this proposal clarifies a number of interpretation issues and adds additions to solving the problems encountered in the application of the law to date. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 24 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-291	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, rapporteur for the designated Committee on Agriculture. Here. [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Minority opinion?]]
u2015-06-08-292	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The general debate on the amendment of the Hungaricum Act took place here in the House on 12 May, and the amendments tabled to the bill were discussed on 20 May in the framework of a detailed debate on the Committee on Agriculture. The committee examined the bill and concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. It also examined and concluded that the amendments to be submitted to the proposal were in line with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. During the vote on the amendments, the Committee did not support any amendments tabled to the proposal, but made amendments, which were proposed by T/4649/11. The Commission submitted a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate. A large part of the unsupported amendments contain proposals that would have changed the number of Members of Parliament and minority spokespersons delegated to the Hungaricum Committee. Despite the fact that these proposals could not be supported for various reasons, mainly due to formal reasons, in point 3 of the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate, we also sought to embrace this intention and maintain it for further discussion. Following the work of the Legislative Committee, it can be seen that our proposal for the composition of the Hungaricum Committee, although in a changed form, is included in the text to be put to the final vote in accordance with the original intention of the Committee on Agriculture. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2015-06-08-293	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, who will present the minority opinion.
u2015-06-08-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow Member, Mr Mengyi Roland, Member of the Committee, mentioned, we discussed this bill in the Legislative Committee and, by the way, in the Committee on Agriculture not so long ago. As Congressman Mengyi said, it would be too nice, but it was not quite the same in the committee debate or during the committee hearing. I say, as the Member mentioned, in 2012, the House adopted, let us say, the bill on Hungarian national values and Hungaricums in full agreement. At the same time, all parliamentary parties supported the noble legal goal of highlighting the Hungarian specialities, the Hungaricums, and we are raising this to a legal level, and then the committee of which there were about 15 representatives was formed. The current bill, let's say, would have been one of the innovations of this committee's intention to expand the number of members of the committee and to include representatives of some ministries in the committee. During the debate, we also said in the Legislative Committee, or each parliamentary opposition party submitted its own amendment proposal, which would have made sense, and these amendments wanted to aim at the fact that among the parliamentary parties, those with a political group could delegate one member to this particular Hungarikum Committee, since so far only two members have been delegated to this committee by the Hungarian Parliament, and they were both pro-government members. [[20.40]] In the course of the Commission's debate, we also stated, as a reason for our amendment, that opposition parties do not want to represent or apply party political reasons in this particular committee at all, that we would simply like each opposition party to participate, as I said, in the work that is going on in the Committee on Hungaricum, and that is why we had a proposal that parties with political groups in Parliament could delegate a representative to this committee. At the committee meeting, the representative of the government, let's say, threw it at our eyes or expressed as a criticism that in this case the operativity of this committee would be compromised. We didn't understand that, because if we were to extend a committee of 16 plus 2 or plus 4 it wouldn't endanger the operativity of this committee, because if we were to increase the number of members of a large panel by a few, we thought that it wouldn't be such a dangerous thing. Therefore, we have expressed our disapproval by voting on the Legislative Committee that the government does not intend to extend this committee, let us say, and let the opposition enter this committee in such a way that it can do the right work. That is why, as I said, we abstained from this meeting of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-295	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Hepp, rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here.
u2015-06-08-296	Štovani Predsjedavajući, Štovani zastupnici Maddarskog Parliament, srdačno Vas pozdravljam! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The fundamental law of Hungary in the part of the National Creed is made out by:. The ethnicities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the basis of this reference, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the Parliamentary Act 11. Paragraph 1 (1) (b) of the Act on National Values and the Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums of 2012 was defined as an item on the agenda for the interests and rights of nationalities. T/4649. Bill No. 1. The bill was discussed by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and submitted an amendment. During the preparation of the bill, he agreed with the Ministry of Submission. The discussion - I can say that I participated - took place very constructively, so almost all of our comments or requests, with the exception of one that we would have liked to have been included in this law. The Legislative Committee has also taken our proposals into account, and we have a heartache that the comment that the Hungarian nationalities should have their own securities company in Hungary has failed to achieve this. Hopefully, in future legislative processes, we may succeed. In view of the fact that national values are enriched by national values, we believe that one of the main tasks of current ethnicities in Hungary is to promote and capture our heritage, values and heritage belonging to the cultural, historical, gastronomic and other sectors of our predecessors. As a result of these facts, it would be possible to partially ensure the survival of nationalities and the interest of new generations, and to strengthen their national self-consciousness. Therefore, a further strengthening of the identity awareness of nationality can be achieved by indicating the nationality values recognised in the concept of national value in the local, county and regional unit depositories. We are proud and glad at the same time that the collection, documentation and recognition of our linguistic, intellectual, cultural, economic and built values representing the heritage of nationalities, the preservation, maintenance and protection of the documentation and records on which the protection of value is based, are permitted by this law in the collection of local, county and regional units of the National Bank. Thus, the preservation and transfer of the values of the present nationalities in Hungary, both in part and in a unique way, the enhancement and preservation of their reputation at national and international level, the publicisation of their origins, and their participation in the creation of national values, as well as the demonstration of their added value, reflect the recognition and appreciation of the Hungarian state for the communities of ethnicity currently present in Hungary. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary considers that the documentation system of national values cannot be complete and uniform without the involvement of national authorities. On the other hand, there is no question in terms of belonging, national unity and consciousness about the inclusion and documentation of nationality values in a national CSD. Taking into account future generations, we also consider it particularly important to indicate the values of nationality at the municipal, county and regional level of the national CSD. In the future, it can lead to a strengthening of nationality and national self-awareness, which will enable Hungary to preserve its characteristic, clearly proud multiculturalism and the current image of the exemplary coexistence and constructive symbiosis of nationalities. We ask Parliament to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-297	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-08-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As we have said in the general debate, we will be able to support this proposal, as we supported the original proposal even in 2012, because we agree with the objectives set out in this. We also strongly urged that a kind of depositor should be set up earlier, which signifies, collects and captures these Hungaricums and the path to the Hungaricums in a manner worthy of posterity. At the same time, we resent very much, at the time and now that the opposition is so excluded from this Hungaricum Committee, because we would have liked to have achieved it, and we have demanded this in amendments both in the debate of the original law and now that every opposition party with a faction can participate in this work with one representative. It is not that the opposition wants to use this for party political purposes, but believe me, Mr Secretary, there are many better organisations, we have many sympathizers, we go to a lot of events, we live our daily lives among the people ourselves, and there is much information that we could use in such a Commission's work, and I believe that we could contribute to the functioning of the Hungarikum Committee in a positive sense. These are the aspects that most wanted us to be able to share in this work in this way. I'm so sorry we couldn't do this. During the general debate, the final statement by the Secretary of State was still quite encouraging, and I thought that there was indeed some hope that we could convince and accept these arguments. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, they were less encouraging and confirmed. We really do not understand why this is necessary, why it should be adopted in this way, while such a law should be about covering the entire Hungarian nation, regardless of couples' political attitudes, and everyone can add to this according to their own knowledge and knowledge, and I think that it would have contributed to this if such legislation had been based on a broader political basis. But of course, as I said, however, we will support it, because it is not the most important element of such a law. I am pleased that the early childhood diseases, shortcomings, are growing out of this system, and amendments are being made that point towards lifelikeness. I must also point out the amendments made by my fellow Member István Szávay, which draw attention to the fact that there are also pointless cuts in the amendment, especially in relation to Hungarian organisations from abroad. I am sorry that they didn't take them seriously, they didn't understand, and I am doing another attempt to draw attention to them, and it would be worth considering, because the amendments made by my fellow Member Savay and which would be taken out of the amendment are really pointless. I wanted to say these briefly, and we hope that we will have a meaningful answer as to why it is so impossible for the opposition to participate in such a work with one person per faction. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.50]]
u2015-06-08-299	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. Congressman Zsolt Legány, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-08-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly. In the legislative committee's minority opinion, we have already practically said the criticisms that we addressed this legislation, but I would like to stress once again that in 2012 the Hungarian Parliament and all the parties supported it with full agreement. We welcome the legislative goal at that time and think it was very right. Since then, we have always supported all the things that had to do with this law and this bill before the Hungaricum Committee, and we have considered the points imported by the author to be overall professionally good and correct, and we believe that it is worthy of express support. However, as I have mentioned, the fact that opposition parties are excluded from the possibility of this work is, in particular, to force the opposition together to delegate one member to this committee, when it would otherwise be possible for the factions to delegate separately, so we will not be able to support this bill in this form. Once again, criticism is specifically about the fact that opposition parties cannot participate in this work as factions; otherwise, we fully agree with the professional part of it.
u2015-06-08-301	Thank you very much. I'll ask you again if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, I'm just asking you if you want to react. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] Here you go.
u2015-06-08-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums Indeed, the House has adopted a law in great agreement, and I believe that the three years that have passed since then have been carried out throughout the country in this cooperation. The purpose of the current bill is to clarify the legislation based on the experience of the past three years. There are a number of points in the bill that need to be clarified and some demands have been raised by practical application. I would like to quote the most important amendments. First of all, we aim to ensure that foreign value collection can be carried out on the domestic sample, so foreign national value values can be created, settlement unit depositories in a similar way to domestic practice. It is indeed necessary to review the tasks of the Hungaricum Committee. The tasks that have become obsolete or difficult to achieve in practice have been removed from the law as a result of the amendment. The amendment will increase the membership of the Hungaricum Committee. I note here that there is now a debate on whether the opposition can delegate by party. But this was not the proposal, but it was the possibility for members of the Hungaricum Committee to include a delegation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Defence, as values from these areas will also be added to our outstanding national values in the Hungarian Value Reserve and the Hungaricum Collection. The delegates of opposition representatives and nationalities in Hungary will be added to this. So we're up to five now. I am convinced that each new member in any committee will not help operativity. The aim is not necessarily to add political elements to this body. The Hungaricum Commission does not have a party political task, it is not a political body, so I also find it pointless to suggest that the opposition is forced out of the Hungaricum Committee, because it does not include the governing party in this form, but has two main members from the Hungarian Parliament, it will now become three, and according to its size, the opposition can propose and delegate one person. I think that would be avoided in the debate on Hungaricums in order to express parties individually, in a manner similar to the parliamentary debate, whether they support a given value or not. This element would inevitably turn up, and I don't think that would be good for the cause of the Hungaricums. We have tried to accept the proposals of Hungarian nationalities, and we have taken such a step. We welcome you very much, and the legislation will give you the opportunity for nationalities in Hungary to delegate, as their values are there in local securities depositories, they will be in regional unit depositories, county depositories, and it is therefore appropriate for them to participate in this work. However, we do not consider it appropriate to establish a separate national security depository. Although it should be considered that the Ministry of Nationalities could create this according to today's rules, I only ask that, for example, the Gypsy Orchestra of 100 members would be at the same time in the Cultural Value Reserve and would be in a single nationality. Or would a special dish, typically linked to nationalities, be involved in two types of depositories at the same time? So would we create another dimension, another aspect of the Hungaricums? I don't know if that's important. Nevertheless, I believe that the involvement of nationalities can also give impetus to collecting work in settlements. Here I return to the fact that we are constantly talking about the Hungaricum Committee, even though the local committees have been formed in almost 500 places across the country, and the local value committees certainly have left-wing people, civil conservatives or national radicals working side by side. So it's not that any section of society is forced out of this job. All in all, I thank you for the arguments and suggestions made during the debate, and I trust that we will also make this amendment in great agreement, like the adoption of the law that was born three years ago. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-08-303	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the national strategy for biodiversity conservation for 2015-2020 and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The submission is H/4581. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Sustainable Development as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate H/4581/4. and H/4581/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee H/4581/7. and the summary report is H/4581/8. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I now give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go. [[21.00]]
u2015-06-08-304	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 28 May 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/4581 on the national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity for the period 2015-2020. A proposal for a decision. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the 10-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Sustainable Development, which included clarifications and language positioning amendments. Our Commission adopted the amendments in the background by 29 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. I would like to make a brief comment on the proposal. Many domestic and international circumstances and obligations called for the strategy to be developed. What is this strategy? What is the purpose of this? In the national biodiversity strategy's 2020 vision, it sets out to halt the decline in biodiversity and the further decline in ecosystem services in Hungary and, if possible, to improve these services. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The strategy before us, linked to the national environmental programme, has set and focuses on the conservation of biodiversity. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 28 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-08-305	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to speak. I declare that the designated Committee for Sustainable Development has withdrawn its previously named rapporteur. As a result, there may now be speeches by Members, if any. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-06-08-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not wish to repeat what has been said in the general debate; Jobbik continues to support this draft. We just wanted to draw attention to what we also took the opportunity at the committee meeting to say that it would be good to have government intentions behind such strategies and not only to meet them at the level of beautiful words, but also to have appropriate budgetary resources grouped together. Then, I think that we could discuss proposals like this year after year, that we would always move a little further forward, that we could always look a little further into the future, and that, once we set realistic goals, we would also be able to achieve it. I think that then we could all be much more pleasant to participate in such a debate, and it would be a much more uplifting feeling to vote after that, since we would know that there is a guarantee behind it, there is a source and a government will behind it. I was just gonna draw attention to that right now, and like I said, we're gonna vote for it. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-307	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-06-08-308	Thank you very much for the floor. The national strategy for the period 2015-2020, annexed to the proposal for a decision, is also acceptable to us. We're just hoping this isn't just a story, it's not just that the paper can handle everything, because what we've seen from you in the last five years, from the Orbán government, it's discrediting it pretty strongly enough. We're really hoping that we'll not only see a story, but we'll keep it, though we know that people don't believe you anymore. It is difficult to take government intentions seriously when we have witnessed the destruction of the environmental institutional system in recent years. You have destroyed and plowed Kishantos, destroyed and plowed into the national parks in which we hope that the directorate of the national parks will now be saved, and that will not be up to you. The implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the strategy does not play a role in the proposal in a very typical manner of government policy. We believe that the report of 2017 is very little to do with this. That is why we hope that for the first time in their lives what has been written will be observed, and then acceptable to our faction. That's why we're going to support it. Let us hope that they are not pursuing the policy of the last five years in the future. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-08-309	Dear Parliament, If there is no further intention of commenting, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-06-08-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been a party to the Convention on Biological Diversity since 1993, which was adopted by LXXXI in 1995 for 20 years. We've declared you by law. The Convention requires all parties, including our country, to develop a national strategy for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. As the previous strategy lasted from 2009 to 2014, it expired last year, therefore it became necessary to review and renew it. International and EU commitments have been made in the meantime, which had to be incorporated into the new strategy. Its main objective is to stop Member States, including our country, by 2020, and to stop biodiversity loss and the decline of ecosystem services, and to restore habitats as much as possible. And here I would also like to mention the criticisms that have been published here in addition to the subsidies, which I would like to say that, even if they have said so many times, it is not true that, in the last five years, the government has not shown any special attention in this area. Let me give you an example of a few improvements. Up to now, the quality of habitats has improved as a target area on more than 118 thousand hectares, six forest schools have been renovated in this programme, three historical gardens, 31 habitat reconstructions on nearly 70 thousand hectares, 13 lifeless natural values, such as caves or kunhalms were renewed, 10-line installations had mid-voltage wires under the ground from a bird protection point of view, and 31 places had so-called management infrastructure development, affecting about 50 thousand hectares. We have the same plans for the coming years, where, on the one hand, the environmental status will be improved at another 100,000 hectares of COHEP resources, and, on the other hand, some 15 billion national parks will receive funding from the operational programme for economic innovation to renew their visiting centres. So it is not that the environmental issue has been pushed back in recent years and pushed back in the years to come. So with these additions, I think I may be able to convince my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-08-311	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports for the presentation of the national environmental programme 2015-2020 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now under way. The submission was made in H/4582. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Sustainable Development as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate H/4582/2. and report H/4582/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee H/4582/5. H/4582/6. Available on the website. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. There's a total of 15 minutes available for this. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. [[21.10]]
u2015-06-08-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 28 May 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/4582 on the national environmental programme 2015-2020. A proposal for a decision. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the 35-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Sustainable Development, which includes clarifications and language positioning amendments. The Commission adopted the proposals in the background by 28 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend it with its own eight points, which was supported by 28 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. The programme shall define the country's environmental objectives, the tasks and the means to achieve them, taking into account the country's capabilities, the long-term interests and future goals of society, as well as our obligations arising from global responsibility and international cooperation, EU membership. It sets out three basic strategic objectives: improving the quality of life and the conditions for a healthy human environment, protecting natural values and resources, using them in a sustainable way, and improving resource saving and efficiency, and greening the economy. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 28 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-08-313	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the author if he would like to comment on the debate now. [[Zsolt V. Németh: No.]] The Secretary of State says not now. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-06-08-314	Thank you very much. The MSZP fraction agrees with the objectives and actions of the national environmental programme by 2020. We can say the same thing we said in the previous proposal. We're just hoping that what's written is going to happen, and it's not going to happen to him that it's really just the paper that you guys wrote, and you just wave at it, because it doesn't have to be done, because no one believes it's gonna happen. That's why we're just hoping. At the same time, we support what is written in the paper to be realized. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-315	I ask Mr. Zsolt V. Németh, if he wishes to comment. [[Zsolt V. Németh: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now in order. The submission was made by T/4646. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Welfare as a designated committee T/4646/3. and T/4646/4. was given to them. T/4646/6. T4646/7. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-08-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 28 May is the House Rule 46. T/4646. It submitted a bill amending certain health and health insurance legislation and presented 27 amendments and a summary report summing up to it with 3 non-votings and 1 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains almost all the points in the motion of the Welfare Committee, and in the remaining three cases, the Legislative Committee will correct the committee's proposal for entry into force. The bill as a whole seeks to make use of health experience for patients, whether professional issues or health management. It is also important to point out that the provisions on tobacco control have been included in the bill by adopting EU rules, while it is essential to amend the law in order to combat new design drugs. As regards the latter, I note that the National Addictology Center of the National Institute for the Development of Health has completed 55/2014 on substances or groups of compounds classified as new psychoactive substances. a risk assessment of the five substances included in the new psychoactive list of the Regulation and initiated the inclusion of the substance in the list of psychotropic substances. In view of this, the authorities are now also bravely fighting the recent so-called "Facebook awareness-modifying agent." With the adoption of this proposal, I believe that a number of bureaucratic obstacles will be removed from the health system, making patient care more rapid and efficient. At the same time, changes to the law are also taking steps to preserve health, so we hope that fewer people will need treatment and medical care. I therefore respectfully ask the Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-08-317	I'll ask Gábor Zombor if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[Dr. Gábor Zombor says no.]] He doesn't want to. The designated Welfare Committee did not set up a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mrs Bene Ildikó.
u2015-06-08-318	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have discussed several times that it is a very important goal for our public health indicators to move in a positive direction, and our aim is to ensure that health care can be provided in an appropriate way, in addition to the above. This bill can be regarded as a determining element of these processes. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us proposes a number of main objectives. The amendment to the Act on the Management and Protection of Health and Related Personal Data clarifies the rules for the electronic transmission of vaccineed identity data. In the context of the preservation of health records, it requires that, in the case of foreign prescriptions, if the original foreign prescription is returned at the request of the patient, the pharmacy retains the second copy for five years. The amendment of the law on compulsory health insurance provides that, in the case of a customer's choice, electronic administration may be provided by the health insurance company for the price of the medicinal product, the nutritional supplement satisfying the particular nutritional need, and for the price or repair fee of the medical aid. The bill contains an extension of the aid that may be claimed under individual fairness in respect of a specific range of medical aids to the lending institution. It is important that the amendment also clarifies the legislation on the calculation and use of care for certain categories of children who are entitled to care and childcare fees in order to further encourage childbearing. It is very important that the amendment of the Act on General Rules for the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and the Act on General Rules for the distribution of medicinal products which receive social security aid clarifies the rules on the obligation to make payments laid down in the volume contract between the marketing authorisation holders of medicinal products receiving social security aid and the OEP. In addition, the amendment of the law on the development of the health care system will allow capacity grouping among the various reserved providers required on the basis of practical needs to be flexible in establishing a more responsive supply system. I am pleased that, in both the general debate and in the detailed debate held by the Committee on Welfare, my fellow Members have provided support for the bill. I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect that they continue to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-08-319	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-06-08-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Our position has not changed since we spoke on this issue longer in the general debate. As we said then, we could even say that this salad law is okay with us. This proposal changes a lot of administrative action in the health sector in order, on the one hand, to ensure compliance with EU directives and European law, and, on the other hand, to remove the bureaucratic obstacles that have previously been decided. However, it must be said that it contains provisions to remove bureaucratic obstacles, even if not to the extent that our Fidesz fellow Members say that now there will be a great deal of bureaucratic obstacles and effective health and prevention. I have to stop here for a second. If it serves this purpose, it certainly does not reach this proposal. [[21.20]] We believe that health care in its present state, as we have said in many speeches, is bleeding from a lot of wounds. The question of doctor, caregiver migration, gratitude money, debt, how to keep the workers and nurses at home, I think these are the issues on which the government should reflect, rather than putting down administrative acts or administrative provisions that were inevitable at some level, doing good industrial work. We have just heard from the Secretary of State in the debate that the proposal for basic care is coming in a week's time. Now it's true that this week we're gonna have a basic supply proposal, so we're in a week, and it's only a month between the two. I fear that there will also be sufficient disappointment for the actors in health care, as I believe, that in this case, too, if the government had already touched on these issues, it could have been a much deeper, much more understanding, analytical and appropriate presentation of answers, rather than an administrative, good industrial work here. I also asked, as a question, where are the additional resources at the disposal of health care, since the chips tax, all kinds of special taxes, the health contribution to tobacco companies, which was set at 11.5 billion in the 2016 budget, even though this year only 9 billion will come in, where it goes, what we can start with, and what priority lines there are that can be spent on. I think these are the questions that you should really reflect on. Even at the time, health and the EMMI budget were not known in its proportions, although I stressed that we were already losing a rather serious proportion when we wrote certain numbers for certain purposes and wrote other numbers for other purposes. Therefore, I would like to say quickly that, as long as we give 5.5 billion for the maintenance of the entire infrastructure in health care, and we also give 5.5 billion for the maintenance and financing of five football clubs in Budapest, I think we are losing a minimum proportion. If the Hungarian Olympic Committee receives 37 billion forints and the National Rescue Service receives only 32 billion forints, then I believe that the EMMI again did not have very important debates about which is the top priority. I think it's the ambulance service, even if it's Olympic year. Of course, I would also like to know what the Hungarian Olympic Committee is spending 37 billion on, but why not at least get an ambulance. At least as much as the Olympic Committee. I think they might be more important. The question is also raised, and still needs to be answered, when we buy medical aids, and they can obviously be rented, which, I think, is a process to be welcomed at some level, but then we are talking about a huge amount of money. We are talking about an international or at least European public procurement. I trust that we will be able to carry out this procurement procedure transparently and in a way where, to say the least, there will be no unpleasant questions, no kinship, no strings attached to the governing party, but there will actually be a clean competition. As with imaging diagnostics, private imaging diagnostics - I refer to János Lázár's statement, which was about a month and a half ago - would be won by the state for HUF 100-150 billion. I think these are the open questions that arise with regard to the bill. However, we are faced with a proposal introducing administrative acts, although I think we are dealing with such a very non-enhancing proposal, once again, with a good industrial work that could obviously be supported in this form, but yet what is our problem is that it does not reflect on the issues that are real problems and burning problems in health care. The workers are on the street, and the patients are afraid to go to the hospital. We hear a lot of things that if someone wants to go to imaging diagnostics, they'll be happy to take a DVD and a CD that can be written with them, and they're not in hospitals anymore. I do not think that these are the most important tasks we have now. This must also be done, this may be very important, but I also think, of course, that much more energy should also be devoted to solving the real problems and once again to highlighting the proportions and setting the priorities properly. I do not know a politician in this House who would not say that health and education are the most important. Yet, when we discuss the budget, and you tell me these ratio pairs, even when I read it, it makes my blood boil, let alone when I tell you, and then the health government leaves it unanswered why it doesn't lobby for itself, a little more could be done from hospital consolidation, starting through wage increases through career models. What we see next year is that it will cover roughly 60 percent of the contribution revenue in the whole of the E-case, and the rest will have to be combined with the budget, let me put it this way. The structural problems remain, and will the debt that is now very difficult to generate with such a loan at the end of the month - should I say, to a large extent? - they paid me, but they might only pay a small portion. We believe that this is what this proposal should be about. I'm not going to go along with the characteristics of salad law in general. Of course, no Member likes salad law, but we know that it is part of our lives, and we have to live with it. This is the opinion of the Socialist Party, and we will act accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-08-321	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, representative of the LMP.
u2015-06-08-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal before us is undoubtedly better than Fidesz's social policy measures so far, at least partly reminiscent of a humane, just regulation. Some parts are eligible and important, such as provisions on childcare. On the other hand, there are painfully incomplete parts, only the families of the parents who have jobs are worth supporting while forgetting about the unemployed parents and their children. This is a huge mistake because it punishes children, distinguishing between children and children. Raising family allowances and childcare benefits could be of great help to these families. The birth of the second child and the employment of women are also facilitated by another amendment, which will ensure that mothers returning to work part-time in addition to the child will use the former higher income as a basis for determining the amount of the family in case of new childbearing. If part-time income is the basis for benefits when establishing a new basis for benefits for the maternity working next to the child, then the amount of care may be less than if she did not return to work. However, it is important to add that part-time work, in addition to today's low pay, is not a real solution for mothers. We have repeatedly proposed to facilitate flexible full-payment work, but this has all been voted out. The ged extra bill introduced the pointless rule that restricts the access of fathers to this care. According to this, if the mother wants to return to the labour market after the age of one year and the father wants to use the child, she can only do so after 60 days of work. So they don't pay him the benefits for two months. It is a serious achievement from the current majority of governments that they now acknowledge their previous rule that this is an unjustified restriction. It's better late than never. An important element is individual equity lending, on which the LMP has already taken a clear position. Because of its importance, we would reiterate that, while the OEP provides support for the formula, it is not necessary to purchase or borrow tools for the production of breast milk. It's important to change that. We therefore agree with government intentions in these areas, but the proposed regulation remains problematic in many other respects that it would no longer be considered an operational accident, which is partly due to the worker's alcohol influence, for example. [[21.30]] We believe that if the accident is only partly affected, then it should not be treated by refusing the quality of the factory accident, as is the case with the right to compensation at other times, the behaviour liable should be taken into account when assessing the claim for compensation. There are other issues that can significantly influence the effectiveness of a point in the proposal in the end, such as how to clarify the requirement for pharmacists. According to this, specialist medicine training is required for the management of a pharmacy. This would be supportive in itself, but we no longer know if any specialist medicine degree will be appropriate, because not all specialist medicine training makes pharmacists fit for this task. That is why there are doubts about the future application. Finally, rules on tobacco products are more acceptable than the level of social damage that tobacco causes in our country. Tens of thousands of deaths continue to be linked to smoking-related diseases every year, and 275,000 Hungarian citizens lost their lives between 2000 and 2012 for the same reason. No country can afford to do this kind of damage to smoking. Overall, we will act in such a way that we will abstain on the summary proposal, while we will abstain on the final vote, as it still represents progress in many things compared to the previous one, and we will therefore support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-08-323	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2015-06-08-324	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for participating in the final debate and listening to all that is being said here by the committee and also by Members. Here we have just discussed the public health objectives, which are very important. However, this is a bit contrary to the European Union directive, which, by the way, was first discussed on the Legislative Committee on the basis of the amendment of the Welfare Committee. In essence, this was the rules for smoking and for packaging consumer packages for smoking. This directive itself sets out a lot of parameters for smoking, on the one hand with regard to the ingredients of tobacco, because it can be flavoured, because it can be enriched, what individual boxes should be made of, but here the most important change, which may have adverse consequences from a public health point of view, is the appearance of the 20 fibre consumer package, because it will change again from 19 fibres to 20 fibres. Let us say that it is also a good direction - and perhaps this is the way to praise the directive - that it will extract extra additives from these tobacco products, which have been enriched with vitamins or enriched with various flavours. Bad news for those who smoked menthol cigarettes, however, is that from 2020 menthol cigarettes will not be available on the market. By the way, this type of cigarette has a 16 percent market share, so there's going to be a pretty serious restructuring on the market by then. The interesting thing was, therefore, that by virtue of such a directive, the salad had to be added a little more salad, and a little more modification of what the government had originally imported. Jobbik has always been consistent and committed to banning designer drugs and effective action against designer drugs. Several times, however, we have been continuously articulating this to the government. They assured us of their support, and there's nothing more proof of that than that at the trial of the Autumn Salad Law, I myself have indicated compounds that are now returning to that C-list. So the government is also trying and the authorities are also trying to keep up with the otherwise relentless pace of developing labs, usually east and east. We have asked the government to take even more effective action in this, and we have expressed this opinion in the Legislative Committee, and we have also expressed it in the general debate. I do not wish - as many people have dealt with before me - to deal with the general's problems, what is on the shoulders of health care, I think that there will still be room for it, there will still be a framework for it, and we have said it in many places and many times, and the government has certainly had to listen to our position. With regard to the spring salad law, the advantages, disadvantages and challenges were mentioned in the general debate, thus the position of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is known. This salad law, the spring salad law, will be supported by Jobbik, so it will be supported by the party. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-325	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see this, so the debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Gábor Zombor if he wants to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-08-326	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the active participation in the debate and for your support, even if you consider it to be such an industrial work, because there are important elements of this often seeming administrative regulation. Here with regard to the salad law, it is always said that the salad law format is not good, and I told you the other day that health care is regulated by so many laws and there are a lot of links between certain laws that we have not found a better way. This also makes it a little easier for Members, as we are currently able to amend seven laws in a legislative procedure, and until this can be achieved by consensus, I think that the legislation governing health care is worth reviewing more often because of designer drugs. If we can create better, more effective, less bureaucratic rules and those that are beneficial to patients or health workers, based on better intentions and experience, or taking into account proposals, this is worth doing. I would like to answer some of the questions at the end here that were said in the general debate and before the Legislative Committee. The adoption of the Smoking Directive - and I say this to Mr Luke - is basically all of it, and this means decisively tightening up, we need to adopt it in a uniform way, which is in the directive. So you can't do what you don't like, not what you like, but what you like. The amending proposal itself narrows down in a package the quantity of the original proposal or of the framework numbers set out in the directive, the quantity of cigarettes, because there is a magnitude of between 20 and 50, and we have kept this to a minimum. Similarly, inscription, packaging, additives measures are practically all means to be taken over in full and the Hungarian law on the protection of non-smokers becomes an EU standard. It is likely that the directive will change anyway, as it is also under ongoing review in the European Union, and we will also have to take these over. I would like to say to Mr Cook that everything that comes from a special tax to the E-Fund is going to raise wages. So the chips tax, the excise duty on tobacco, these are all sources of wage increases, which we don't think are enough, so there's no debate between us, but there's a consistency in this, too, compared to recent years. I have repeatedly engraved the comment on medical aids, and I am trying to make sure that there is no suspicion of what the Member says. Here, thank God, the money that can be spent will grow next year, and I think that those that have been mentioned and said may not have a debate in them. [[21.40]] After all, if I may say a little funny, all opposition amendments were supported by the government, because they were not, so we are united in this. On the issue of breast milk, I would like to say to Mr Ikotity that the ministerial regulation contains the possibility to borrow related instruments. The proposals made in the general debate were, therefore, incorporated almost without exception in the Commission's amendment proposal. Thank you so much for your support, and I'll see you on Friday. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-327	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain criminal law laws and the final amendment proposal follow up. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The submission is T/4643. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4643/16. and T/4643/17. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4643/19. and the summary report is T/4643/20. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-08-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 4 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/4643 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws. Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the 9-point amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee, which was supported by 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 2 abstentions. The Legislative Committee expressed its own intention to amend it, which was adopted by 25 votes to six, with two abstentions. I would like to mention that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the legislative proposal is 32. If I may put it this way, there was a legal dogmatic dispute surrounding the amendment of §8 of the Act. The MSZP representative, Mr Gergely Bárándy, made a proposal for an amendment, on which he also asked for a separate vote, within the elements of the facts of the organisation of prohibited gambling. Not even as regards the element of facts, sorry, but as regards the sentence, for which he proposed in point (c) and asked for a separate vote, so whoever called for the participation in the illicit gambling in the public eye proposed a clause which would be punishable by imprisonment for a period of one year. The portfolio's position was contrary, and I believe that I agree that it is more appropriate to entrust the application of judicial law to the application of a lot within the borders from the beginning to the end, rather than to determine in the law that a lower item should be applied. It is also an important opinion from the Secretary of State that this is a deliberate crime. So, before we agreed to the debate on how to do this, there was a debate with my good fellow Member, Szilágyi, about what this 32th floor actually pedalizes. §. I also agree that this is a deliberate crime, and therefore the legislative proposal tabled by the Commission with the intention of clarification will stand up to it, and so in my coherent position. The bill as a whole contains amendments to the legislation that have been required since the entry into force of the new Criminal Code by the problems encountered in the case law. These are primarily legislation on criminal matters, amending the law on Btk. and the law on criminal proceedings. I do not wish to go along with what was said in the general debate before the in-depth debate, there are many institutions that we definitely consider to be supported and the whole bill itself. Just let me refer to one of its important elements, one of the important but not most important elements is the issue of reintegration detention. There was no criticism or opposition on these issues. I think that the Committee therefore recommends that the summation amendment and the summary report be adopted by 25 votes to six, with two abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-329	The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-06-08-330	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mr Pigeon, said that there was indeed a debate not on the entire bill in the Legislative Committee, but on a segment of it, the organisation of illicit gambling. As my fellow Member has also spoken about the minority position, I will now make this brief. Technically, Jobbik's representative suggested that certain conducts do not differ much from other practices, otherwise not prohibited by law. For example, the provision of a card table may be an act not prohibited by law, and the same conduct, if it is made available to facilitate illegal gambling and its organisation, is a criminal offence. Here the Secretary of State said, and in this respect I share his position that it is indeed the intention that is decisive, so it depends on whether he is doing this with the intention, with the content and intention of promoting this activity, or not with this content of consciousness, and then, as a matter of fact, it is something else. I think this is the final here. The fact that, as in this bill, it is sometimes difficult to judge in other, otherwise similar, legislative areas is a fact. So the same is the case when there can be a preparatory attitude, by the way, if the intention is removed from the plot, an attitude not prohibited by law. Of course, buying an axe in a farmer's store to chop wood with it is obviously not a crime, but buying the same axe to kill another person is already a preparation for manslaughter. The MSZP basically did have legal dogmatic excuses, as my fellow Member said; here I can confirm that it is for me in particular. I will talk more about this in my speech, but the point was that, in my view, preparation behaviour cannot be measured by the same standards as the completed crime and sanctioned in the same way. I think this is a dogmatic error, a legislative error, but I will discuss this further in my proper speech. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-331	Honourable Member, you don't even have to sit down, because you can start a proper speech. You have the floor again.
u2015-06-08-332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I'll do this, I'll start and I'll keep going. Well, I'd like to start by saying that we have basically no problem with the ban. I therefore do not think it necessarily wrong that, in the event of the organisation of illicit gambling, as in other criminal offences, certain party behaviours, in particular accomplices and certain preparatory behaviours, should be punished by the law. [[21.50]] This is good, because it is obviously not a crime of gravity where it should be done because of the physical weight of the crime, but perhaps it is fortunate that the crime will be punished at an earlier stage and thus prevent such completed crimes from taking place. However, I see two problems here, perhaps even three. I am doing one at the level of mention, and I hope that the government has properly explored this question, whether the pedalisation of such behaviour, the organisation of a forbidden gambling game, and its preparatory behaviour, will reach the level that makes this behaviour constitutionally punishable. In many cases, the Constitutional Court has been up in the last two and a half decades to ensure that this does not meet the requirements of necessity and proportionality. I do not know the position of the new Constitutional Court in this regard, and I sincerely hope that this is judged correctly in the Government. On the other hand, which is a more serious problem, and I would like to stress that this is not a question of legal policy, as Mr Secretary of State said at the committee meeting, but it is an explicit codification error if, under the same circumstances, the attitude of actress, party and preparation is not only regulated in a legal matter, but the same sentence is attached to it. These behaviours, whether part of them or, if you look at the stage, they have the possibility of sanctioning the behaviour of a preparatory nature. Two or even three techniques are known for this in the case of preparation of criminal law. One is when we create a sui generis situation, and in it we define preparation or even, let's say, a party attitude as an act of action. The other option is to punish him within the same facts. It's branching in two again. One of them is that preparation can usually be punished - this, say, in the case of manslaughter - and some or only one can be punished for preparing behavior. Here, too, the legislator has broken a spear and, among the many preparatory behaviours, he wishes to sanction the call. I note that it might be possible to extend this circle a little bit, because if a call is a crime, then, let's say, an agreement in a joint commission as a preparation behavior cannot be. Here, perhaps, it would be better if we had already sanctioned the preparation, including the entire spectrum in the regulatory sphere; but only by codifying it as a lesser rule than the completed act of action. In criminal law, I don't know of a paragraph, a law, where there's a complete act of action and any prep behaviour that would be regulated in the same way. And since the sentence is not really of such great importance here, because if I threaten a person with a three-year sentence or a one-year sentence, the judge, especially if he is not judged as an act of set-up, is obviously in a completely different position, or if he doesn't repeat it, he will not impose a prison sentence. That's why I think it's a shame to break criminal law. In the Btk., as I said at the committee meeting, a separate section provides that, in the event of an experiment and preparation, it is possible, in particular, to mitigate twice as much as so-called double landings when imposing the penalty. Criminal law makes it very clear that it intends to sanction the preparation behaviour in a completely different way, giving it a different weight than the completed crime. Therefore, I say that it is not a matter of law that I wish to regulate this together. Mr. Secretary, do you know when this would have been a legal issue? If the new Btk. is made up by saying, on a principled level, that the preparation behaviour should be in line with the completed crime. I think it would contradict all previous developments in criminal law, but regardless, it would have been a matter of principle. Now I think that if this principle has not been taken, then this is nothing more than a simple codification error. The reason I do not understand the government's isolation on this issue is because, basically, opposition parties are attacking not the political part of this, but they say that sanctioning is possible, just choose another technique. One thing would be worth highlighting is whether there is a need for it, and in the course of corridor discussions, many of us have come to this position as to whether there really is a point in sanctioning the call, because it is quite rare to punish someone for calling and not for organizing illegal gambling. Because the person who organises illicit gambling is part of publishing or making a personal call for others to participate in such a game. So here the call may look like the authorities are turning on time and shutting down the gamble organizer when the act is only in the preparation stage, or the gamble organizer is not the same person who otherwise publishes the call or puts out the call. So there will be very little practical use, I think, of this fact. I would ask the Secretary of State to reconsider that we should not make such an explicit codification error in Btk. when there is a relatively good system of this law, unlike many other laws; then let us not destroy its system. I am surprised that the staff of the Ministry of Justice, who, by the way, are supposed to be professional in codification, do not see this, I tell you honestly, when, I say again, this is of no legal importance. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-08-333	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-08-334	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I don't want to go into what's happened between us once before at the TAB, and I don't want to waste much time on the forbidden gambling paragraph, but I'm convinced that once again, I'm going to have to make clear laws. In this law, ensuring the use of the instrument - I understand that, and so said the Secretary of State, that will have to be proved, but unfortunately, the law is drafted in such a way that, in the same case, if I judge it, he knew about it and committed this crime intentionally, and if I judge it, he did not know about it. Such opportunities should not be allowed to be such considerations, I say once again, by carrying out the same act, but it is difficult to prove, depending on that assessment. In particular, I said that from then on something, even card games, will become illegal gambling, and from then on it will become illegal gambling if it is played for money. So, in fact, someone should also know who gives, say, a room for this purpose or only provides a table that was actually played there for money, because the same game can be played without it being illegal gambling. But there were more important things that you did not take into account in this bill, our amendment proposals. After all, I feel that it is far more important that when serious murders happen in the country, which rightfully upset public opinion, this was, let's say, the tragic murder in Kaposvár, and Fidesz feels that after this murder, as he sees that society is outraged, even the Prime Minister talks about the death penalty, in cases where it should be done not in words to retaliate these serious crimes, but also in actions, of course, you are no longer partners in this. [[22.00]] After all, my fellow Members, Gábor Staudt and István Apáti, have tabled a proposal for an amendment, which is nothing more than to allow criminals who are 20 years of age to receive life in prison, but rather to do so when they are over the age of 18 and commit this crime in such a way as to give the court the opportunity to give life in prison, because the Kaposvár killer, because he has not reached his 20th year of life, can escape this terrible act by up to 13 years. In our opinion, this is not permissible, but I can tell you other serious crimes like this. You remember the murder at the Sopron shooting range, where two family fathers were killed, otherwise wealthy young men. Five orphan children were left behind by the victims, and they could not be sentenced to life imprisonment, so the court has no opportunity to sentence them to life in prison simply because they did not turn 20. We have suggested that when one reaches 18 years of age, so he becomes a young adult, from then on he can decide about himself on any issue, he can be treated as an adult, he knows exactly what he is doing, so he is willing to make independent decisions in life, starting with the court - when, and I stress, we are talking about classified cases of manslaughter - he should have the opportunity to impose life imprisonment in such serious cases. That is what we wanted to achieve with our amendment proposal. Of course, despite the fact that after the murder in Kaposvár, you have been shouting loudly for the death penalty, this amendment was not supported. I don't understand why you couldn't support him. I know very well that it is not only the punishment that counts; it is at least as important that the perpetrators, before committing a crime, are aware, let us say, that there is a strong police force in Hungary, which is not exactly what can be said today, and they know that a large part of these crimes are being investigated is a huge deterrent force. It can also be a huge deterrent, say from the point of view of the perpetrators, that when they go to prison, they should not serve their sentence under luxury conditions, but should serve their imprisonment in trying circumstances. But once again, it can be a deterrent if these people are aware, let's say, that they can stay in prison for the rest of their lives for what they've done. I know that Mr Secretary of State here in the general debate referred to the Csemegi Code, right, we are talking about the end of the 1800s when the Csemegi Code was created. They refer to the Csetmegi Code in this, but the death penalty is included in it, but then, it doesn't matter, let's say, the Csetmegi Code rules. So, in my opinion, you could have accepted that, and you didn't. It shows how different words and actions are in general with Fidesz. So in words, you are always very radical, always very hard, but when you have to act, that is not what we are experiencing, and that is not what we are seeing. I would like to mention one more thing. Also my fellow Member Gábor Staudt and István Apáti tabled the proposal that I also spoke about during the general debate, and that is, in fact, that the reception of the visitor outside the institution, the absence and the duration of his departure are included in imprisonment. In our opinion, this is neither appropriate nor appropriate, since a criminal has been given by the independent Hungarian court, discussing his case, judging by all circumstances, to a certain prison sentence. When this prison sentence is imposed by the court, there must be no other way to say, in any form, even to the slightest extent, to override this judgment. And here, if we leave this in it - and you will leave it in it, because we have no doubt that you will leave it in the law - if you leave it in it, that means that the bv commander will reduce the length of the sentence that the court has imposed with these leave and omissions. After all, when the prisoner leaves there, he's not inside the prison walls, he'll still count on his punishment. So I think it's a bit of a legal nonsense, you might say, that a judge's judgment, whatever opportunity it may be, but even days, will still be reduced by the convict whose punishment the court, I say once again, must have given proper consideration. So we very much regret that these amendments and even a number of our other amendments have not been supported. What I would also like to ask you, for the future, is that much less radicalism in your rhetoric and much more radicalism in your actions, so that we can change in Hungary the unblessed state that describes the crime; the unblessed conditions that you may experience in the countryside, or, thanks to your bad legislation, we have experienced in this country over the past period with regard to the tramps. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-335	I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment on the debate. As a proposer, he says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-08-336	Excuse me, Mr President, I would like to ask whether this is the closing word or whether I should comment on the debate.
u2015-06-08-337	That's the closing word. That's all there is.
u2015-06-08-338	My apologies to my fellow Members, I originally wanted to speak before them, but it was not up to me that Mr Barándy gave the committee's opinion, and then he was given the floor when he remembered. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I remember.]] But this debate has been carried out several times, and I would like to point out to you one thing that I would like to suggest to you that, in my knowledge, or by examining the Criminal Code, what is the difference between the invitation to organise illegal gambling and the preparation of the organisation of illicit gambling and its criminal judgement. Examining the penal code is not exactly the dogmatical rule that Congressman Barándy has said, to be precise: that is only half of it. Thus, it is undoubtedly true that the punitive conduct is generally punished more lightly by the criminal code. He's usually punished lower by a sentence. Yes, but in that case, the criminal code always says - please check, I have done it in the last few minutes, as is the section - who makes preparations for the crime in question, such and such is the punishment. And when the criminal code makes a prep behaviour, an attitude that fits into the concept of preparation, a specific sui generis criminal offence, it is not necessarily the case that it punishes it with a lower or lighter sentence, but usually with the same punishment. In fact, it is also possible that the invitation itself, an invitation to commit a crime or something else, let's just say that a conceptually prepared act can be punished even more severely by the fact that... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Which one?]] There is such a crime, for example, among child pornography, where the acquisition of child pornography or the invitation to participate in child pornography or the invitation to act as an actor threatened with the same punishment. So this attitude, the call for the organisation of illicit gambling, is not the same as the preparation of the illicit gambling crime, but a preparatory attitude is highlighted. Not only is one highlighted, but it is indeed an accomplice attitude, and even two accomplices are highlighted. The TAB's proposal includes the provision of the instrument and, moreover, other accomplices' conduct has already been punishable by the same punishment. [[22.10]] So to sum up, I don't want to get involved in this subject for a long time, but what's happening here is not that the legislator is declaring the preparation completely criminal, but that certain preparations and certain criminal behaviors are punished as sui generis, as a stand-alone fact. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's not sui generis, it's in the facts!]] But because it's in separate sections within the facts, check this, Congressman. But I think this is a debate that, let's say, at a criminal law seminar, could be an interesting debate, and I don't think it's likely that this is too exciting for Parliament. I think you should check it out. Where the preparation is named by the law, where it is specifically named, the law thus states that the preparation is punishable, not listed or highlighted by some of the acts of preparation. Dear House, This is not what I wanted to talk about in the first place, but I wanted to say that a number of amendments have been tabled by Members, and I wanted to say why we cannot support them. It was not referred to by an amendment tabled by one of its Members, and Mr Szilágyi would also allow for the possibility of imprisonment of life in respect of persons over the age of 20 and over the age of 18. I referred to the fact that Hungarian criminal law differentiates between adult and young adult offenders, so the degree of differentiation is not as high as in the Csemegi Code, because the Csemegi Code explicitly established three categories of offenders: juvenile, young adult and adult offenders. We are now not so differentiated as perpetrators, but judicial practice has established this different punishment for young adults between the ages of 18 and 21. In this it is thought that a person under 20 years of age is treated by criminal law as having no reason to be permanently isolated from society if he commits a crime that could result in an adult being sentenced to life imprisonment, so a fixed-term sentence may be imposed on young adults. Nor was it acceptable to propose an amendment which would not provide for the possibility of placing them in the religious department to be punished in prison capacity. In addition to the fact that the amendment would discriminate between prisoners with regard to the practice of religion, it would not be in line with the rules applicable to other special departments, since it is ensured in all such departments that the prisoners will be accommodated together regardless of the degree of execution. Several amendments have been tabled by its representatives, which have made proposals contrary to the Fundamental Law and to the provisions in force, or have initiated the withdrawal of provisions which have been effective in the functioning of the criminal justice system for many years. Therefore, the motion to abolish paid leave for working prisoners could not be supported, and neither was the motion to remove leave and leave from the reward that could be granted to the sentenced person. I would like to mention again to you, or at least to conclude at the end of the debate, I would like to repeat to you the main provisions and main directions of the proposal. In particular, the bill provides the necessary conditions for the effective and effective functioning of the reintegration detention which was introduced on 1 April 2015, but wishes to make it clear to the sentenced person that reintegration is part of the prison and that its rules are subject to strict consequences. Under the new rules to raise awareness of this, a person who makes a serious breach of the rules of reintegration detention in order to exclude himself from the execution of a prison sentence is a prisoner escape. Another important objective of the bill is to introduce changes to speed up procedures and improve efficiency through the laws concerned, on the basis of the comments made by the law enforcement authorities. This includes provisions facilitating the judicial review procedure of the prison judge while maintaining maximum guarantees. The new provisions which provide for the possibility for the prosecutor to transfer the right of disposal to the investigating authority in some cases, or for him to be admitted to the penitentiary in certain cases for detention, will also increase efficiency. At some points, the proposal strengthens the government's strict criminal policy, it implements it and expands it with new instruments. Thus, on the basis of the proposal, failure to report bribery will be punishable for all corruption offences in the interest of zero tolerance in the area of the prosecution of corruption. I have just mentioned the punishment for newer practices in the organisation of illicit gambling, and the proposal is also taking further steps in the area of drug trafficking and terrorist financing, as there is a growing tendency to commit acts using the Internet. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Then I ask you to support the bill with your votes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-339	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now up to LVII of 1996 on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legal provisions relating to the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority and the summary amendment proposal. The submission was made by T/4644. ) can be found on the Parliament's IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4644/3. and T/4644/4. was given to them. T/4644/6. and the summary report is T/4644/7. Available on the website. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, in which I shall give the floor to Mr Bence Tuzson, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-08-340	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the Legislative Committee discussed the bill at its meeting on 28 May 2015, of which T/4644. the serial number. The Committee had the amendment tabled by the Committee, which was a three-point amendment. Our Commission supported the first two points, but it did not support point 3, as it included it in another amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, so the Legislative Committee made another amendment in this respect with clarifications. Accordingly, the Committee's amendment was supported by 29 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions in respect of points 1 and 2. The amendment, cited above by the Legislative Committee, which included, as I mentioned, also supported point 3 of the Economic Committee's amendment, with 28 votes in favour, no votes against and six abstentions. The Hungarian Competition Law and competition law are a highly developed area of law and a fairly well harmonised area of law, together with other rules of the European Union, so that European Union rules and European Union experience can be very well incorporated into Hungarian law. This is a constantly evolving area of law, which, with the change in economic life and the development of the rules of the economy, can and must be developed. Accordingly, although this area of law is capable of guaranteeing competition in all respects, and also of protecting the new businesses who enter the market properly, it is necessary to review this legislation on a continuous basis, since both EU practice and domestic practice allow and require that these legislation be constantly amended and monitored by the market's challenges in this regard. [[22.20]] Accordingly, a review of this and a related amendment has now been carried out, and according to the need to always be modern and effective in competition law, it is necessary to follow the challenges of the market and, accordingly, we are constantly monitoring what EU practice is, what domestic experience is, and we are constantly amending this legislation. Accordingly, the committee also formulated the summary amendment proposal and its summary report, which was supported by 28 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions, and asked the Parliament to support it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-08-341	I ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment as rapporteur at the beginning. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] He doesn't want me, he'll want me at the end. The designated Economic Committee did not set out a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-06-08-342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Act T/4644 amending Act T/4644 on the amendment of certain legal provisions relating to the procedures of the Economic Competition Authority We have a proposal ahead of us. Dániel Z. Kárpát submitted an amendment to the proposal, which was rejected by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which was not supported. However, the Committee has tabled a further amendment to which the legislative committee has made a smaller codification clarification in its summarised amendment, as we have heard. Allow me to present the contents of this to you now. Point 1 of the summary proposal contains grammatical clarification. Point 2 is essentially a clarification of the provision to be incorporated, which makes it clear that no direct or indirect restriction of the right to access documents is achieved through that provision. Moreover, those wishing to exercise their right of access to the file should only be required to make personal and protected data contained in the documents of the administrative procedure confidential and to make a copy of the documents so extracted 188/2009. They shall be reimbursed if a copy of the document extracted by making personal and protected data confidential is made to the person exercising his right of access to the file. Point 3 of the summary proposal is the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. organises matters of competence in the field of law. XLVI 2015 on the amendment of the Food Chain Act. Law 10 repealed Article 10 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) § ( 2) to (4) which required that the food marking and the method of marking applied and the presentation of food should not mislead the final consumer in respect of the characteristics laid down by law. These two sections have been replaced by several EU directives. This provision also provides that the food marking and the method of marking used shall not attribute to or give the impression of the presence of the food's characteristics for the prevention, treatment or treatment of disease. The above provisions shall also apply to advertising under the Food Chain Act. In the event of their infringement, the Economic Competition Authority was entitled to act, but Article 10 of the Food Chain Act. In repealing paragraphs 2 to 4, an exlex situation arose that it was not possible to know which authority would act against undertakings which had broken the above rules before 5 May 2015. This point of the amendment clarifies that the Economic Competition Authority remains responsible in these cases. Allow me to remind you of the main drivers behind the proposal. The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. A comprehensive review and amendment of the Act last took place in 2013. During the period since the entry into force of the amendments, the experience gained in the operation of the Competition Authority and its procedures with regard to the application of the new provisions makes it necessary to revise certain provisions of the Act on unfair market conduct and to amend the procedural provisions in force. The amendments aim primarily to facilitate effective and effective enforcement of competition requirements by amending the rules on competition law procedures. In addition, the amendments aim to provide insight into the documents of the Competition Authority's proceedings and to clarify the regulation of the handling and availability of data. It is also intended to take account of the fact that the State's action against undertakings is also aimed at educating it to follow-up behaviour, in accordance with which it may be justified to use a warning in the case of the first infringement, with the exception of certain more serious infringements. The amendments also aim to improve the effectiveness of action against infringements of competition law in connection with public procurement procedures. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment and the Commission report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-08-343	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-06-08-344	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Socialist Party sees this question a little more nuanced, but I think - of course I will explain this in the explanation of our voting behaviour - that there are innovative ideas here that are, of course, remarkable. For example, the amendment leading to more favourable regulatory control rules for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, where we must say that even cases of prohibition, i.e. exceptions, have been correctly listed. This is certainly welcome. I wouldn't fall for the mistake that it's easy to fall for as an opposition representative, we could ask why this wasn't the case before. We are very pleased that this will now take effect and enter into force. It is also true that the GVH will be able to participate or participate in the control of public procurement procedures only in theory so far. We believe that these two are certainly innovations in this proposal that the Socialist Party would support. However, in the context of the proceedings of the GVH, we cannot agree on the limitation of legal remedies in relation to data processing and access to the file. We also cannot agree that the rules governing the report on the basis of which the merger procedure is based, which are changed, but their real purpose and real reason cannot be found in the reasons for the amendment, so, of course, we cannot identify or support these provisions, precisely in the absence of justification. It should therefore be mentioned that it was not included in the legislative agenda of the spring session in order to amend this legislation or to present this proposal to the House. In fact, on the official website of the government, we did not find any evidence of social consultation that this proposal would come before the House in a social way. There are two things to conclude from this: firstly, that it was not like that, and secondly, that the GVH's proposals were submitted to us, because previously the Secretary of State responsible for European legal harmonisation had already indicated that such a package of proposals would be presented to the House. When dealing with the GVH regulatory system, it should be mentioned each time that there is a very large exception package, which, in turn, threatens the independence of the Hungarian Competition Authority, even its independence from the government, or fully disengages it, which has been in force since 2013, which in 2013 came before the House with a motion for individual representatives of Fidesz. [[22.30]] According to this, the Competition Act has been amended in such a way that, in the context of the merger of undertakings, if the government considers it to be of national strategic importance, it can simply prohibit the Economic Competition Authority from controlling the merger of economic mergers. We believe that this Competition Authority, however, is no longer the Competition Authority, it is a highly impaired competition authority, because there is a superior body, which is the Hungarian government, quite simply forbids it from acting on certain matters. Of course, this is when you wait and see what your practice will be like. I think that would not be the only law in the operation of the government where the sword of Damocles is placed above the head of an office or even the wider or narrower sections of society, but it will never be applied later. Unfortunately, that wasn't the rule, so I have to list a few. The GVH could not take action when buying Főgáz by MVM, nationalising savings cooperatives, nationalising Antenna Hungária last year, in the case of the acquisition of ownership in MKB bank. Welt 2000 Kft. in the case of the acquisition of his share of his business, the Knowledge of Generations, the acquisition of the shares of the Publisher and the Apáczai Publisher. We believe that, together with all these restrictions, even if there are innovative and welcome new amendments, new proposals in the proposal put before us, the clarification of this set of rules is not enough. The right of the government to restrict GVH in the procedure should be removed from this, at least, for the Socialist Party to be able to support it. Therefore, the Socialist Party will abstain from voting. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-08-345	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied. You have the floor.
u2015-06-08-346	Mr President, Dear House, As has been discussed on numerous occasions both during the general debate and during the Commission phase, it can be said that the bill could indeed be put in a pen somewhere, since it does not address fundamental structural problems. For example, we mentioned the rounds, where, by highlighting only the asphalt industry, it is typical for intermediary companies of 8-10 people to take away a large part of the revenue, the public procurement, the contractors, or not even to be paid out. So we're dealing with systemic problems that might be easier to deal with with with with the GVH. Yet, the legislator is trying to intervene on a sub-area and sub-component basis. It can also be seen that the previous practice was that, in the case of public procurement and in the event of suspicion, the court did not grant the blessing on the request for an ambush, simply because it did not feel clear about the mass of evidence. So many times the authorities could not intervene when there was absolutely no reason to do so. Therefore, although our amending proposal can only strengthen this system to a minimal extent, the proposal itself is that if any abuse is suspected, let us say in the case of public procurement, then the relevant minister should not only be entitled, but also be obliged to provide documentation on this; in fact, a series of investigations should be launched on a mandatory basis, which would make it impossible to detect abuses where appropriate. From here, it is very easy to get to the point that a package dealing with public procurement is needed according to our position, in Hungary, which, in essence, would automatically examine all priority investments, not on a case-by-case basis, not on the basis of entitlements, but on a mandatory basis. However, we also consider it necessary to introduce a price mechanism, to be more precise: a price monitoring system that is capable of examining whether or not, in the case of specific public procurements, there are real market developments or not, such price changes can be justified by market movements, market movements, or compromises, where appropriate, with the smell of collusion. Obviously, we cannot achieve a level in certain parts of the German language area over a year or two, where, in the event of the emergence of circumstantial debts or public procurement abuses, a public authority can stop the entire project. And they didn't stop much because of this, let's say, construction investments, but rather the mere threat of this sanction was sufficient to ensure that these abuses did not occur. This is also the only goal in Hungary, the gradual introduction of a rigid system that allows us to get to the point where the entire public procurement system becomes transparent and can be cleansed of abuse. And finally, we have to say, in the case of priority investments, we cannot settle for less than an automatic test phase for any investment formula that moves such a large amount of money. Therefore, we do not see any reason for these investigations to take place purely along the lines of entitlements. We therefore wish to impose clear obligations and trust that common sense will prevail. We also hope that Fidesz-KDNP will see that much tougher control is the right way, because only this can lead to purification in the Hungarian market. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-08-347	I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-06-08-348	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be stressed here that the vast majority of the proposal is a technical clarification and correction, but there are also some changes to the content, and some of them can be supported from a professional point of view. For example, the GVH may use a warning against small and medium-sized enterprises instead of imposing a fine in the event of an infringement in the first instance; or the question of the Minister's obligation to turn to the GVH. At the same time, there is a part of them that is of concern. This is the reduction of the appeal against an official decision on access to the file. So when, in connection with the previous amendments, the law imposed restrictions on merger control when the merger control of undertakings was affected by the amendments to limit whether or not the GVH was dealing with it, we believe it violates the uniform approach of the law and its applicability. The part of the proposal amending the rules on access to and access to personal data and protected data, including access to the file, in one case, where judicial review of the decision of the authorities concerning access to the file can now be requested, will be terminated in the future by the law currently intended to be adopted. The bill does not provide any justification for this, but merely refers to speeding up the procedure. We do not think that such legal instruments can be dealt with with on such simple grounds, and that the restriction of the uniform functioning of the Hungarian Competition Authority cannot be supported in the opinion of the MSZP at all. At the same time, there are amendments to the bill which, in most cases, specify and correct the technical nature of the legislation, which, in turn, improve the applicability of the GVH Act. Therefore, the two of us here result in a negative attitude of residence. What we do not see right is not acceptable because of what is positive in the debate. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-349	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi of Jobbik. [[22.40]]
u2015-06-08-350	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has repeatedly expressed and expressed its view that it is not just the laws that affect fair market behaviour, but it is at least as important and would at least facilitate fair market behaviour if the regulatory state itself acted fairly, consistently and predictablely, not as we can see in Hungary today, wherever we look at it. So not only must laws be passed, but these laws must also be observed, and when we talk about this, then, in general, the pro-government representatives are very upset, because they are doing everything they can to combat both fair competition and corruption, they say, perhaps nothing more can be done. This is why it is important to prove to you that you are really doing everything you can to combat corruption when you have to manifest yourself in action, but then we find that this is not always going to work for you, or I could say that you are almost never going to succeed. The key to Hungary's success is economic competitiveness, which, unfortunately, has not improved significantly in recent years, because this is mainly due to the fact that regulation is often variable, often unfollowable, and almost always inconsistent with implementation. It is one of the main factors that undermine competitiveness in addition to corruption. Why do I say that? Because it is incomprehensible to me that the bill submitted by Dániel Z. Carpathian, that if you really mean that you want to fight corruption, then why you cannot accept it. What's this about? One word that you are entitled to, yet this one word makes a very big difference. After all, if the Minister responsible for public procurement or the use of European Union funds - and we are also talking about a minister - detects or has good reason to believe that an infringement has occurred in connection with public procurement procedures or the use of European Union funds, then he should be obliged to pass on to the GVH any information available to him through the control of the contract amendment concerned, given that, if he is only entitled, you will immediately open up the possibility of corruption here, because if someone is entitled, he may consider it and a person in such a responsible position should not consider it. When he learns of any lawlessness, he should have the duty of a dog to do whatever it takes to eliminate this lawlessness, to reveal it, and to punish people who commit any irregularities. However, if he is only entitled to it, he will consider who has committed this irregularity, who has committed, let us say, these crimes, because he can consider if he is obliged to do so, he cannot consider it. That is why, in my opinion, it is totally unacceptable that you are talking about the fight against corruption constantly and in such small cases, because it is only a very, very small issue, and you are not willing to accept the opposition's intention to improve, nor are you willing to do anything about reducing the corruption threat in Hungary today in relation to any procedure. But this is your way of thinking, and when the political set or the power changes in Hungary, then, of course, this country will work differently. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-351	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State, the author, Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary.
u2015-06-08-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill before Parliament is to clarify and correct the rules governing the procedures of the Hungarian Competition Authority. As several have pointed out in the general debate on the bill, the amendments to be made to the Competition Act are primarily technical. Although the frequent amendment of the competition law was a criticism, it should be considered as a positive fact in this case that the practice of applying the competition law is under constant evaluation, and if there is a need to clarify the rules in the context of competition surveillance procedures, the government is ready to initiate this in order to facilitate the effectiveness of the procedures. During the debates, several opposition groups supported certain provisions of the bill, welcoming the possibility in future of applying in competition surveillance procedures the solution already followed in the course of official controls to warn small and medium-sized enterprises, instead of paying the fine, with the exceptions laid down in the first case of infringement. The provisions on the procedure of the Economic Competition Authority, which reflect the specificities of the agricultural sector, are transferred from the interbranch law to the Competition Act and the amended rules applicable from 1 September 2015 state more clearly that the specific provisions on agricultural products apply only if EU competition rules are not applied. The Jobbik Group proposed, proposed that a new paragraph be added to the Public Procurement Act in such a way that if the Minister responsible for public procurement or the use of EU funds detects an infringement in connection with procurement procedures or the use of EU funds, or has good reason to believe that it has happened, i.e. that the infringement has taken place, he should not simply be entitled to provide the Economic Competition Authority with any information available through the control of the public procurement contract or the modification of the contract, as specified in the proposal, but should be obliged to do so. This proposal cannot be supported, since the purpose of the proposed amendment to the Public Procurement Act is of a data protection nature, it aims to ensure that the Minister responsible for public procurement or the use of European Union funds is able to transfer the available data to the Competition Authority in accordance with the data protection provisions. It should be noted that the Public Procurement Act provides for action against infringers on the other hand, and that the Criminal Code qualifies the agreement restricting competition as a criminal offence in public procurement and concession proceedings. Three amendments have been proposed by the Economic Committee, one of which is a grammatical clarification. The other amendment, supported by the author, aims to ensure that the right of access to the file is not restricted either directly or indirectly, and that those who wish to exercise their right of access to the file must only be reimbursed for making the personal and protected data contained in the documents of the administrative procedure unknowable and for making a copy of the documents so extracted, if a copy of the document extracted by making the personal and protected data invisible is made available to the person exercising his right of access to the file. The third amendment proposed by the Economic Committee in relation to the amendment of the Food Chain and Official Surveillance Act on 5 May 2015 was intended to address the question of which authority is entitled to act in the event of a breach of the provisions in force before 5 May 2015. This amendment is not supported by the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee in line with the legislative requirements, but rather by the rapporteur, since it is appropriate that the provision should be included as a transitional provision in the Act on the Food Chain and Official Surveillance, not in the scope of the delegated provisions but as a transitional provision. Dear Parliament, The bill serves the interests of citizens and companies that comply with competition law, clarifying the rules on the procedures of the Hungarian Competition Authority, promoting the effectiveness of competition law action and the protection of fair competition. I therefore recommend that the bill be adopted, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-08-353	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of accelerating the implementation of transport infrastructure investments that are of major importance for the national economy are now followed by a debate on the summary amendment proposal. [[22.50]] The submission is T/4453. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4453/8. and T/4453/9. was given to them. The Commission report by the Committee on Sustainable Development, which closed the detailed debate, is T/4453/7. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4453/11. and the summary report is T/4453/12. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later address the description of the minority opinion expressed in the committee. I'll ask the members of the committee present if anyone wants to give the minority opinion. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. So first I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-08-354	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is T/4453 on 5 June. The Committee discussed a bill amending certain laws in the context of speeding up the implementation of transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy and presented 20 amendments and a summary report summing up 20 yes, 5 non-voting and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains 31 of the 36 points proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the remaining 5 points were presented in the revised version of the Legislative Committee. Among the points of the amending proposal, I would like to point out that the legislation installs expropriation lawsuits for priority transport infrastructure investments to administrative and labour courts for a specific purpose in order to facilitate uniform application of the law. In view of the fact that regional administrative colleges were set up to contribute to the professional support of the case-law in the administrative field, the proposal therefore distributes matters not between three administrative and labour courts but according to the competence of the regional administrative colleges. In addition to professional aspects, it can be a more ideal solution for the arrival of a case, as it provides a more even burden on the court. The government continues to place great emphasis on sport investment, development in various sports. The aim of the proposal before us is to improve the quality of sport and leisure services, to create services and needs already defined at the same time, and to provide complex services of international quality, consistent with the preservation of the health of citizens and the promotion of the quality of family leisure. In line with this, the amending proposal also lays down as a guarantee rule that expropriation for public interest purposes in the framework of sport infrastructure development is possible if specific legislation provides for the implementation of individually defined sports and leisure development. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee clarifies the authority which provides for the conditions for the entry into force of the building permit and the water permit, and clarifies the procedure in the event that the building permit or the water permit does not comply with the environmental permit. Overall, the bill will help to enhance the country's competitiveness by providing for provisions to accelerate the implementation of investments that are of major national importance. I therefore ask with respect that you support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-08-355	I ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. László Tasó, if you would like to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. At the end? All right. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. I would like to announce that the Committee on Sustainable Development, which is linked to the debate, has withdrawn its rapporteur, who has previously been appointed, and that, since I do not see Mr Sallai R. Benedek, the minority opinion will not be presented now either. Now we're going to hear from the representatives. First, I give the floor to István Happy, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-06-08-356	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The legislative committee discussed the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill before us. János Volner originally submitted three amendments to the proposal, of which two were rejected by the Economic Committee and one accepted. Pál Völner's amendment was supported by the Committee. This amending proposal will help accelerate investment in large investments, including transport infrastructure, by facilitating contracting and capacity building. The amendment of the public price and the possibility of involving a museum of county scope in its collection circle serve to increase the capacity required for acceleration as well as to increase the capacity required by Article 23/F. § 1 in order to increase the capacity of archaeological excavations prior to large investments. In some counties, only museums involved in their collection area, currently only urban museums, allow quick exploration, which alone cannot meet accreditation criteria, but can expand the capacities of accredited institutions. It is therefore necessary to extend the range of accessible museums to museums with county scope in collection circles that are not accredited. The Committee made further changes to the Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate. A 6/I. § 2 makes it clear in paragraph 2 that the deadline for the transmission of the application and its annexes to the administrative authorities is calculated from the receipt of the application. According to point 19, whereas, on the basis of the rules in force, only on request, the advice is sent to the parties, while, for the priority investments, the bill is adopted on the basis of Article 37. It shall be carried out on its own initiative pursuant to Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Given that there is no need to distinguish between cases from a procedural point of view, the majority of expropriations are due to an investment of major importance, and therefore the proposal in point 19 makes the new procedural rule introduced by the bill general, which, in addition to speeding up, also facilitates the exercise of the parties' procedural rights. Point 23 is, on the one hand, a language-placed proposal. On the other hand, the bill is 41. §2 of the Act, with the aim of bringing to certain administrative and labour courts expropriation lawsuits for investment in transport infrastructure of major importance, in order to facilitate uniform application of the law, speed up procedures, focus on these designated courts in the next few years on matters covered by the bill. In view of the fact that regional administrative colleges have been set up to contribute to the professional support of the case-law in the administrative field, this otherwise well-functioning institution should also be used in the groups of cases concerned by the bill. The proposal therefore distributes cases not between three administrative and labour courts, but according to the competence of regional administrative colleges, to the courts operating the college. In addition to professional aspects, this could be a more ideal solution for the arrival of a case, providing a more even burden on the court body. Last Friday, the Legislative Committee made further proposals for amendments, which, in addition to the minor changes in the legal technology of the original Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate, set out the following substantive proposals. First, on the basis of the TAB's amendment, points 2, 3, 8, 10, 12, 13, 15, 37, 38 are deleted from the provisions of the bill and the related rules. The proposed amendment makes it clear which authority has a building permit and a water permit... - to become effective or to clarify the procedure in the event that the building permit or the water permit does not comply with the environmental permit. [[23.00]] In paragraph 1 of this Article, it is clarified that the deadline for the transmission of the application and its annexes to the administrative authorities is calculated from the date of receipt of the application. According to point 19, whereas, on the basis of the rules in force, only on request, the advice is sent to the parties, while, for the priority investments, the bill is adopted on the basis of Article 37. It shall be carried out on its own initiative pursuant to Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Given that there is no need to distinguish between cases from a procedural point of view, the majority of expropriations are due to an investment of major importance, and therefore the proposal in point 19 makes the new procedural rule introduced by the bill general, which, in addition to speeding up, also facilitates the exercise of the parties' procedural rights. Point 23 is, on the one hand, a language-placed proposal. On the other hand, the bill is 41. §2 of the Act, with the aim of bringing to certain administrative and labour courts expropriation lawsuits for investment in transport infrastructure of major importance, in order to facilitate uniform application of the law, speed up procedures, focus on these designated courts in the next few years on matters covered by the bill. In view of the fact that regional administrative colleges have been set up to contribute to the professional support of the case-law in the administrative field, this otherwise well-functioning institution should also be used in the groups of cases concerned by the bill. The proposal therefore distributes cases not between three administrative and labour courts, but according to the competence of regional administrative colleges, to the courts operating the college. In addition to professional aspects, this could be a more ideal solution for the arrival of a case, providing a more even burden on the court body. Last Friday, the Legislative Committee made further proposals for amendments, which, in addition to the minor changes in the legal technology of the original Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate, set out the following substantive proposals. First, on the basis of the TAB's amendment, points 2, 3, 8, 10, 12, 13, 15, 37, 38 are deleted from the provisions of the bill and the related rules. The proposed amendment makes it clear which authority has a building permit and a water permit... - to become effective or to clarify the procedure in the event that the building permit or the water permit does not comply with the environmental permit.(23.00) In addition, the proposal also includes the necessary legislative drafting amendments due to text-focusing and the provisions to be deleted. In addition, the amending proposal proposes to add a new paragraph to the bill. The amendment of the public price and the possibility of involving a museum of county scope in its collection circle serve to increase the capacity required for acceleration, as does the 23/G. § 1 in order to increase the capacity of archaeological excavations prior to large investments. In some counties, only museums involved in their collection area - currently only urban museums - allow quick exploration, which alone cannot meet accreditation criteria, but can expand the capacity of accredited institutions. It is therefore necessary to extend the range of accessible museums to non-accreditable museums with county scope in their collection area. In the light of the above, I would like to ask you to support the amendment in the context of the Commission's report, and our group will certainly support it, and we believe that this will finally speed up investment in Hungary, and what has been going on in six to eight years is expected to take place in 2.5 months. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-357	I give the floor to István Józsa, representative of the MSZP.
u2015-06-08-358	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a grand legislative undertaking, which is presented by the Ministry of National Development, and it is also a talkative number that 36 amendments have been tabled and some 31 of them have been added to the summary. So it can be seen that the House has been able to deal with this in substance. I am sure it is important for the House to adopt laws to speed up the implementation of transport infrastructure investments that are of major importance for the national economy. In the past, there was an approach that, if we were to think back on the Csemegi Code - it was for the post-compromise period, railway construction was the one that played a pioneering role in the construction of transport infrastructure, and they were actually making progress with it. I am sure that legal regulation can also provide many lessons. From the point of view, it is a bit ambivalent that, on the one hand, I am very much in favour of it, and on the other, there is a legal opportunity to speed up transport infrastructure, especially road construction and the construction of motorways. Here, for example, is the northern branch of the M0, which I must acknowledge self-critically that we could not manage, even though it would have been nice to close the M0 from the north, perhaps such legislation would have helped. At the same time, it makes me doubt that in your practice there is not only acceleration, but also slowing down when you think of the calvary of the M4 that it has been very accelerated for a while, and then suddenly, poof, stop, slow down. So this shows that it is not only the legislation that depends on when, at what time, a construction process can be implemented. There are other examples in Europe, for example, Slovenians have built their motorway network by building sections in 4-5-6 places at the same time, the preparation of which each region was happy, because there has been a change, and in 15-20 years the motorway network has been completed for the whole country. They did not use such legal accelerant techniques, but the fact that the legislative amendment package clarifies what the necessary contribution is in the text of the law, that the municipality may provide the builder with such additional investment as a local road operator or owner, should be included in the road construction permit procedure, and the municipality must make a declaration in that capacity. It is also good that it binds the municipality to certain sanctions as to the period during which the declaration should be made, how the content of the municipal declaration is considered in the building permit procedure. So it seems that the experience of the last 20 years, where such a preparation process could be found, has been studied in substance. I don't think anyone would dare swear that this is all going to work without a mistake, because, as the English say, the test of pudding is eating, you can't try to taste it or not. So it may be possible to start, and if you set good goals in road construction, which, of course, has been put off for five years, that could be a good thing. Which is a little bit, let's say, worrying about your decision-making mechanism over the last half decade, that this law lays down specific provisions other than the general rules in both the administrative authority and the judicial review phase of the procedure. These different rules may already provide a basis for some concern. I'm not sure it's gonna happen, because we may be able to do this right, but we've already experienced strange things from you in these unique solutions. What has also been included here in the amendments, and I am pleased that the Legislative Committee and the majority group have welcomed Mr Volner's amendment in support of the fact that the involvement of the county museums will be extended, because indeed, the bottlenecks are the completion of certain archaeological activities, and this bill opens up the possibility of involving non-accredited institutions. Of course, what role this can play, and I believe that accredited organisations cannot yet be deprived of it. Archaeological exploration is divided into two parts. The first is the complete exploration provided for in the permit, the second is the subsequent stage; if the first stage has already been discovered, no exploration can be carried out there at a later stage; furthermore, it provides for a special accelerated procedure which may be decided by the Minister for Cultural Heritage and may be ordered to explore even if it is not possible to preserve the discovered finding without hindering its implementation. It's interesting to have this 8-day Ministerial Exploration Decision that you're required to do. Knowing the Minister's apparatus, I do not know which minister can make such a decision in eight days, but we hope that this mechanism will develop. Once again, the proposal puts archaeologists in the background of large investment, on the ground that investment in transport infrastructure needs to be accelerated. Taking into account the fact that there is a much wider archaeological capacity to be activated here compared to those accredited to date, it may be possible, in the case of good organization, that the exploration of archaeological heritage does not suffer immeasurable damage, there is no permanent concealment of something that can be valuable. This possibility, if understood correctly, is provided by the law, that if there is hope from certain discoveries that there are more serious memories there, then even at the cost of changing the schedule, they will be explored. [[23.10]] So, as a member of the opposition, I can't say that it's gonna be good, but I'm gonna say go for it. [[Defiance.]] Thank you.
u2015-06-08-359	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2015-06-08-360	Mr President, Dear House, We appreciate the minimal shift in hearing at least part of some opposition proposals, amendments and improvements. However, I would encourage the full adoption of not only all of János Volner's amendments, but also a slightly different attitude, for example, in relation to archaeologists, we can remember Obuda, the III. from the district, the capital, too, to a story in recent years where we had to be very supportive of the work of archaeologists in order to prevent a huge investment from actually being created or to protect a nature conservation area, a public area that the capital or other owner, in any case, can make much more efficient use of, or even keep in its original form. The fact is that there is a clear need in the shadow of the M4 to speed up certain forms of investment. We need to link this whole thing to the previous agenda, because parliamentary control itself would perhaps be the best way for similar investments to run with proper control and a proper view of all kinds of slowing down barriers, without obstacles, brakes and counterweights. However, what we see in this overall proposal is that Parliament's powers of control are weakening, and moving towards some kind of regulation governance in many cases, acceleration is accompanied by the fact that it is our control option, our insight, or our view that it is going to end in its entirety. Therefore, we can also say that the new forms of public authority already mentioned in the previous agenda may, where appropriate, be a construction authority capable of intervening immediately in the event of abuse, and, where appropriate, in the sanctioning system, it should be possible to stop a project for no reason of slowing down, but also if, let us say, payments are not made to the detriment of Hungarian small entrepreneurs or Hungarian contractors. But the threat of this in itself in a fair market economy is often enough to prevent many forms of abuse. We must also say that we are not just thinking about public procurement when we say that for certain priority investments automatic control systems should be introduced. We are not just thinking of public procurement when we say that, when examining different price mechanisms, we should automatically look at whether there are price changes or, let's say, real market movements, real market processes or, where appropriate, the suspicion of collusion. My position is that if we can filter out these elements that are leaning towards corruption, it will in itself be able to accelerate all types of investment, and we can finally get there - after decades of omissions - so that these truly very important and truly high-priority investments can start using the appropriate control systems, so that they can be carried out. This may also be beneficial for the Fidesz-KDNP government in that it does not burn its name to the fact that the complete halting of various priority investments took place during its period. Therefore, I would like to emphasise once again that I encourage the full and not only partial inclusion of our amending proposals in order to create a mandatory control system. This will be in the long term, which can indeed and substantially accelerate the process of carrying out these priority investments. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-361	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-08-362	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say very briefly. Congressman Hadházy has already mentioned that expropriation can happen even if, I quote, it is possible, in the framework of expropriation, the development of sports infrastructure, in order to establish, expand and develop sport and related ancillary facilities, if there is a specific law on the implementation of individually defined sports and leisure infrastructure development. Here's the key word for a separate law. At first, one might think that, of course, there may be infrastructure improvements in the field of sport where there is full cooperation and very serious things need to be done. For example, the 2017 water world, where we have a very short period of time and really have to meet those obligations. But then, as the Secretary of State said, no, no, he knows that's not what this is about, and I really had to realize that it wasn't a separate law, because there we collected all the laws needed to organize the water vb and speed up construction. You have brought it before this House, and here almost entirely the opposition benches have supported this law, so that is not the case. Then you have a minor concern. But why would it come up? Because, like I said, this separate law is the key word. Usually, in a normally functioning democracy and a normally functioning country, separate laws are not made on the basis of individual interests. Then you will consider whether, over the last five years, you have made laws, separate laws, which have been brought before and adopted by this House for persons or for the sake of some kind of company or for any other reason, unfortunately, you must find out that, yes, you have not submitted such a law to this House. In order to mention just one thing, to be connected to sport, the current president of the MOB could sit here in Parliament due to a separate law, because then you made a separate law for him and then made a lot of other laws. In a world where you have introduced a whole new concept over the past five years, this is the concept of sport corruption, where you have introduced almost all the professional sports associations, the leaders of larger associations and everywhere the Fidesz politicians, the fidesz friends, the fidesz vassals, and this is what you have done by openly or not openly, but you have felt with these associations or professional sports associations that it will be good for you, then you may be able to obtain money if you are sitting in some sort of fidesz politician or his acquaintances and friends, let us say, in the leadership, then this is going towards corruption, because it is also a type of corruption. Then it occurs to you to wonder why this clause had to be added here, whether there might be areas, perhaps even in the territory of Budapest, which belong to some kind of association, and there this association wants to make a very valuable development. I don't know, maybe a more than 100-year-old disbanded Budapest association that belongs to someone now might be thinking about this. The truth is that such laws, such wordings, will never be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, as they give us the opportunity for loopholes, especially in a world such as the world you have developed in this country over the past five years. So in such cases as the organisation of the 2017 World Championship, as long as this is intended to be done normally, in a non-corruption and indeed in the interest of the nation, Jobbik Hungary Movement supports you 100%, as it is a common interest. We will continue to adopt and help to organise as successful as possible one of the world's largest sporting events in Budapest and Hungary, but we do not want to give our names to a provision that gives us the opportunity to backdoors and corruption. We have not yet wished to give our names, and we will not continue to do so for the remaining three years, while you govern, and as long as you can determine these laws, which will be brought before this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-363	I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to comment on the debate as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. But I'm gonna close the debate first, because I can see that there's no further application. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-06-08-364	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for your comments. I would like to start by saying that I have had the opportunity to speak to fellow Members on several occasions over the past few years, regardless of the parliamentary faction, and I felt that, in addition to saying the mandatory practice and the mandatory text defined by the Party, they support it, but by chance they are interested in making all investments in the development of transport in Hungary as quickly as possible. [[23.20]] I thought, by the way, to take it out of what you said, regardless of the fact that we've heard the sentences that everyone's been saying lately for their own purposes. It is important to know that our bill concerning 13 laws opens a new world for investment in transport, and I dare say that we have touched regulations such as those referred to by the speakers, to which many wanted to touch, but either they did not have the courage, or they did not have the opportunity. But this category of priority issues, we know that it has always been a category of government, it has never been possible for Parliament, always for executive power. Priority cases for the 2006 LIII. By the way, the last time the Hungarian Parliament ruled, and the government carried out its task accordingly. In this case, it is very clear that we would have liked to have made the existing and still existing procedures shorter, which hindered further improvement in competitiveness and the catching up of areas. I think that if Parliament's parties think about it, then they will surely agree that there is an area and there is a settlement in Hungary that can no longer wait if it does not receive immediate assistance from EU funds, from the national budget, its break-off or decay cannot be reversed. I therefore think that the most important thing is that Parliament adopts this bill tomorrow, and then we have time for it, and we will have to look at it and improve where it is needed. No one claimed that we had the best solution right away and that we could do the best in the world of regulation, but we say that we are doing it with the best intentions. I also understand if someone tries to see someone else or sees our efforts differently. Nevertheless, I say that all of us, members of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, who are likely to support the adoption of the proposal tomorrow, are guided by the best intentions. One thing is certain, there were concerns that may not have been well founded. In any case, I would like to refer to archaeology, because it has been said that we are bringing in archaeologists who may not be professionals. So one thing is certain that it must be made clear to everyone that in Hungary I see no difference between man and man, and here in Parliament, that someone is more careful about our values, and the other is less. I think that it is in the interests of all Hungarians to preserve our archaeological treasures, to contribute to exploration as far as possible, and to guarantee that the treasures revealed will actually be used and that they will remain valuable forever. So to think or suggest that it may be possible to involve a sub-contractor who is not a professional, a flawed suggestion. With regard to expropriation, it should be noted that only there is a change in court rules, and there is no reference elsewhere. Indeed, we have special rules in the area of administration. What is important, however, is that the minister, who is given the opportunity to intervene immediately in the field of archaeology, is the highest decision-making person who may otherwise have the opportunity to do so. We do not believe that archaeological work will be damaged or damaged, and that every treasure that is revealed will be preserved and that we can start working in time. In the debate there were interesting manifestations from LMP, MSZP, Jobbik. I'm more of ascribed to the fact that in some way they wanted to distinguish themselves from the intention that guided us. Nevertheless, I think that you will support it quietly, quietly, on your own. I also hope that tomorrow you will change your mind and support the adoption of this proposal because I do not think it is in anyone's interest not to have one investment, for which many have already done a lot and lobbyed, or I do not think that anyone is interested in not being able to call down as many EU funds as possible, all that we have. What is important, it should be pointed out that the general average of 6.5 years does not start from 2010 but works in accordance with the rules in force in 2007. This is a long enough process; unfortunately also because it did not allow previous regulation to start procedures in parallel. The biggest and most important step is to dare to take action in the regulation that the administrative procedures can start at the same time and can end at the same time and run their own course in parallel. What we are trying to bring together in advance, and in the bill, we hope and then accept it, makes it possible for all the parties involved to sit down, discuss and agree on their position at the beginning of the first round, at a tracked facility, and take steps at the first moment. We have also tried to carefully examine and, naturally, to ensure that local government licenses are not undermined. There's no need to forget that a municipal decree can only be made by the municipal body, so no one else can. Even if we draw attention to it and try to push for its adoption or the amendment of the regulation, only the decision-making body can do so, so no one else can make provision for it. Overall, with regard to the proposals, it should be noted that there was little substantive proposal and intention to change, a large percentage of which were of a technical nature. One clarification: although it is true that we supported a motion by Mr János Volner, but not about archaeology, we supported another; however, it is true, it was a good proposal and we supported it. I dare continue to say that, if we have the opportunity, we will support sensible proposals that will help the case to be implemented and effective. Dear Parliament, Dear Presents, I thank the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Sustainable Development and the Legislative Committee for their work, their comments and for their contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-365	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the free municipal ownership of certain state-owned assets to carry out the tasks of county libraries and county-wide urban museums follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Lajos Kósa, János Halász, István Horváth, Balázs Simon Róbert, Gyula Vantara's own motion T/2379. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Culture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2379/4. and T/2379/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2379/7. and the summary report is T/2379/8. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-08-366	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 4 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal ownership of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the one-point amendment proposal of the Committee on Culture and the legislative committee's own nine points amendment, adopted by our committee by 22 votes in favour, four against and two abstentions. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that movable and immovable property for the task of county-wide urban museums and county libraries is owned by the maintenance authorities requiring the transfer of property, thereby facilitating the more efficient performance of the mandatory task. The former county maintainer received control and maintenance through the county institution-keeping centre for a transitional period, and now the county-righted cities and county-based settlements also maintain libraries and museums. The present motion settles not only the maintenance obligations, but also the maintenance assets, so that the municipality of the county-righted cities can obtain property. In conclusion, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 23 votes to four, with two abstentions. I call on this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-367	Dear Parliament, I will now ask the rapporteur if he wishes to speak at the beginning of the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon.
u2015-06-08-368	Thank you very much for the floor. In view of the progress of time, I am trying to be relatively brief, even because the debate has already been held here in Parliament and in the Committee on Culture. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative committee's summary amendment, as my fellow Members have read, is essentially text-focused, technical and linguistic. [[23.30]] These amendments did not substantially change the bill. The county libraries and museums listed in the Annex to the Act will be owned free of charge by the maintenance municipalities. It is important to note that two institutions have been removed from the annex to the bill. One of them is the Békés County Archives of the Hungarian National Archives, which represents the property number 3905/2 in the city of Békés, as well as the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Archives of the Hungarian National Archives, which represents property number 6176/3/G/1 in Nyíregyháza. The archives use this property together with the library and the local museum, so there is no reason to give these two properties into municipal ownership. In the press, Fidesz has seen several times over the past period that the rules of two-thirds of the bill are being weeded out by Fidesz. In this case, I would like to deny this in any case, and I must also note that in the course of the corrections, we have reviewed the sections and paragraphs covered by the two-thirds vote, and the summarised amendment reflects in what respect we have found the correction to be justified. Overall, in the case of two more paragraphs, we have seen the justification for saying two-thirds because this is in line with the responsibility for the fate of state property. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the good owners of these institutions, with the decision, will open up the possibility of developing, modernising the buildings according to the professional needs of the institutions, and that the municipalities will also have access to the resources needed to do so. I call for the support of all parliamentary groups and fellow Members in order to achieve this goal. I propose to accept the amendment of the law, the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-369	I'm asking you if you'd like to comment from the government, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2015-06-08-370	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, those who have been able to follow the debate over the last few months and weeks have been able to see that opinions against the law with shades of differences and sometimes medium or higher standards of preparedness have also appeared, but the intention of the author is clear, which the government has been able to support all along, that in the spirit of cultural decentralisation, these buildings with certain county library tasks and museum tasks with county scope are good if, after the delegation of the maintenance right, they are now transferred to those who use these properties. So, indeed, looking at the 19 counties, there is a very significant real estate register, a list of real estate in the Annex to the Act, an annex to the amendment that goes to the municipalities and municipalities of cities with county rights. I think that the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate has also benefited from the wording of the amendment, as well as the amendment, which was published in the Legislative Committee, which also lays down the fundamental rules. We are confident that the Parliament can support the government's support for the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-08-371	Dear Parliament, The designated Cultural Committee did not submit a rapporteur, so now the representatives will be able to comment. I will ask Mr Robert Balázs Simon if he wishes to comment again. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-372	Thank you very much. I just wanted to let you know, but politely, I actually told you everything. If there's a debate or a debate, I'd be very happy to attend. That's all I want right now. Thank you.
u2015-06-08-373	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2015-06-08-374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, It has been almost six months since the legislative proposal was tabled, until we reached today's summary debate. If you're looking at the usual pace of the law factory, it's certainly unusual. Overall, the proposal before us is positive, since it would improve a complicated situation, making it simpler. At present, there is a three-player solution in the daily functioning of cultural institutions, whereby the State is the owner, the institutions are the trustees, and the municipalities are the maintainers. The purpose of the amendment is to give the municipalities which maintain the county museums and libraries ownership of the real estate assets for the maintenance. The summarised amendment tabled to the proposal would not change that. In addition to the correct language adjustments, it records compliance with the law-processing procedures and the fundamentality of the transfer of assets. In recent years, the situation of libraries and museums has changed a lot, causing serious problems. We hope that these issues will finally be resolved with satisfaction, since it is important that these institutions are able to operate in a predictable and secure environment. However, the transfer of assets alone will not be enough. We will continue to achieve no change without the substantial involvement of additional resources. The transfer of assets is in vain, if they are exhibited, but even if they are professionally placed, there are serious financial difficulties. How successful can the operation of the local cultural institution system be in the current system of local government with a lack of resources anyway? We recognise that funds have recently been opened for specific local cultural policy purposes, and we are talking about one or two billion forints. Unfortunately, this does not replace previous withdrawals. Compared to the weakened municipal system, these investments and subsidies are of a lower magnitude. Dear House, The May Other of Politics is based on the need to boost local cultural life. We always say that at present millions of people in Hungary do not have access to basic cultural goods. In particular, half the country cannot participate in cultural value creation, even though this is equally important. And unfortunately, it is in vain that Mr. Secretary of State for Culture has been saying these goals recently, if there is no substantial source for this. On the other hand, the government's entire economic and social policy goes against all of this. The debauchery of education, the delivery of the Hungarian labour force to multinational companies or buddy oligarchs, and the force of the assembly country point in the opposite direction. The small amount that has been invested recently in the development of libraries cannot be a truly effective cultural investment. According to LMP, libraries and museums could indeed play an important role in boosting local cultural life, but this would require a completely different government vision. Half-solutions and incompatible cultural policy rhetoric with government steps will not bring any meaningful results. We support the bill because it is important to transfer and return assets to the local level, but we also see that we can take only a small step forward. Think about it. Students of the assembly country who are already 16 years old, or who will be sent to vocational schools instead of high schools, what are the chances of mass cultural institutions, libraries, museums? What are their chances of participating in cultural value creation? Let's do a thought experiment. Consider that from tomorrow, the L. Simon László or Péter Hoppál cultural policy does not support cultural investments in the hundred billion-dollar megalomania, primarily such as the museum district or the Buda Castle, which will be accessible only to a narrow layer, but focuses on those half of the country who really have no cultural value. Let us consider that this will really be the important thing for all parts of Hungary, all settlements, to have cultural programs and cultural spaces built, where everyone can learn past and contemporary artistic values in a creative, creative process, and even participate in the building of the culture of the present and the future. Unfortunately, such an education policy, such a social policy, such an economic policy, will hardly be worth anything, unfortunately. As I have said, the proposal will be supported by the May Other Politics, and decentralisation, the principle of subsidiarity, will certainly justify this. Thank you for your attention. [[23.40]]
u2015-06-08-375	I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-06-08-376	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The right-wing government asks us for support for an acceptable law by a two-thirds majority, since it does not have a two-thirds majority. The Orbán government wishes to correct its own mistake, as the proposal is about the transfer of movable property to the municipalities after the real estate of libraries and museums. The current situation is inoperative. In this current model, the state, the municipality and the institutional trustee jointly influence the fate of museums and libraries. This is not only a complex design for sound, but it is also in practice, as it is written in the reasoning of the proposal, so it will be very complicated to negotiate, so it is very difficult to develop, apply and even operate. It is therefore difficult to argue that the amendment is indeed necessary. This is true even if opposition representatives would like the government to acknowledge its own mistake at least once. However, it is worth mentioning the wider environment for a few words. In Hungary, a nationalisation wave has been sweeping through Hungary since 2010, and schools and hospitals have become state-owned. National politics has become mindless centralization, everything is overruled, and the top institutions are led by fidesz politicians or Fidesz close-up people. This is modern feudalism, in which a faithful person's consent is now required for a child to enter class B from grade A of primary school. Funny. It soon became clear that this model was inoperative. The proper instrument for exercising political control is the pyramid structure of the state, hardly building a normal country. If the party of the government can see that, since the Secretary of State himself is now talking about decentralisation, it is a great thing, but then it would also be worth creating the possibility of re-nationalising schools. Please think about it if you are beginning to become enlightened in the last few weeks or months; at least the schools that the municipality wants to maintain itself. Centralization, nationalization, control over everything has failed. Just as the model of Fidesz presenting laws as a motion for individual representatives without asking people has failed. There is no need for me to describe the financial problems of an average county library or museum, how the senior academics are forced to carry out their duties as roomkeepers, how miserable conditions prevail in the sector. So if this government asks for support for a two-thirds law, it is worth offering something to society. For example, the fact that he is in real consultation with the relevant actors. It is up to the government to listen to the problems of museums, directories, staff, and not to present the proposal as an individual motion. The country could profit a lot from this practice. You know, we should now pursue a policy of attention rather than a policy of power. At least that's what the Prime Minister said. Dear Parliament, Thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-08-377	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi of Jobbik.
u2015-06-08-378	Mr President, I promise, just briefly, I just want to talk about one thing. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and my fellow Member, István Apáti, have tabled an amendment which you have not adopted; otherwise, we will ask for a separate vote. This amendment is linked to what István Ikotity also said, that it is possible to hand over these real estates, and we also understand the purpose of handing over these real estates to facilitate the start-ups and the like, but it is a question of what resources are available to municipalities. That is why it would have been appropriate for you to hand over these properties together with the burden, and that is why we have tabled an amending proposal to hand over the properties without any lawsuit, burden or need. It would also help them to apply, wouldn't it, say, municipalities, or museums and county libraries? So I would ask you either to answer why this amendment cannot be adopted, or, if you are still open to it, asked for a separate vote, then anything could be changed. It was clear, in our view, that, with regard to the real estate to be transferred, the situation is not fair that the receiving municipalities, together with the real estate, will also inherit their burdens, and, as the state has taken over the debts of the local authorities, we believe that it would also be possible for them to bear these burdens in terms of the real estate to be transferred, thus facilitating the operation of both the municipalities and museums and libraries, and, as I say, in order to really promote the objective that you have set out for them to be able to start more easily on the tenders. I look forward to your possible reply to this, Mr State Secretary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-379	I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-06-08-380	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really feel destined to speak to this agenda; unless I refer to so many ties that my father, God rest his soul, was a teacher of mathematics and physics, had a very good friendship with Professor Gyula László, who was researching Hungarian memories in Hungary, digging there at my hometown, next to Csongrád, in Felgyő, year after year, and I would not have many personal acquaintances in the museum area who have not lived this past quarter or half a decade as a favorable or successful period in the life of museums. I do not want to achieve cheap success here in rhetoric when I say that we should not have swept off the opposition's arguments with such a big breast that the people have already given an opinion, we are here with a two-thirds majority. We know that many times we have heard that there is no need to argue here, so the people know who they have chosen, otherwise they would not have received two-thirds of the votes. So I don't want to say this; just as it wasn't allowed to swear in the military either, so we said that this should not happen, but on an agenda like this, when it comes to making a significant correction, improving the operational potential of institutions that have previously become difficult to function, or - I don't want to exaggerate - from the regulatory side, I would very much ask you here on the majority side - although you are currently in a minority, perhaps three with the State Secretary - to think about the etymology of legislation and regulation, how, by hearing what opinions, it would be necessary to regulate such a sensitive area that significantly affects the culture of the nation, such as museums, libraries, cultural institutions. And if you are really as enthusiastic about national commitment as it is used in all their expressions - for example, what makes the tobacco store national, I think it is more of a discredit than a meaningful treatment of this word - then at least in these areas you are trying to call the profession together, trying to convene opposition representatives on this issue. So, as your Prime Minister's master tried to be self-critical in his last speech, you are trying to find areas where you can be self-critical without losing your face, perhaps even correct to the joy of those involved. And if these corrections are put on the agenda, they should not be involved in the method they have made, but rather in the way that we suggested at the time, to talk to the stakeholders, not condescendingly, to invite three, choosing on the basis of some aspect, but to have a substantive debate on a broad scale, in parliamentary committees. So pretend to be a cultural being committed to what you do. Thank you, Mr. President. [[23.50]]
u2015-06-08-381	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, the debate will be closed and I will give the rapporteur, Mr Robert Balázs, the opportunity to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-08-382	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to answer briefly. I thank Mr István Ikotity for his thoughts, and I actually appreciate that they will support the bill. Thank you very much for that. I also thank the representatives of the Socialist Party for their thoughts. This is where István Józsa suggested that the profession should be convened. This has happened in this case. In fact, it was started by the municipalities starting this demand towards the County City Association, and then there was a detailed consultation, and even in the last months, because the corrections that were included in the law, which I read out that the two properties will not be transferred, since they perform various functions, are the result of this reconciliation. And Mr Szilágyi, that he was free of charge: to be honest, even I liked this idea when he raised it for the first time, but it cannot be done in practice, because, for example, if there is a limit on height on a property or a right to land, it will also be deleted. It is therefore impossible to do so in practice, and it has therefore not been accepted. There was no other reason, so it's not political, it's basically professional. Thank you for the positive comments and I trust that the law will be adopted tomorrow. I would like to stress that this was basically initiated by the municipalities, which the state and the State Secretariat have fully supported, and in this sense a single ownership structure is being developed in this area. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State and his colleagues, for your work, the professional work you have done in preparing the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-08-383	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For the first time in the speech after the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied:. Despite the impressive promises, the development of the Hungarian horse industry will not take place in 2016. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-384	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I am very sorry that on the part of the government, as I see it, no one will be able to answer the questions, because I think it would be appropriate, because it is no longer the first time that I have raised this problem. It is about the fact that in 2012, the Kincsem National Horse Programme was adopted by the government, and it may have seemed that after decades of neglect, this sector, perhaps a little attention, was given to this sector, since it was virtually zero for previous governments. I now speak as a riding industry because of this, of course, includes sport, breeding, education, recreation, hobbies, tourism, racing and some other sectors. It is special and it cannot be fully integrated into the field of agriculture because it is not food production, but it is not primarily the meat of the animal, it is not the ability to produce food, but it is all right. We have to assume that we consider ourselves a riding nation, we are very proud of our riding traditions, we are doing this very well, but unfortunately the practice is much sadder than that. We are saying that today, in almost every neighbouring country, there is a greater chance that a young man will learn to ride, that he will have a greater chance of meeting the animal than in our country, where he should have all the traditions and cultural backgrounds. This is why we considered it important and forward-looking when, in 2012, this particular Kincsem National Horseman Programme, which was already mentioned, was adopted at the government meeting. By the way, this programme was developed by the profession at the request of the government under the supervision of the portfolio, and I must say that all sectors involved in the development of this programme have given me an account that they have taken their views seriously, there have been constructive, detailed discussions, where it has been reflected to them that at last maybe not only political horse-zung will be important when preparing such a strategy, but the word of the profession can really be decisive. And as I said, this has happened, so we have no problem with the program itself. This was also confirmed by the Jobbik for Hungary Movement that, although they were not brave enough to bring this strategy to Parliament, I resubmited it to the Agriculture Committee in the form of a resolution proposal at the beginning of this year, asking the commission to allow it to come to Parliament and to discuss this programme at last. I thought this was important because I was approached from a wide range of sectors in the profession, with the adoption of this programme in 2012, but no progress has been made in practice, except for some of the basic blocks. At that time, you did not allow your own programme to continue, so we could not discuss the delays in this House. I asked the representatives of the sectors to sit down at a table, to listen to each other, to tell us what the biggest shortcomings are, what the biggest problems are. They were happy to do so, they were present from all sectors at this meeting, so we summarized the problems and put them on the government table. Both in the form of legislative amendments and in the number of written questions, I have detailed the problems that, in most cases, do not involve calling for additional budgetary resources, often it would be enough to overcome a few bureaucratic obstacles and, with attention to the players in the sector, to achieve a more efficient operation. Unfortunately, no positive response was received either, unless we consider it a positive response that at the committee meeting Deputy State Secretary Zsolt Feldman from the Ministry of Agriculture said the following, when I asked several times about these issues. Once again, if we want to put it in an administrative language, then at the moment within the FM there is the concept that we have developed, in this, I think it will take two weeks for us to do our own things. After that, at the end of March, at the beginning of April, I would like to have the necessary consultations with the riding industry, or to begin, and we will see what results this will have. 'Secretary,' said the Deputy Secretary of State. We have now left early June, so we are well beyond the date the Deputy Secretary of State has set for himself. In this way, I would like to have an answer to what the Deputy Secretary of State has said at the end of my speech after the agenda, because the professional discussions have unfortunately been cancelled, at least those who have been kept accountable in the profession have certainly not been contacted, because I would know that. Unfortunately, there is no representative of the government here, but I hope they take the courage and take the profession so seriously that they will respond in writing. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-08-385	To speak after the next agenda, Mr Sebestyén Vigó, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke with the title of responsible governance, irresponsible opposition. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-386	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, when we discussed the budget amendments in the People's Welfare Committee, at the end of the committee meeting, Ms Ágnes Molnár broke down and accused us of imposing irresponsible and unfounded amendments on the Parliament and the People's Welfare Committee. However, if we were to accept what the responsible and wise government had put before Parliament with great preparations, very great work and negotiations, then this would not be the case and it would be possible for Parliament to operate smoothly as a country. I don't know what motivated that statement. Of course, it is clear that, on the one hand, it is common arrogance from the governing parties over the past five years, which we see every day, whether in Parliament or in everyday life. It is also possible that since our diligence has extended the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee to a length of time, Ágnes Molnár did not like it that much. Thirdly, it is possible that his conscience has spoken, seeing that in fact, in contrast to what he said, we have tried to improve the fate of our own field with sound and responsible amendments. Since it is the People's Welfare Committee, and I am speaking as a social politician, our amendments to the people in need and to help them in any case may have been a bit of annoying to his conscience. That could be part of the deal. We can think of the development of certain sectors, of the deficit that we wanted to make available in the budget, of the 30 billion forints required for the introduction of the social career model, which might have been included in the budget. The other, which may also have been included in the experience of the number of amendments and the faction membership of the petitioners, had to face the fact that the MPs, whether they obtained individual mandates or came to the Parliament from a list, did not fulfil their obligations. [[0.00]] It is their duty as Members to make amendments to the budget submitted by the Government to enforce their own ideas, whether in their own territory or in their narrower Patria, or in their constituency, and to submit amendments to this end. The congresswoman was terribly mistaken. You've confused it, and you're sorry about the common expression, the season with the guy, because the government that submitted the budget is an executive agency. Its task is to implement the laws of Parliament. The Parliament's task is to discuss the proposal submitted by the Government, to improve it with its amendments, and to accept the budget improved by amendments. And what he accepts will be implemented by the government as executive. As we can see, she is a Member of great error, both in arrogance and in material error and in view of the fundamental pillars of democracy, she does not seem to be aware of these concepts and of these relations. I would also like to send a message to him, although he is not here now, and I would also like to tell the government that these issues should be put in order, and not to immediately dissuade opposition representatives, that their amendments are unfounded. Because as opposition representatives, I can say that we had the same discussions, that we had the same discussions with the representatives of the professions, that we had the same discussion with the stakeholders, that we had the same discussion, that we had the same background of an amendment, and that we also examined and agreed on the draft budget bill submitted by the government, and that we tabled our amendments on the basis of these discussions, these background studies and these researches. So instead of scolding the opposition, instead of pedestalizing its own government, it is considered sacred, inviolable and infallible, to carry out these analyses in the same way. And it is possible for us to look at our own area of expertise, health, to come to the same conclusions on certain issues as those opposition representatives who have taken the time to make amendments trying to improve this very bad budget, the 2016 budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-08-387	On the last agenda, Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a speech on the title of the complaint by an ambulance. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-08-388	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that there is any new information for many of us here in this Chamber that there is serious trouble in the emergency room. Almost every week, you hear about ambulances arriving late, lack of expertise, humiliating salaries and ageing devices, ambulances. You can be sure, my fellow Members, that this is just the tip of the iceberg. People would be able to report much more problems and life - threatening disorders if their complaints went through the walls of silence. But perhaps the paramedics themselves could tell the most; ordinary heroes who take on incredible stress, trying circumstances and insufficient salaries for a living. They undertake to help their fellow citizens, such as you, my fellow members of the Government. I therefore find it incomprehensible why the government does not take the many problems more seriously. I'd like to read some of the details from a letter I received from an EMT. It'll be educational. Mr. Congressman! I've seen him talk about the ambulance situation several times. I've read the questions and the answers to them. Now I feel like I can't leave him alone. Talking to several comrades in the country, unfortunately we share our views with everyone. The situation of the ambulance is not as rosy as it was painted by the Secretary of State of Rétvár. We don't know who gave you this data, but they don't have a thank-you relationship with reality. If you've been briefed by the paramedics, it's sad. If the Secretary of State knows about the real situation, it's even worse. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And the letter further lists the problems that should be dealt with immediately; despite the changes to the rules, the old rust-crushed car. For the next year and a half, we're gonna have to shut down another hundred ambulances, but there's no sign of supplies. There's a huge shortage of numbers in this paramedic. The official table, in agreement with the real number of people locally known, is not even on a thank-you basis. For example, 63 drivers are only missing in the Central Hungary region. There is not enough numbers on the shore of Lake Balaton, even though the rules are almost inhumanly flexible. You can move paramedics 60 to 80 kilometers without problems or hire untrained workers for the summer peak season. And there are still serious problems this season. Let me finally quote the letter once again, there is nothing to add to that, I think. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár! For me, as an EMT, you can believe the OMS is on the verge of collapse. The workers are on the verge of total burnout. The arrogant behavior of the leaders also helps. We're in the 24th hour. Clean it up before it's too late. Sincerely, a paramedic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-08-389	Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. We'll resume the meeting at 8:30 tomorrow. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 0 p.m. 7 p.m.]]
