u2015-04-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 23rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform you that Róbert Kiss died on 24 April in the life of our former fellow Member. Róbert Kiss was politicalized in the MDF for a short time at the time of the change of system, then entered the SZDSZ. In 1989 he was a founding member of the SZDSZ-greens. He obtained his mandate in the 3rd constituency of Pest county as a candidate for SZDSZ in the 1990 parliamentary elections. In 1994 he entered Parliament on the national list of his party. In his first term, he was Vice-President of the Environment Committee and in his second term he was a member. Between 1994 and 1998 he worked as a notary of the Parliament. His environment, colleagues and friends respected him as a quiet, hardworking, well-meaning man. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room stand up.]] Thank you. Dear House, Róbert Benedek Sallai, member of the LMP, submitted a pre-meeting address with the title Szent György Day. The congressman has the floor.
u2015-04-27-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my speech before today's agenda, I wanted to talk about the exit and the celebration of St. George. Several of the Fidesz ranks have been worried about the Fidesz exit, but they're not. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So I was going to mention the celebration of St. George's Day. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. St. George, known as a legion soldier and Roman soldier, lived in the century, fighting a dragon in most of his depictions, and most of the spring festivals from the Roman era sought to bring up the traditions that accompanied him with the greetings of spring and the prevention of various evils. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] These ruins persisted as a folk tradition, and the Hungarian animal-keeping traditions still commemorate this, since, unlike the sluggish animal-keeping traditions, during the whole year the livestock was out on the pasture, from St. George's day until the day of St. Michael's day, the grazing livestock was in the pastures. Now, this weekend, the exits were held in different parts of the country, and in most cases these old traditional costumes were worn by the keepers of animals this weekend, and they remembered this exit in such fancy filters. St. George's Day is linked to a lot of beliefs, which remove the ugliness from the grazing animal, the grazing livestock. I wanted to remember today, following the exit, that in Hungary this is grazing livestock and agricultural employment, which is in this regard, how it stands. I must say that the trends that have taken place in recent decades have unfortunately not stopped in the last five years, and the government's promises aimed at strengthening livestock farming in this way have not been fulfilled. The livestock production in 1975 was 1.8 million tonnes, 2.3 million tonnes at the time of the regime change, 15 years ago, in 2000, 1.5 million tonnes at the time of the first Orbán Cabinet, now barely exceeding 1.3 million tonnes. Obviously, it is important when we talk about slaughter animals, that we are talking about high-employment grazing, traditional, extensive livestock farming, extensive grass-based technologies, the physiological values of which are much, much better than the retention of stable livestock in terms of the physiological effects of the quality of the meat produced, and it would be very important for the national government to be the primary concern of the health and health of our people. However, it is not secondary to the fact that these grazing livestock modes have a much higher occupational impact than the stable, modern technologies. In cattle, after Trianon, we were able to account for 1.9 million cattle, which became 2.1 million by 1955, and then we could talk about a flock of around 2 million. By 2000, this fell to 800,000, to 682,000 by 2010, and by 2014 the government could see as a result that with some growth we could show 802,000 cattle. [[13.10]] However, it is important to stress that the aid policy, which was coupled with this, did not help grazing livestock, but rather stable, intensive farming technologies, and therefore the stock of cattle on the grasslands did not increase. Similarly, in classical grazing, sheep's flocks grew from 1.8 million to 2.2 million after Trianon in 1955-60, reaching the peak of the last hundred years when almost 2.3 million sheep grazed Hungary's grasslands. This fell to 1.1 million by 2000, reaching almost 1.2 million by 2010, and the sheep population is stagnating at the same time, but unfortunately its population is also not growing. But the condition of our grasslands is even sadder, as after Trianon we had 1.6 million hectares of grassland, after the change of regime 1.2 million hectares, by 2000 1 million hectares, by 2009 we managed to preserve this, but by 2010 it fell to 760,000 in the eight years mentioned. Now, unfortunately, our grasslands are falling by another 2-3 thousand hectares, so it has decreased by about half compared to previous conditions. The problem is that reducing the VAT on pig farming does not help grazing livestock and employment. The problem is that national parks guarding traditional livestock can't get the land out of the ground, they can't even keep traditional livestock. The problem is that livestock farmers didn't get land with public land leases, instead they got tenants who didn't have livestock. And the problem is that Minister Sándor Fazekas in his speech in Tapolca talked about soaring agriculture [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what was last heard from József Torgyán in the walls of the House, and it seems slowly that he is not aware of what is going on in Hungary's livestock farming. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-27-2	In the name of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-04-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Indeed, it was St. George's Day on the weekend, and this is a celebration in the life of Hungarian farmers; a celebration for shepherds, a celebration for all traditions for indigenous Hungarian agriculture. It's a celebration because it always gives you an opportunity to make an account. Over the weekend, there was a milk survey in Méra, which, you know, serves the purpose of Kalotaszeg for the whole season until St. Michael's Day and for the purpose of redistributing the welfare back to the farmers. It was also a celebration in my narrower Patriot, during the Island, as the first goulash was held in Dunaszeg, with 135 Hungarian heifer heiferes from three farmers. I think it's definitely a festive event that should be remembered here in this House. It is appropriate to account for where the Hungarian livestock is, where the grazing livestock is, where all the culture that is linked to this is at hand. I am very glad that he wore this dress, because somehow the Hungarian nation is like a big tree: it has branches that we can cut, cut, graft, but it survives, unless we cut its roots and eliminate it. In animal husbandry and in Hungarian culture, if we do not go back to the cultural traditions that even grazing livestock brings, then we can talk about animal husbandry that has lost its roots, and Hungarian agriculture that has lost its roots. Let us see that during the festival the shepherding of the ancient Hungarian way of life was also a symbol of independence and freedom many times. Of course, in reality the picture is not so idyllic, besides its beauty, it had its shadows hundreds of years ago. It is not an easy profession today either, but it is a very important segment of agriculture. The government's agricultural policy has a central role to play in improving livestock production, restoring the balance between livestock production and crop production. To this end, we strive to provide the highest possible resources for livestock farmers from both EU and national budgets. Between 2015 and 2020 EU agricultural support amounts to EUR 180 billion provide a higher amount for the livestock sector. This year is also a milestone in the life of livestock farming, as a new support scheme for EU-funded direct aid has been launched. Within the framework of the new common agricultural policy, there has been a large increase in the scope of support for livestock farmers. Thus, our country has also made use of the opportunity to announce production-related constructions that serve the sector's best interests from 2015. One of the main beneficiaries of this is the bovine sector, where special aid may be granted to the meat-use suckler cow, milk-use cows and fat-bearing bulls. In these cases, the amounts that may be claimed have increased significantly. My fellow Member rightly said that the number of animals is finally increasing, and I must say that the number of grazing livestock is finally increasing in Hungary, as the presence of livestock is increasing - in any statistics -. The dairy sector received EUR 43.2 million in 2014, which will rise to EUR 69 million this year. The meat-use bovine and ewe population could claim a total of EUR 43 million of basic aid in 2014 under the so-called ruminant restructuring programme. This year, it will increase to EUR 61.5 million and will also be paid for current livestock on a production-based basis. More jobs in agriculture! Within the framework of the programme, which aims to create thousands of jobs by 2020, HUF 212 billion can be added to the additional support for livestock production. Of which 180 billion are national grants. [[13.20]] When planning farming, everyone should be aware that public land is being used in a rental system, that no one owns the land. In the case referred to by you, farmers were warned at least one year before the expiry of the previous lease agreement concluded in that area, and the farmers mentioned by you were aware of this. I would like to inform the honourable Member that in Hungary there are not only state-owned but also privately owned public land, which can also be rented under market conditions. I think, my dear fellow Member, that, for the first time in Hungary, more livestock has gone out into the wilderness than before, and this, I think, is due to the work of both the Hungarian Parliament and the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-4	It is now up to the head of the group of the MSZP, Mr József Tóbias, to address current affairs. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-5	Dear House, In the last few weeks, the government has been talking about submitting the budget for 2016 at the end of April. This would give the opportunity to develop a real, meaningful dialogue in the areas of social groups, care systems, municipalities, health, education and social affairs. That is why we suggested that they do not want to accept the budget in a hurry. Trust that social partners, interest representatives, trade unions and professional organisations can contribute to Hungary's stable, not disruptive, but to developing careers through its 2016 budget. We may say empty words between the walls of this House, but it is clear that what you want in 2016 is the same as the budget for breaking down and falling behind. You are talking about reducing personal income tax, while it is clear in every set of data that it is in fact the taxes on consumption that preserve income differences in Hungary, in addition to wages. Sometimes they understand, because right now we're at the pig's VAT, although they don't understand the point. If there is a low income somewhere, the tax on consumption, the number of taxes, the burden on special taxes are equally high. The reduction of these would help these social groups in substance, which today is about almost two thirds of Hungary. But let's see what's not in your communication about the budget. It doesn't include how they return 300 billion forints to health care that have been taken from him for the last three years. It does not include what they will do with the 300 billion-dollar deficit that they have created in the education system, not to mention that they also want to centralise the freedom of teaching; the professional idea of teachers to prepare our children most effectively for the future, you want to tell them from the same center. And they don't talk about what's going to happen to the settlements where the social security system is being destroyed, who's going to help the people who live there as their last resort. Who's helping with public health care? I know, the answer will be the district office. The district is far from the village, the mayor and the board are the ones who see what and how to help. Therefore, if the purpose of the budget is not to continue to withdraw more resources from the municipalities and keep it as a kind of visual bakery, then the business tax will be returned, they will return their personal income tax to the municipalities, they will return the car tax. And you know what, do one more thing: let there be a municipal allowance for small settlements, so that the educator working there, the health care professional and public servant can feel that the survival of the countryside is not a matter of parliamentary debate and big horse-zung, but is a matter of reality. We need substantial support! But speaking of the budget, we cannot go without saying that we do not mention two specific cases in which Parliament and the population of the country expect a clear response from you. The first question is the traff question. It's okay that all we've said to you in the last year and a half is that you want to hand out these applications for yourself. It's not okay for them to sit around and do a series of burglaries, robberies, and now they're just gonna commit murder, and they're gonna say that it might be possible to change it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And if they can't do that, then at least today, decide to pull that wallpaper off the windows so that they can see what's happening. Because they didn't do anything with what they were planning! The illegal tobacco market is going the same way, and smoking is also growing among young people. So leave the name of the law behind. The voters are looking for valuable help from you. The other is a matter of keeping it closed on Sunday. They've made a bad and damaging law. When do you realize that you can't just refer to heritage conservation and tourism aspects? Do me a favor and stop it, because if you don't, society will force it out of you sooner or later. It's better to take such a step earlier and be in sync with what society thinks about this case. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or stay there and proclaim that you're the only ones who can always be right. Believe me, the people are right. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-6	State Secretary Gábor Orbán will respond. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In relation to the budget and tax matters, I would like to inform you of the following. Contrary to what you said, the planning process is as described in the design prospectus published on 20 March. There's a normal reconciliation between the wallets, and the social consultation is going well. The name of the budget for the tax reduction for 2016 should not fool you about the processes that are taking place on the expenditure side. The government supported the tax reduction proposals by saying that no wallet or sector can receive less support next year than it receives this year. As far as tax matters are concerned, the reduction of personal income tax to 15 percent is in line with the principle of reducing labour, income taxes, reducing the cost of employment for greater employment, supporting families and child rearing by tax incentives, and helping 380 to 390 thousand families and people to make a living next year. The reduction of the VAT on pig meat, which is also a decisive, courageous step and leaves a significant amount of money for consumers, I believe that the points that you have just dealt with will also be answered; so we will also reduce the taxation of consumption. Finally, I would like to say that this cannot be linked to the lag in any way, as the results of the whitening of the economy and the higher-than-expected economic growth allowed for a tax reduction of a total of 170 billion dollars without a reduction in the total expenditure for any portfolio or sector from 2015 to 2016. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about the Trafiks? You should have answered that, too.]]
u2015-04-27-8	Member of the KDNP, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, applied for a pre-meeting speech: a report on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. If there's a problem in the MSZP faction, please resolve it on your own. Thank you. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held its spring part-session last week in Strasbourg. In general, the Hungarian public does not closely monitor what happened there, although the proposals adopted often have consequences for Hungary, and these proposals are also important. That is why I consider it important, as a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party to Strasbourg, to report to Parliament from time to time on some of the events there. It is important to know that the Assembly, i.e. PKGY, prepares the work of plenary sessions in its committees as is customary in national parliaments. I am a member of two committees, the Equal Opportunities and Anti-discrimination Committee and the Committee on Culture, Sports, Science and Education. [[13.30]] I would like to talk about matters falling within the remit of these two. In the preparation of the Equal Opportunities Committee, the General Assembly discussed the report against the discrimination of transgenders on Wednesday afternoon, which was registered by a Maltese socialist representative. The Maltese Parliament recently adopted a law in a similar spirit, unanimously, which was reported proudly. This fact was warmly welcomed by the majority of the Strasbourg meeting. Among other things, it is in the report that, in the spirit of the protection of human rights, there should be no discrimination against persons who are unable to take on their biological sex and who live or wish to live their lives in a different way. They also have human dignity and must be prevented from being bitter because of the negative judgment of society, or their lives may end in tragedy. This cannot be disputed to any responsible thinker or politician, and not to us. However, it is another category that social security has to pay for surgery to change the biological sex, or that a minor child can ask for a change in his gender and name if he considers his own gender identity to be different. And for a Christian, the point of the recommendation that a person who does not accept the identity of a man or of a woman can be registered as a so-called third-sex can be said to be neutral. This ultimately adopted recommendation contradicts the order of creation, that is, natural law, and is therefore unsuitable to us. However, about two thirds of the PKGY meeting accepted it. I must commend Valeriu Ghileţchi, a Moldovan MEP who has tabled 12 amendments, but all of them have been voted down by the General Assembly. On the other subject of the Equal Opportunities Committee, Hungary was presented in the best light, and the discussion of the report left for Wednesday evening did not provoke debate or anger, as it was about the placement of children, social care. About the fact that a child should only be removed from the family if it is in the best interests of the family, so that the poverty of the family cannot be the sole cause and a prelude to such a decision and so on. With regard to this report, to which I have contributed, we were pleased to note that Hungary's legal system and practice comply with all these principles. Moreover, our family support system is at the forefront in Europe. I was able to report to the General Assembly on our family policy measures, such as family tax relief, family bankruptcy protection - these, as we know, came into our legal system on a proposal from the Christian Democratic People's Party - and so on, which all serve to improve the situation of families and their children. This fact must have filled us with pride. Finally, I should like to inform this House that it can be assessed, in recognition of the work of the Hungarian delegation outside, that I have received a request from a reporter for a subject that will be of particular importance from a national political point of view. The situation and support of regional and minority languages in Eastern and Central Europe will be the subject of the report, for which we have two years to develop and adopt. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For us Hungarians, this is very important, so I hope and believe, please and expect the help of the actors in government and political life, so that this can be done in a timely and good quality. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-27-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, In 2010, this government decided to take a real turn in family policy. It was not primarily about the directions that she spoke about, but about how she lives her private life, but about the families that wish to have children, trying to help everyone who wants to have children, the state and the support system, not as an obstacle, but as a help in this, to have all the desired births where they wish to raise children in the family, where they want to have children. We also chose not to address the problem of population loss in Europe, which many other countries are trying to bring active labour into the country in the field of immigration, but we thought it best for Hungarian families to be able to take on the children they had planned earlier. This is why a series of measures have already been launched, with tangible results for today's past quarters. After all, the population ratio of 1,26 in 2010 and the fertility rate, so that two parents had 1,26 children, has now happily increased to 1,41. Here was a low point in population figures in the area of 2010-11 [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] And now it's coming up again, it's a 3.2 percent increase in the proportion of living births if I look at 2014. In one year such an increase, a 3.2 percent increase has not been in Hungary since 1985. So we trust that we will be able to counterpoint the many negative measures taken by socialist governments and greatly alleviate the difficulties of Hungarian families with regard to childbearing. If you look at how much ahead the Hungarian families have been in the last five years with Fidesz-KDNP ruling the country and not the socialists continuing to govern, you can say that the average family in Hungary has received 740 thousand HUF extra resources, to be more precise, 740 thousand HUF extra resources left in the family, and thanks to the family-type tax system, each family has been ahead from 2010, so much it has been able to spend on raising children. In 2015 there is a total of HUF 816 billion in this budget, which is HUF 207 billion more than in 2010 at the time of the change of government. It is very important that, as of 1 January last year, these subsidies can be used to a greater extent by families living in a more modest line and under more modest conditions, since they not only benefit from tax relief, but also benefit from tax benefits, so in their case, in the case of a family with an average income, they almost do not even have to pay taxes on three children. In many cases, net and gross wages in Hungary are already coincident. If we look at how the financial situation of families has changed, then we can see that the net income of families with children has increased by 30 percent compared to 2010 and this represents a 16 percent increase in real earnings. The biggest one is obviously in three children, there is 53 percent, but there is a 37 percent net increase in income in children with more than three children. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But obviously this applies to everyone else, as there is also an 18 percent net increase in earnings for non-children, so everyone has more earnings than they did five years ago. However, those who make a greater sacrifice, who not only devote their income to themselves, but also to others, their children, dependents, have a higher standard of living. We have tried to counterpoint the fact that for many it was also a commitment to poverty. Obviously, this cannot be morally held. It is very important that we have restored the child to the third year, since during the socialist period, a year's worth of souls were taken from all families. This means more than 300,000 forints for every family. This is now available to all, and we have also introduced the institution of adoption. It is also important that the family allowance has been converted into school support for school-age children. This had great results. You know very well that the state will not pay the full family allowance after 50 hours of unauthorized absence. As a result, 29 thousand unverified hours of school year 2009-2010 decreased to 16 thousand. So the proportion of people with uncertified hours has decreased to 53 percent. This shows that the family-friendly turn of events has such additional benefits. As for the future, in short, ten seconds, perhaps one of the most important things is the emergence of a family home-building discount for one child from July 1 also for used apartments. Overall, 12,000 people will use it for HUF 9.5 billion. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-12	It is now up to the head of the Fidesz Group, Antal Rogán, to address the budget for the tax reduction.
u2015-04-27-13	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Soon, in mid-May, Hungary's new budget for 2016 will be presented to the Parliament. I think there's two good news in this. On the one hand, the good news is that this budget will be a budget for tax cuts and will be accompanied by a reduction of tax burdens for everyone. [[13.40]] The other good news is that the Parliament and the government will adopt the budget and tax laws in time to avoid talking about the non-predictability of the rules, and we will also give businesses sufficient preparation time to learn about the tax and budgetary rules for 2016 even when they start planning their business plan for the following year. I listened to my socialist fellow Member, Mr Group leader - I remember when the Socialist Government adopted a budget, a major amendment, if I remember correctly, during the same period in 2006, only it was not a tax reduction, but a tax increase budget. [[Moore in the benches of MSZP. Tobias to Joseph:]] Honourable Congressman, It was then that the VAT reduction was withdrawn, which was announced only for the elections, as a political action for a few months, and immediately in June 2006 the whole thing was reversed as it was. So I think that, compared to this, it is that every year we adopt the budget in good time, which is also a budget for tax cuts, and I think that it also means predictability and security for Hungarian families and business operators. The budget for the tax reduction is this budget, because, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the key to personal income tax will be reduced. This affects everyone in Hungary. It touches over four million people who work and support their family from work. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The rich!]] They'll all pay less taxes. It affects, in particular, people who raise children, including those who are probably the most in Hungary today, because they have almost most families with two children in Hungary, at least this is the most typical family model. There are 350,000 families in Hungary where two children are raised. This 350,000 family will also receive an extra discount, as their tax relief for one child will increase from HUF 10 000 to HUF 12 500. And here I would like to draw the attention of my fellow socialists that, when they were in government, these families with two children paid 240 thousand forints more tax a year than in the current state, and they paid more taxes in one year than in the state of 2016, because now they will save another 60 thousand forints. [[József Tobias: How much was the real wage? How much was the family allowance? Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] You abolished the tax relief for children in 2003, which meant a significant tax increase for families with children. Together with these two tax cuts, just to give examples, a family in Hungary where there is one earner in the family and two children are raised, will pay HUF 88 200 less tax, so they will save on an annual basis in 2016. In a family with two people earning minimum wage and raising two children, they will save 85 200 forints a year as a result of the combined impact of the two tax changes, so they will pay less taxes, so they will have this amount of money. In addition to the reduction in the costs that we have made in recent years, and in addition to the tax cuts that we have made in the past, I think, fellow Members, that this clearly shows the philosophy that we represent. This is simply about the fact that, if the Hungarian economy has the opportunity to generate additional income, we certainly do not want to take this away from people, we do not wish to distribute it inaccessible to all political goals, but, honourable Members, we leave it with the people; and this is an important difference. We strive to have the lowest personal income tax rate in Hungary, because we think it is worth working in Hungary. And perhaps this is why in recent years the number of people who work in Hungary, who work for them today and who want to support their families from work in the future has increased to over four million. I think that it is primarily our duty to reduce their burdens and expand their opportunities. This budget, which the Parliament will be able to negotiate and we hope will be accepted along with tax cuts, will provide an opportunity for everyone who is supporting their family from work today in Hungary to take a step forward in 2016. This is our goal, and we will represent it every year, because we think that if there is an economic opportunity at any time, there will be new tax cuts to be made. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-14	On behalf of the government, Mr. Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, has the floor again.
u2015-04-27-15	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, [[Moraj, intervention in opposition benches.]] I would like to inform you that the budget planning is going as described in the planning prospectus, and it is too early to talk about the main figures. The convergence programme and the budget submitted are also public documents. That is how we will be able to hold a debate on specific amounts. What is important to us is that in the spring session the bill may be presented to the Parliament. Indeed, as Mr Group Leader has said, the aim of this proposal is to increase transparency and predictability in public money matters. We believe that the Hungarian economy is already on a stable footing in 2015-16, so that we can plan revenue developments much more and adjust expenditure to this in the spring session. As I said, we are progressing according to the regular schedule: the public organisations have provided us, the Ministry of National Economy, with their proposals for the future. We discussed these with the stakeholders and presented the proposal to the government. The Fiscal Council will then explain its position and, in the light of the professional opinion, we will bring to you the draft budget, to which I would like your support in advance. As far as the expected timetable is concerned, it also depends on many other factors. We'd like to have the draft before the National Assembly by the 13th of May. The tax reduction proposals referred to by Mr Group Leader include personal income tax reduction, reduced VAT on pig meat to 5%, increased family tax relief for two children and a reduction in certain administrative charges, and the complete abolition of others. This will include a tax salad, to which I also ask for your support. We continue to follow the principle of reducing taxes on labour and income. This serves once to keep more money than families, to live better, to spend more, to save more, but also to pay off an old debt in Hungary, to solve an old challenge, to ensure that the cost of employment cannot be high and that we can strengthen our competitiveness. The first results of this are already tangible and visible in the employment data of the last five years. Hopefully in the future, as a result of the tax reduction, I think we can rightly trust that this trend can continue. As for those in need, reducing the VAT on food helps to improve the financial situation of less wealthy Hungarian families as well. The reduction leaves 120 billion forints in people, the reduction of pigmeat VAT is about 25 and the increase in tax relief for families with two children is 15 billion forints in 2016. I would like to plan the fees and fees by 10 billion less than last year. I don't usually deal with the yelling of Members, but I think it's appropriate to answer the remark from the benches: indeed, the expression of beer salad struck my ear. Indeed, this is not the end of the tax work this year. We plan and are determined to transform the tax system in such a way as to reduce the tax burden on people, i.e. on the administrative burden, which is significantly more favourable than beer mat, by bringing down the tax burden on people, i.e. on the administrative burden, so that the tax office is the one making a preliminary presumed tax return, thereby removing the tax burden on both companies and individuals in this sense. We also expect that tax discipline will improve. This is the second half of the year we're gonna be doing our job. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-16	The last of the speeches before the agenda will be Mr János Volner, on behalf of Jobbik, on what can be the result of untalented governance? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.50]]
u2015-04-27-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the Enterprise Development Committee met. I invited the largest companies in the world to this meeting as committee presidents, such as Mercedes, General Motors, Suzuki and several Hungarian suppliers from the automotive industry. There was a very constructive meeting with professional proposals, the importance of which was considered important by a single party president with his presence, this was Gábor Vona. I specifically asked the members of the committee and the invited guests, since we did not invite politicians, but economic experts and executives to attend the meeting of the committee, so they should make professional proposals and comments at the committee's meeting, not political battles. I find it very sad that Fidesz didn't respect that. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy launched a political attack on Jobbik based on slippages at this committee meeting. My fellow Members, we must declare that Jobbik is not an anti-capital party. We are aware that large-value capital investments in Hungary require a safe, predictable economic and political environment. We would like to declare that Jobbik will provide the economic and legal security that is needed for a productive investment if it comes to the government. At the same time, we criticized the fact that it was not for individual government decisions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There is a need for authorisation and multibillion-dollar aid within this framework, but also for a predictable tax system where investors can keep their investments safe and otherwise the Orbán government could not guarantee them. Jobbik has proposed a tax system to replace the single-key tax system, broadening the scope of family tax incentives and supporting production, a tax system that focuses tax incentives on tourism that brings foreign income to industry, agriculture and our country, as well as catering, because this will enable a welfare turnaround to be carried out in a sustainable way in this country. We have discussed this with many foreign and domestic investors. Investors consider such a production support tax system to be much better and more effective than Fidesz introduced as a single-key tax system. At a time when Jobbik criticises subsidies granted in the framework of individual government decisions, we are not attacking investments against the slipping of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, we point out that the government is unable to create a competitive tax environment for Hungarian and foreign businesses, and is handing out taxpayers' money as a non-refundable grant to everyone who has a good relationship with the government. It is important to see that Jobbik differentiates between multi and multi. It is important to see that Jobbik makes a huge distinction between a multinational enterprise investing in Hungary in a greenfield project and producing industrial production, which inhabits the country's industrial culture, and a multi-business multi-business group that robs the country and invades people with food that is considered organic waste in Western Europe. We have made this difference in every case. At the same time, we believe that Hungary must continue to compete not with the price of labour, but with its qualifications. It can also be seen that the emerging companies complained about all kinds of things that are not related to the international environment, but that Fidesz and the left have been ruling since the regime change. Companies have pointed out that they would like to employ more people, but they do not have enough skilled workers at their disposal. You are responsible for this - and for the withdrawal of funds from education - for this. The Hungarian workforce is not mobile enough. Jobbik also made a proposal in this regard that wanted to resolve this through the cafeteria system. The Socialists and Fidesz voted together on these proposals. For example, it takes years for a Hungarian company to receive electricity. That was also said at the committee meeting, which is also the responsibility of the government. It's all the same thing that shows the government's lack of talent. Jobbik was and will remain a believer in well-established, calm, professional dialogues. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-04-27-19	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It takes confidence to campaign in Parliament three years before the next parliamentary elections with the results of the current ruling coalition. It's like the election's tomorrow. [[The Foreman of Novak: It's not a coalition! There's no coalition!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik's Member of Parliament has listed values for values that have been achieved by the government of the past four years, which have been implemented by the government led by Viktor Orbán and by the faction association behind it. We are pleased that, after five years, Jobbik's representatives have realised that they should speak calmly and constructively, but let us not deny that in recent years this has not been their own for the better Members and for the better party. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: "But now it is!"]] You have gained recognition by their extreme manifestations, by anti-alienism, and not by calm work, not by moderation, not by investment support policy, not by supporting large investments in the national economy. We are glad that Congressman Volner says that if he goes to the Jobbik government, the good Lord says that this doesn't happen. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: The electorate will decide!]] - then they'll maintain a single-key tax system. The one-key sja, please respectfully, we introduced it. We initiated it, and we voted for it. We are pleased that they wish to extend the system of family tax incentives. This is a family tax relief scheme introduced by a government operating through the association of Fidesz and KDNP. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Pay the rich!]] However, ladies and gentlemen, we must strongly reject the fact that the government's individual decisions would not be backed by a prudent economic policy. The Orbán government clearly serves the establishment and development of companies that create jobs, which serve the introduction of added Hungarian value into Hungarian industrial production. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let us not pass by our achievements, in addition to the results that have been the major economic policy benefits for the last five years. In 2010, Hungary was taken over from the Socialists who have been governing for eight years by increasing public debt from 53.5 percent to more than 80 percent of GDP. Every year, the government struggled with a deficit of public finances that was unprecedented and which led to a infringement procedure against Hungary. The result of the economic policy of the last five years is that, while the economy is growing, public debt is falling, while we can maintain a stable deficit of less than 3 percent, and therefore the infringement procedure against Hungary has ceased. This is a very important achievement, and in addition, the internal structure of debt has been transformed, as domestic debt and sovereign debt are to be preferred over foreign debt, as opposed to debt-taking, through the sale of government bonds. Ladies and gentlemen, I must therefore say that the government's economic policy that has been consistently carried out by the Orbán government over the past five years must be pursued. Continue job creation and continue the public work programme. As a result of these two, more than 400 thousand new jobs have been created. We have achieved that today there is not a single worker in Hungary, who is not paid for, because the employees also pay the minimum wage. We have achieved that companies with a turnover of HUF 500 million have a corporate income tax of 10%. I think this is a very big deal, helping small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses. So, Congressman Volner, we ask you, instead of saying campaign slogans here, to support with your votes the economic policy that really helps small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, and which also serves the goal of creating as many strong large companies as possible in Hungary, to give work to many Hungarian people and to bring many, many, many forints to the Hungarian economy, and to increase Hungary's ever-increasing export-import balance every year anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, So I ask you, in contrast to the campaign slogans here, to really stay on the ground of sobriety, rationality and composure, together we will serve our national interests and carry them along calmly, serving the people of the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2015-04-27-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and inform all of them that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present further speeches that are not on the agenda.
u2015-04-27-21	Dear Parliament, Today's speech following the agenda was submitted by R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Anita Heringes, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Csaba Tóth, MSZP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Miklós Soltész, KDNP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP applied for the speech after the agenda on Tuesday. On Wednesday, R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-04-27-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Csaba Hende, a Member of Parliament, has received a private complaint about his immunity from the Bpk. Regulation (EU) No 33/2015/3 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European I would also like to announce that there has been a private complaint against Ms. Ágnes Vadai. 32901/2014.11. No. 7 of the Central District Court of Pesti. I've issued the requests to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We will decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of the proposal put forward by the President under his own authority. No one has tabled a motion to change the agenda, and we are therefore deciding on the agenda proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I note that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda proposal. Dear Parliament, At last week's House Committee meeting, a consensus was reached on the decision of two reports, and one was submitted to the Parliament in presidential power. All three motions propose that each report be decided by the designated committees. Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, Parliament shall decide on this without debate, separately. The House Committee B/4349/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of its proposal B/4349 on the security of the domestic application of nuclear power in 2013. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on this matter separately, without debate, pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The House Committee B/4349/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of its proposal B/4349 on the security of the domestic application of nuclear power in 2013. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision with 111 votes, 49 votes against and no abstentions. B/302/2/2 of the House Committee I ask the Honourable Parliament on the basis of its proposal B/302 of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information on the activities of the designated Judicial Committee in 2014. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision 111 yes, 53 votes not, without abstention. B/4325/2 put forward by the President I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of motion B/4325 on the activities of the National Remembrance Committee for the year 2014 for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take the decision 113 yes, 50 votes not, without abstention. I would like to inform my fellow Members that a decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. So now we move to interpellation negotiations for 120 minutes. Dear Parliament, Member István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, vice-president of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources entitled "The Higher Education and Quality." I would like to inform the Vice-President that the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-04-27-23	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The plan for the transformation of higher education has once again triggered a very strong opposition, mainly from direct stakeholders, with a wide range of university students and academics and professors. It is not necessary to focus on politics and political debate, but on issues that are the most important elements of the quality, professionalism and functioning of higher education. Dear Secretary of State, In my opinion, it is typically not a political task to start a course or define the internal content of a course. It is not the responsibility of the State and of a government to define professional content in any research and educational field. Science, research and higher education are the primary tasks and responsibilities of the institution to carry out these tasks and to judge them, and according to tradition, it is a key element in the quality of higher education that the institution itself, professors, teachers and the elected management of the institution who have spent decades in education, research, perform this professional task. In this policy, I do not think you should play a role. Your government's clear goal is to direct everything centrally, determine what is right and what is wrong in all the different areas of life. It's completely unnecessary! It is the same with higher education. They think that if they define everything centrally, and as embodiments of the central will, everything is under supervision by the introduction of the chancellor system, the appointment of chancellors, the artificial creation of bodies, as recently, and the system of consistors, thereby improving the quality of higher education. That's a big mistake. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are constantly undermining the centuries-old autonomy of higher education, and that the freedom of the elected leaders and the rectors have been virtually symbolic. Soon, a rector has no other responsibility than to pick up the rector's chain at protocol events. You believe that this will once again improve the quality of higher education. Again, this is a huge mistake. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: after the appointment of Chancellors, what is the government's real purpose in setting up higher education consultants? Why do you think that the lower the autonomy of higher education, the higher the level of education? Why do you think that in the field of education and in all its details, the management centre in the capital always knows everything better than our professors, teachers, higher education institutions? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-27-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, Perhaps there are few strategies in recent years, not only for the last five years, but also for the last 25 years, which have been consulted as widely as our higher education strategy. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's why they're protesting on the street!]] He also discussed it, was on his agenda several times, was examined from a student point of view, was examined from a rector's point of view, this was examined by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for the economy, and thus perhaps one of the broadest consensus was able to adopt this long-term strategy for higher education. [[14.10]] And one of the directions to this is, of course, that, with a different sign, Mr President, universities have scientific autonomy, freedom, guaranteed at the basic level of law, and in which no one has any say, and, in addition, universities have an area of management, farming, which is mostly done from taxpayers' forints, as is the case with all other budgetary institutions, since hospitals are financed largely by budget money, public money and a small part of their own revenue. This is no different for universities or colleges. For this reason, we considered it important, whether by the appointment of Chancellors, or by proposing the consistors, that this kind of economy, the care of a good farmer in dealing with public funds, should be more pronounced. However, let the Senate led by the Rector remain open to decision on scientific issues, strategic issues, long-term issues, but let us also help the functioning of higher education by providing them with a little support body, which, of course, has powers, and on certain issues, with which we can help higher education institutions with regard to farming. Not only did we discuss the higher education strategy with the aforementioned Hungarian actors, students, rectors and chambers, but we also tried to present international opinions on it. Allow me to quote very briefly the view of the Director of the OECD, Mr Andreas Schleicher, who believes that this strategy, which we have adopted, which everyone can read on the Internet for six months, and in the implementation of which individual measures are taking place in recent weeks, will respond to the most important challenges and will set out an ambitious step in the right direction. The Director of the OECD also said that institutional autonomy is particularly high in Hungary and that the Chancellor system included in the strategy was very necessary, especially since funding issues should not be addressed by academic leaders of the institutions. I think that we can even agree with you that the Rector does not necessarily have to deal with financial issues in detail. Mr Andreas Schleicher expressed his joy at the emphasis on focus in the strategy, which he believes the Hungarian institutions need very much. Some elements of the strategy take into account the best practices presented by the OECD. For all these reasons, the strategy is timely and extremely important for preserving the global competitiveness of Hungarian higher education. And the real challenge is to take further steps in the world of implementation. It can also be seen from this that, at international level, the direction set out in the higher education strategy, which is being converted into small money, converted into legislative proposals, and on which preparatory work has been carried out here, and some proposals have been made in advance, which also strives to make Hungarian higher education competitive at European level. But you know that on 21 April, when we held another meeting in the round table on higher education, the President of the Rector's Conference also said that there was a close consensus in the discussions, he spoke about a modern and developing higher education, and the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also spoke positively about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Vice-President István Hiller if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-27	Mr President, I don't accept the answer. I did not sense that hundreds of students were marching on the streets of Budapest for a celebration. I did not see at all that the opinion quoted above was read among themselves, and they were therefore happy to target the Grand Boulevard. I do not sense at all that university lecturers, university rectors, are pleased with the appointment of chancellors and thus their reduced margin of freedom, and I do not think that the wording that the Chancellor is not responsible for anything else except for what has a financial background would be a correct approach, because I do not know at all any area in higher education that has no financial background. The full membership of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee may not have been cancelled by the European organisation for a reason, because your government has completely covered it. Based on all this, I don't see any improvement in standards, just sinking and chaos. I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As we have heard, Mr. Vice President did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 104 yes, 49 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: instead of abandoning the acquisition of the land of the national parks, they try to fill the land hunger of fidesz friends with new tricks. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In spite of the protests of 170 NGOs and nature conservation organisations, despite the ombudsman's protests, despite the opposition parties' opposition parties, the two thirds failed in the previous vote, but now the proposal for the restructuring of the lands of the national parks was brought back to Parliament. In order to group these areas into the National Land Fund Management Organisation, there may still be a reason if this organisation had been operating in the past, as it would otherwise have to be in a normal country. However, every week there are new scandals coming out of the organization's house, and the operation of this organization is inaccessible, corruption-ridden, and a multitude of unprofessional decisions. In addition, in our view, national parks have the possibility to continue to manage these conservation areas in a professional manner. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has already expressed its position at all forums, and we have drawn attention to the consequences of the government's efforts in this regard, and we find it unacceptable, as there are obviously many disadvantages for national parks and through this for the natural values of our country. Such as the relaxation of natural aspects, the possibility of this, the reduction in the revenue of national parks, the possibility of land dogs covered by centralised management will increase, in our opinion. And these are not some kind of opposition fears, but suspicions and assumptions about us from NFA's daily practice. Of course, I know what answer will come to my question, as we have talked about it here in the House walls, but, depending on this, I think it is understandable why the government has once again ignored the fears of these civilians and opposition representatives. It is feared that this story is really nothing more than an easier distribution of the land of the NFA, as a result of which, by the way, hundreds of families, perhaps thousands, have been deprived of the opportunity - mainly because of animal keepers - to favour certain circles in the evaluation of proposals rather than giving preference to livestock workers 30-40 years ago. The situation, as I have already mentioned, is most striking in the case of the Hortobágy National Park, and I see that this draft legislation, which would punish national parks, is nothing more than that - just such cases have been made public - it is easier to cover these dogs under the auspices of the NFA. Unfortunately, the negotiations promised were also cancelled, and only when the draft legislation had already been submitted, so the two-thirds passes were taken out of the present version, half of them remained in it, which remained unacceptable and did not change in substance. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State why the opinions of professional organisations have been ignored; what is the real reason why these areas are going to the NFA. We also call for this draft to be withdrawn. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The response to this interpellation will be heard from Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I find the conduct you're conducting here to be incorrect. We had a meeting, you came to this meeting, you said you would support the bill in everything, but you do not think the solution is good for the national parks, you support all the others. Compared to this, we agreed to send an amendment and then send an amendment to take away all privately owned protected natural areas from the state. And now you're saying we don't know what we want to do with this law. I find it incorrect to take the attitude that you say that in a two-thirds law, you say no to the two-thirds part, leaving the part that requires a half majority. A half majority of Parliament can accept the part that requires a half majority. You took the two-thirds part out of the bill, dear congressman. I don't know why it's a problem for us to take the liberty of making a decision with a half majority. Besides, as far as national parks are concerned, there should be neither a half nor a two-thirds law, because the National Earth Fund is concluding a trust agreement with them, a temporary one. [[14.20]] So if the government decides to marry him, then this contract will be terminated by the National Land Fund and there is no land in the national park - but that is not the goal. It was a law, my dear Member, about what you voted against, but I would like to give some examples of it. One is that, say, agricultural training institutions, genetic engineering institutions, research institutions should be given free land for asset management; they pressed no on it. They also pressed "no" for public employment purposes to receive free management of local government land; they pressed "no" on it. Perhaps, by the way, to the good-run devecser municipality, who turned to the NFA with this, so that, come on, let him get land from the NFA for public employment, and then I will write that with your votes, unfortunately, this will not come true. With regard to the technical aspects of nature conservation, how many NGOs and how many opinions the government has received, I would like to clarify that. We respect all opinions, but this law is not about conservation rules, it does not contain conservation rules, it contains land management. There's no common set. Nature conservation rules have already been defined by national parks and will continue to be defined by them. In parentheses, I note that the National Land Fund manages more conservation areas than the ten national parks, yet you have not once come up with the idea that all nature reserves should be transferred from the National Land Fund to the national parks, but for some mysterious reason they feel that this law is about this. I would like to make a strong correction for you: you claim that thousands of people have gotten to the ground. Congressman, you're arguing with facts. In 2010, 600 people used the land, the state land, and now there are more than 7500 winners. I'm asking you to be nice, tell us why you think there's less use of land than before. He also mentioned that animals are slaughtered from whole parts of the country because of who won or did not win. I would like to remind you that less than 5 percent of all Hungary's agricultural land has been in operation for the farmers; this is also in some logical contrast to what you would like to tell us. Moreover, the operation of the National Earth Fund has been subject to a number of litigation proceedings on public affairs and other issues. In all cases, these lawsuits have been closed, and no court has ever experienced any suspected corruption event. [[Moore in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] I would therefore like to expressly reject this statement, and please state which court has given such a statement on the basis of which judgment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[Noise.]]
u2015-04-27-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, speaking of that meeting [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The amendment that we put on the table did not please you, because what you were talking about as a problem was not the point. So in the fact that the land of the national parks is being transferred to the NFA, I meant, in word, at least from our conversation, that it would agree, and perhaps the government would back off in this respect. So if you didn't agree on the details, you would still have had plenty of opportunity to change it. By the way, our amendment was about what we agreed on, and in this way, I am, of course, sorry that it was finally not followed. I didn't tell you about the two-thirds part. The ones he highlighted, of course Jobbik can support, we did not have any problems with them, I did not speak out against them in any forum. Our problem remains that they want to move the land of the national parks to the NFA, with the intention of giving it to their friends, as has been the case with regard to other state land. Of course, I cannot accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 38, with one abstention. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. How will this develop? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, please.
u2015-04-27-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is increasing evidence that the use of EU funds is not only inefficient but also harmful to the country. After five years of government, you're responsible for this. Following an investigation by the European Commission, which found an irregularity of 30 percent of the projects under investigation, a total of HUF 700 billion has been suspended, and this is only one operational programme, several others are under investigation. You are also aware that these were all projects that were issued, evaluated and partially implemented under the Fidesz Government, and that many failed projects have come from the past year and a half, from the time when, Minister, you were already responsible for allocating resources. The distribution of money has so far turned out to be scandalous, where we scratched it, and there must have been some corruption. About two thirds of the 14 billion of the Öveges programme have gone off the grid; the National Roma Municipality has spent hundreds of millions of money on Roma employment without performance; there is a great deal of public procurement for one company, which is also a form of waste of public money. The funds will be diverted from their original goals by those who are currently writing out and evaluating applications and public procurement, i.e. at present with your help. The country is essentially deprived of the potential for ascension by its own elite, so development resources simply enrich the pockets of the fidesz economic hinterland. In such a situation, however, they speed up the drawdown of money, for example, by a new law that destroys our cultural and natural treasures, we have nothing to gain from it, not even because this system has serious long-term consequences, and there is contrasting in the economy. Not businesses that can stand on their own feet, good products and services, but hustlers, debt-payers, who would otherwise be unviable, and into this dog culture, a new feudal system, now a generation. Minister, we would like to know how you intend to ensure that EU funds are not transferred without performance, not to the Fidesz Moonyard and have a sick economic structure, but are indeed serving Hungary's development, the common good. Who takes responsibility for the fact that at least one third of EU projects appear to have been incorrectly used? Or will Hungary continue to be a country without consequences, as it was before you? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-04-27-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The answer will be given by Mr János Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-04-27-37	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Member for her interpellation, although I would like to add that I have noted the work of your representatives primarily on her preparation and calmness, and this interpellation is now somewhat contrary, but to be able to speak calmly, whenever I am at your disposal and my colleagues in order to have a deep insight into European Union finances. As far as objectivity and professionalism are concerned, I would recommend that every fellow Member of Parliament, in the next year, deepen or increase his knowledge of the European Union's development institution, as this is clearly necessary, in order to conclude our first development cycle in the European Union. Congresswoman mistakenly spoke of 30 percent, but it doesn't matter what 30 percent of it is. I'm glad I'm getting the chance to change the numbers. Between 2007-13, so far in Hungary, we can talk about 70,000 winners, 43,000 of the 70,000 winners. You may be right about that, compared to all Hungarian businesses, this is a small number. 43,000 companies won, 53 of the 43,000 companies were affected by the European Commission's investigation at the moment. Nineteen out of 53 were found deficiencies, and indeed, 19 out of 53 may appear to be 30 percent in a special interpretation, although that is enough LMP interpretation to put it mildly. So to brand 43 thousand Hungarian businesses out of 19 wrong applications, I would be careful to do so, given that these applications affect the government periods of three governments. So I would be careful here, not with the rating of the Hungarian state, because it is appropriate to scold it regularly, with no foundation and no foundation, especially for Members of Parliament - but also because there are all kinds of businesses in 43,000. [[14.30]] And what was the irregularity? The European Commission examined the tenders and said in the tenders - they were mainly machinery and service tenders - that there was a huge price difference between the price of the machinery purchased and the indicative machine purchase offer submitted at the time of the submission of the tender, sometimes costing twice as much as the indicative tender material when the company asked the supplier for a tender. Neither the European Commission nor the Hungarian institutional system was able to answer this question about what happened between the entrepreneur and the buyer or the contractor as a service provider. I have a presumption, Congresswoman: I would not accuse these 19 companies, including Hungarian large and small enterprises, of corruption, but rather of a lack of capital, and I can imagine that in many cases this overinvoicing between the purchaser and the machine supplier and the service provider has provided self-invoicing. Fortunately, Hungary is not affected by material damage, despite irregularities, given that it is not being withdrawn from us. We are talking about HUF 14 billion, which is affected by the 19 announced applicants. Of course, we will carry the 14 billion forints further, and if we have to pay a fine or correction, we will not lose that amount, as the European Commission has already indicated to Hungary and the representatives of Hungary. I would like to note to you that 43 thousand companies in Hungary received a grant of HUF 1600 billion, and 14.3 billion is not a significant sum compared to HUF 1600 billion. To add, I would be happy if only that had been used in an irregular manner; I think that we will be subject to a number of checks in the next year. My opinion is that Hungary, the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament have a duty not to stigmatise entrepreneurs for the period 2014-2020, but to set up a national audit authority for better control, as our colleagues refer to the fact that they were only fair and generous for the interests of Hungarian businesses. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-38	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, if she will accept the ministerial answer.
u2015-04-27-39	I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary. I assume the problem is not so tiny, because if it were such a tiny problem, you would not have asked the European Union Commission to show Hungary good examples of good public procurement practices in other countries. By the way, the LMP is convinced that there is no need to study public procurement practices in other countries, because the problems at home are looking good. Data show that about 80 percent of EU funds migrate to 10 percent of applicants. If you talk to small and medium-sized enterprises, then they tell you that the practice is that there is usually a major candidate, for example, who has won 100 billion grants and gives 10 billion to the subcontractors, who can make the project happen with him, who can pay his employee to do the job. So the problem is much bigger, and I think it cannot be said that this problem is just a teeny-tiny one, and only a few have been examined by the Commission of the European Union.
u2015-04-27-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 109 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Member Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How does the tax reduction budget reduce the burden on Hungarian families? It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. I would ask my fellow Members to listen quietly to the Member's speech. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The country where families can live in safe, predictable and growth-friendly conditions has a future. This aspect was also on our mind when we planned the tax reduction budget. Our political family has already done a great deal for the Hungarian families, from family tax incentives to the reduction of the rent to the discount system for family home creation. In a budget, much can and has changed over the last few years depending on the performance of the economy, but one thing cannot be questioned: the burden on families is to be removed and more money left in the family register. Please allow me to refer in a few sentences to the changes planned in the next year's budget, including those that specifically concern the framework for family tax incentives. First of all: next year's budget will reduce the burden of personal income tax to 15 percent, which affects more than four million people in Hungary. Secondly, it is cheaper for families to get another basic food, pork, because the tax on capital meat will be reduced by the government to 5% in the next year's budget. In addition, tax relief for families with two children will be increased and various levies and procedural fees will be reduced in 2016. Thirdly, let me stress that the budget for 2016 will be the budget for the tax reduction. The economic policy direction launched in 2010 continues, according to which we reduce the burden on Hungarian citizens year after year, by increasing the capacity of the economy. The performance of the Hungarian economy, thank God, increased in 2014, and we expect an increase in 2015 as well.Therefore, more money can remain with the Hungarian families in 2016. At the same time, we must not forget that we must also maintain the process of reducing public debt. Next year's budget plans the deficit to be well below 3 percent, as it was this disciplined fiscal policy that allowed us to stand up from Europe's sham, to end the infringement procedure against Hungary due to overcoming the budget, which was launched in 2004 and much more confidence in the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian policy, which we would like to maintain in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the Parliament is already in session this year adopt the budget, strengthen predictability and planning, so that the economy will be able to take note of next year's prospects with satisfaction. In the light of all this, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what specific reductions the families can expect in 2016. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Gábor Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-43	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for summing up our plans for 2016. In fact, next year's budget will be a budget for tax cuts, the planned steps will further increase the assessment of work through the tax system and reduce the tax burden on families. Unfortunately, until 2010, Hungary had a tax system that encouraged the concealment of incomes and the livelihood of aid. Since 2010, we have constantly adapted and substantially reduced the tax burden on work, and we have also introduced a single-key income tax of 16% and a family discount on children. In these areas, we can, in particular, take another step in 2016, thanks to the start of economic growth and the successful fight against the black economy, which will give the budget the space to implement this reduction for families. Growth was not started on its own, with foreign exchange loans being released, bank accounts, debt cuts, other economic recovery and job creation measures, while preserving the stability of public finances, allowing our growth numbers to be the second highest in the European Union by 3.6 percent last year. In the whitening of the economy, not only the said single-key personal income tax and tax credit, but also the system of online cash machines and the introduction of the EKAER have also been a huge step forward. The results of last year's VAT revenues are already well reflected, and this was among other things the basis for the reduction of the tax burden on families by a total of 170 billion from next year. As a result of these measures, a two - earning family with an average income, with two children, will earn nearly ten thousand forints more each month. I would point out that this is a total reduction of 2,700 billion in the tax burden on families since 2010. The reduction of pig VAT reduces the tax burden on this product range by 25 billion. [[14.40]] With the reduction of fees, fees and the abolition of certain charges, we will reduce the tax burden by 10 billion. Honourable Congressman, Allow me some more data that can help you to better understand the situation in response to your question. By 2019, we would like to gradually double the benefits of families with two children, which will substantially improve the income situation of 380 to 390 thousand taxpayers. I would also like to add that the government is also trying to contribute to the start-up of lending in Hungary, so that jobs can be created again. To this end, we have concluded an agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and it is also intended to increase this lending activity by gradually reducing the bank tax. Mr President, the measures so far have already demonstrated their effectiveness, since they have created conditions for growth in the economy and for us to go one more step further in these results without going back into the excessive deficit procedure. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-04-27-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I listened with great comfort to his sentences, especially the ideas for the future. After all, we already have more information on specific support schemes for the 2016 budget, but the Secretary of State has now projected further benefits for the period up to 2019, which is also reassuring because the strategy that the government has been following since 2010 has not changed, which means that every year, as the capacity of the economy offers, it reduces the burden on families. The HUF 2700 billion we have already accepted in the budget in the context of the family reduction, and with this we have been able to reduce the burden on Hungarian families, I think it is unique not only in Central Europe, but throughout Europe. Therefore, with pleasure in taking note of what the Secretary of State has said once again, I accept his reply with thanks. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have heard that the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Member Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, How do you intend to restore the recognition of firefighters? It's an address. I would like to inform the Vice-President that the answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Mr. Vice President will take the floor.
u2015-04-27-47	Mr President, Dear House, Firefighters don't deserve what they get. Being a fireman is a calling. Firefighters have the highest confidence throughout Europe, because according to surveys, 93 percent of the population trust firefighters; they are referred to in vain as horsemen. This is the case in Hungary, and they do not receive the recognition they rightly deserve. The representatives of the profession say this, and I quote: "It is not material recognition, but rather a cult. It is good to help fellow humans, to save material possessions, to help those in need of trouble. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The formation and name of the Hungarian fire department is more than 140 years old. This 140-year-old has changed by putting him into disaster control. You have trampled the professional identity and pride of thousands of firefighters with their decisions, not to mention that the new name belongs most to the category of joke, because disaster should not be protected, but should be prevented and prevented. The most unfortunate thing is that you can't even hear the demand of the staff in this direction, who want nothing but to be firefighters - firefighters in everyday life, in their clothes, in their vehicles. It means nothing to you, it means professional pride to them. But let's continue: what you have done to the profession and how you thank for the fact that people in your work face death every day, are able to go to the fire for us. They were deprived of their acquired rights by abolishing the early retirement pension scheme. This also took away the hope that an average Hungarian firefighter would finish his superhuman sacrifice at the fire department. The creation of the megaloman giga organization not only affected the identity of the firefighters, but created a humiliating situation by being governed by persons who do not have the professional experience and qualifications of firefighters, not to mention that an already disciplined and well-functioning internal hierarchy has been broken by taking the system of control and disciplinary procedures out of their hands. Dear Secretary of State, What can firefighters expect? Can you at least re-install the inscription "the fireman" on the clothing and on the migration cars? With the possibility of early retirement, as well as the introduction of a career model, will it be possible for a firefighter to close his or her profession or to condemn the most respected profession to death? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary knows, appreciates and appreciates the work and service of firefighters. Allow me to refer only to a Government Decree of 2010, which allowed the payment of the absentee fee between 1 May 2004 and 31 December 2007, the excess work for firefighters, which the socialist governments did not allow. As a result, we paid more than HUF 7 billion to firefighters in 2011. But let me refer to the Service Act adopted a few days ago on 14 April, which provides for the introduction of a new, predictable, motivating system of promotion and salaries for professional law enforcement personnel, including firefighters. Allow me to recall that, under the adopted law, as of 1 July 2015, the salary of the deputy officers, ensigns and officers carrying out the basic duties will be increased by 30 per cent, and for those who do not perform the basic duties - in respect of deputy officers, ensigns and officers - the increase will have to reach 25 per cent of their salary and, in the case of managers and commanders, 15 per cent. The source of this salary increase is 44 billion HUF in the 2015 budget. But I can also give you good news about the sources of the 2016 budget, as according to the draft, the amount of resources that can be spent on personal payments will increase by HUF 93.3 billion compared to the 2015 funds, and the salary increase will continue. After all, as of 1 January 2016, the salary will increase by 5 per cent, by 5 per cent from 1 January 2017, by 1 January 2018 and by 5 per cent from 1 January 2019. Thus, we can say that we can provide a total salary increase of 50 per cent for professional staff, including firefighters, compared to the salary on 30 June 2015. However, this career scheme will not only allow for an increase in salary, but we will present the rules on the new housing support scheme by the end of 2015 and we will also draw up rules on the new savings insurance scheme by the end of 2016 which is planned to be introduced by 1 January 2017. Honourable Congressman, I believe that these facts also express the attitude of the Government of Hungary with regard to the service of firefighters that is truly of public appreciation. As for the question of when the inscription of the fire extinguisher may be placed on clothing and mobile cars, I would like to inform you that the fire extinguishing and rescue vehicles are currently marked with a fire extinguisher, as is the case on the protective clothing of the stock involved in carrying out the above tasks. Honourable Congressman, I believe that the creation of several institutions of the new law of service, such as the institution of the court of honor, also denies the findings that it has made, and we trust that, after the entry into force of the new law, the recognition of the firefighter's profession will increase even further. Indeed, professional firefighters are working to ensure the lives, wealth and safety of people, and I would like to thank all the firefighters in Hungary for their service. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2015-04-27-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr. Vice-President if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-51	Mr President, Dear House, I can't accept the answer. Because although it is true that there will be a salary increase due to the fact that the young and middle-aged people who leave the fire department after the police are already in mass, and go to the West in the hope of much greater salaries, that is true, but just because you will raise your wages by 50 percent over long years, at 65, you will not be able to go up to the 10th floor with 30 kilos of equipment. Here's the basic problem. If they're going to raise their salary by 5,000 percent, they won't be able to, because we're biological beings, intelligent biological beings, who should understand - and you should understand - that this is simply a physical impossibility. And until you change that, don't tell me that you're doing anything for firefighters or for those professions where it's biologically impossible to work at the age of 65 and, for example, you'll be rescued from an apartment fire. That's what you need to change as soon as possible. That's why I can't accept that answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Mr. Vice President did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm going to ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 97 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: what convinced you of the functioning of the planning economy? It's an address. I would like to inform Congresswoman that the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, and I apologise for the fact that I have pushed the script forward. I promise I'll pay more attention some other time. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-04-27-53	Thank you, President. I hope you didn't want to get away with my question. Dear Secretary of State, Paraphrased a classic: Fidesz breaks into the Hungarian education system whenever possible. So does the current Fidesz government. Let me just say a few words to you from the news of the last few days: 15-year-old IT textbook in the textbook range. Fifteen-year IT textbook in the textbook range! Instead of cops and public workers, teachers will revisit the textbook, but there will also be centralization. The economic wallet offers a textbook which is deemed illegal by the EMMI. Universities are recarved by misconceptions and superstitions. In addition to the chancellors, they even create a consistorium. They're closing another major. Hungarian students are being pushed abroad. I could continue the line till the sun. This looks exactly like no one in the government is paying attention beyond the D.O.D. windows. The problem is clearly that no education director has any idea of digitalization and globalization of university courses, the expansion of free mass online courses worldwide, and the development of higher education in global competition. They have no idea how schoolchildren are going to get information and even think about it. I believe that today's government is far from fit for the future, but unfortunately for the present. In Hungary, you have the impression that you are being watched to experiment with the restoration of some kind of planning economy in the eighties, thus systematically destroying the foundations of the future. Let me tell you something, because you are decision-makers: today's kindergarteners will work in a job that may not even exist today. In comparison, do you clearly believe that the state, the state's school system, is able to provide all the knowledge today for 40-50 years of career in a man's life? Do you really believe that the lives of millions of children and young adults can be successfully planned out of a ministry room? This way, please, is the path of destruction. This is the policy of the knowledge crisis, which is being deepened. Dear Secretary of State, That is why I am asking you, and I do not intend to be poetic: does the government plan to review its education policy in the light of reality? Is the education government involved in learning about the global transformation of higher education? Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I think you've given us some kind of a review of the headlines of the online press that you've been bringing down in the last few weeks, and you've read us a bunch of them. But when we talk about public education, higher education, it may be more interesting or more important to go into the bottom of these questions. You obviously don't like to go into the period when 18,000 teachers were laid off when school college and music school normatives were sunk below the 2002 level, when the funds for talent management were reduced to the order of 100 million, or when they took away their 13th month salary from all teachers. At this time of the socialists, there was a complete lack of concept in the field of education, and that is what you are very deeply silent about. And I reject most of the accusations you've made on behalf of colleagues who do their job every day and try to achieve the best possible performance. How much the system of Hungarian higher education serves the future and the past, I have already quoted today the opinion of a director of the OECD, Mr Andreas Schleicher. I would now like to quote just one and a half sentences: some elements of the strategy take into account the best practices presented by the OECD, which is why its implementation is extremely important for preserving the global competitiveness of Hungarian higher education. So you have been talking about globalist challenges, but if you want Hungarian higher education to meet this, you should support the consensus-based higher education strategy that we have talked about here in Parliament many times. I would like to take an example from the questions you have made, the 1999 digital computer IT textbook, which was not put out of use under socialist governments. You forgot to tell me that you have a colleague sitting next to you, who was a minister of education, he could have taken it out of the recommended books. But I must tell you that there will soon be no IT books in Hungary. There will be no, honourable Member, because if you had examined this issue, you would have seen well that a good part of the educational material will be transferred to the public education portal, and that the workbook part of IT teaching, as well as the whole learning process and textbooks, will continue to appear as digital services on this national public education portal. So there won't be any IT textbook in years, because, obviously, IT is the first thing we should do for digital carriers. If you are talking about modernity, honourable Member: the National Basic Lesson Plan, following the recommendation of the European Parliament and the European Council, is based on a 2006 recommendation No 962 on how you contribute to lifelong learning, and it is also important that we have recorded in the last five years that we not only pass on knowledge to young people, but also the skills needed to learn, which can be used throughout their lives, because when someone leaves normal schooling, either at the core or at the middle or at the top, he will obviously need these competences in the future. As regards the delivery of textbooks, you have forgotten to mention only one question in this regard: that teachers who participate in the distribution of textbooks as textbook managers will be tripled their income in this academic year, so these teachers will receive three times as much honor as they have received before. He also forgot to say that this new system was announced by the education government not only with the KLIK, but also with the National Teacher Faculty and the Friends' Circle of Handbooks, because it was preceded by a broad consultation, and all stakeholders agreed on this. I think you're arguing with reality on a lot of issues, not with the ruling parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State's reply. [[15.00]]
u2015-04-27-57	Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I do not accept your answer. However, between 2002 and 2010 they did not hear much of it in education policy, but in nothing; your period is characterized by the term . coal-disconnection in higher education. You'll be surprised, fellow Members. Or the photocopying of those workbooks in the Hungarian school system hasn't been like this since the change of regime, or even before the change of regime. You brought all this. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] By the way, in a cheap way, excuse me, let me finish, by the way... - who reads the newspapers, the students protest on the street; and the Magyar Nemzet describes the words of the researcher who referred to the OECD, by the way, is false to Mr Hiller, who says that the uniformization, centralization, the withdrawal, the emancipation, the destruction of the whole system as it is, is your fault - is that what he refers to? Which one of us can read the papers better? The fact is, my dear Secretary of State, that during your period, the textbooks are being photocopied, and they've demoted the system with equatorial books. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't accept your answer because practically the National Basics are unteachable and unteachable. Be nice, don't just take the tin foil off the tramps, not wait for a murder. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] ♪ but ♪ .......................................................................................................................................... [[They're shutting off his mike. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Thank you. One more. John Lazarus: It was good. More! A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-27-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. Member Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. How the TeSzedd contributes! a movement for our country's waste management? It's an address. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-59	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This year between 15th and 17th May will be the three-day, TeSzed! - voluntary waste collection action for clean Hungary, organised this year by the National Institute for Waste Management of National Environmental and Nature Control. The, Do it! - voluntary action for pure Hungary - the largest voluntary movement in Hungary. For the fifth time this year, in the framework of the waste collection operation, the TeSzedd will clean the country wide in spring! volunteers. The aim of the movement is to jointly clean up our narrower and wider environment each year. The programme's undisclosed aim is also to give as many people as possible a sense of the taste of volunteering. Efforts to protect our environment give all people the opportunity to prove what significant work can be done voluntarily, with a community. Protecting nature is a calling word for most of us, which is why TeSzed has been in the calendar for the fifth year! program. In recent years, it has been proven that it is possible to mobilise the Hungarian population for a good purpose. From the initial 50,000, there was a significant increase in the number of people who volunteered for the action, which meant the collection of some 2,200 tons of garbage in the last year. They are smaller or larger friendly, workplace communities, families and - very important - more and more young people every year. It is important that working with active participation will make participants aware that it is possible and necessary to devote our time and energy to action in the interest of the community. This is how environmental awareness and nature conservation become our personal and community issue by raising awareness of responsibility. That's why you're taking it. In terms of its Community contribution, it is much more than a waste disposal action because it focuses attention on the contexts of environmental protection, nature conservation, energy saving, waste management and rural development. This is how it becomes a mission to serve the future not only in theory but also in practice. Take it! the day of environmental awareness, the most direct contact with nature. Nature is huge, man is tiny. Therefore, man's existence depends on his ability to establish a relationship with nature, how he understands it, and how he uses his forces for his own benefit, writes Albert Szent-Györgyi Nobel Prize winner. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary whether further increases in the number of participants in the action can be expected, in which parts of the country you can join the programmes, the impact of the action on the system of waste management in transition. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let the date resound, the National Waste Management Institute of the National Environmental and Nature Control will organize the National Waste Management Institute of TeSzedd between 15 and 17 May this year! Garbage collection operation. Indeed, it is a tradition, since this spring is the fifth time they have called and are waiting for those who are concerned about their immediate and wider environment and want to do it. Dear fellow Member, I am happy to inform you that the number of candidates for TeSzed! increases from hour to hour. In recent years, the number of participants has gradually increased, making it the largest voluntary community event in Hungary. To the action, take the action! It is available on its website, so far almost 55,000 registered from different settlements in the country, and 850 sites have been identified, where they clean up their environment from illegal waste. It is encouraging that the number of registrants will be around 10 percent higher for the same period last year, and until May 7, when we close the applications, we hope that another tens of thousands will join us. The most active this year are educational institutions, municipalities, smaller and bigger enterprises, NGOs. Last year, the number of registrants reached 118 thousand, and the actual number of participants was estimated at around 180 to 200 thousand. Volunteer activists, as has been said, collected 2,200 tons of trash, which is about 8800 cubic metres, and they have done almost 1.5 billion forints worth of work. Take it! Many media also contribute to its promotion by drawing attention to the event and informing readers, viewers and students about the current news of the organisation of the action. So the application for the fifth TeSzed! is smooth, and the Internet connection allows you to register for the action from any part of the country. The website can be traced to anyone where there will be trash collection in the country, as well as the possibility for individuals and smaller or larger groups to report to the meeting points identified by the local coordinator. This strengthens not only volunteering, but also community spirit. It is very important that we do not have a number war with the participants, as it is the TeSzd! action is also about achieving an approach in order to protect the environment and nature. The experience of previous years is that those who have started picking up trash not only take heed to their clean environment, but also respect the fact that they do not litter or tell those who do so. I think it's important to stress that the Teszd! Action 3 has already contributed to the development of an environmentally friendly approach for the public and to the spread of practices related to separate collection of waste. We hope that more and more people will recognize its significance. Take it! Action can also help the public to reduce the pollution of our environment by waste and learn to use the opportunities provided by public services. An example is that as of 1 January 2015, public service providers have been obliged to provide a collection system for metal, plastic, paper and mixed waste. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman Mátyás Firtl whether he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-63	Yeah. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. In fact, the essence of my interpellation was to highlight the importance of this action. [[15.10]] And, as the Secretary of State has said, that would be the greatest benefit for me. actions to encourage all of us to take action against illegal landfills, because the 2200 tons of garbage they collect is a larger proportion of those who lay a tonne or two here and there in bushes and trenches. This is what we should work together with as broad a team as possible so that we can sanction them in some way, because we really cannot collect them in a waste disposal operation. So I consider the importance of this community cooperation to be important in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-64	I'll ask Mr. Congressman if I can interpret him as having accepted the Secretary of State's reply. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: No!]] Congressman Firtl, may I take it that you have accepted the Secretary of State's answer? 'Cause that didn't happen. [[Mátyás Firtl: Mr President, I started by accepting it.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why have they hidden the infection data? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Healthcare is tragic [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , we can say that the dangerous situation of the May Other Politics has drawn attention on several occasions, calling on the government to take immediate action. We find the government's reactions to the health situation a teller, because when we recently sought to get to know statistics on hospital infections, even after our request for data in the public interest, the Ministry was only willing to disclose the information with considerable delay. For the record, the database has still not been published, but only the text leaflets containing the main numbers have been made public. It is not entirely clear why a political party has to fight to obtain data on the health situation, why separate applications have to be submitted in order for the government to make public what belongs to all of us. Of course, the information finally made available gives some answers to these questions, since the number of hospital infections has shown a clear increase in recent years. If we read the information that is now really available, then we can see that in 2012 we are talking about 132 nosocomial epidemics, and in 2013 it reports 148 epidemics. In particular, the number of specific epidemics, i.e. emerging only under medical institutional conditions, increased: instead of 44, 50 were reported in 2013. What is more noticeable is that 2039 people got sick in 2012 and the situation deteriorated further, as 2146 people were already affected in 2013. Allow me to make the situation quite clear that you are trying to hide. The risk of infection in our medical facilities is increasing. It is not about the general level of care, the preparedness of doctors, nurses, but about the deterioration of the state of domestic hospitals that is becoming more dangerous when you go to the hospital, because you have to deal not only with the disease that has caused you to go to the doctor, but also with new diseases, simply by going to the hospital. If in the country of Ignatius Semmelweis there is an accurate indication of the problem in health, then this process is more than worrying. The evolution of the number of hospital infections is a small indication of the situation of the entire system. I do not think that human errors are the primary thing here, and it is unlikely that doctors and nurses are responsible for this situation. If a hospital has to last months with disinfectant, which is only enough for days, then it is hardly the health care workers who have the problem. After that, I would like to ask what was the real reason for withholding the data, why they were trying to hide the increase in hospital infections and when they were publishing the entire database. I look forward to your substantive reply to the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Gábor Zombor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Your interpellation also draws attention to the fact that still well-meaning decisions do not have the effect they want, and if they are misinterpreted, they give rise to such assumptions. You are right that the decision of the former Secretary of State not to disclose these data was a mistake, despite the fact that Hungary is publicly and continuously reporting the data to the competent epidemiological and disease prevention body of the European Union. It is also worth knowing, and the reason for this decision as Secretary of State, as I asked, was that these reports were used for similar purposes, so that, by taking out some elements of this report, they were used for a certain trend, phenomenon or even political purposes. It is also worth knowing that Hungary is one of the most disciplined countries in Europe with the strictest reporting system, which means that if we compare these data with other European countries, even with more developed countries, then it turns out that some European countries do not represent very many events that are included in the Hungarian reporting system. I would also like to mention that we have not delayed the publication of the data, as I have changed this procedure, because we have made all the data available to the public; we would also like to give you the data for 2014, which, by the way, will soon be achieved, since 1 June is the deadline. I also wanted to because, contrary to what you said, there are very different trends. And the reason I think that this issue should be handled with caution is because the surveillance report, the epidemiological report that we are sending to the European Union and on the basis of which we are classified, is based on about eight parameters. These include antibiotic use, antibiotic resistance, which is not the responsibility of hospitals; introduced epidemics, large summer diarrhea epidemics, all brought in by visitors from outside. But the point is that Hungary is one of the most disciplined whistleblowers, and, by the way, from the point of view of the indicators, it is absolutely not among the bad ones, but in the average place. The phenomenon of healthcare-related infections is a very big problem all over the world, and it is the country's greatest problem. Therefore, I can tell you that we take it seriously, and that a new policy material will be discussed in society, which is about what to do, and that the regular monthly item on the agenda of the county health management bodies is the National Chief Medical Office's report on this. Please accept my reply, because the data is public and we will do everything we can to improve the situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask the Members who have submitted the interpellation whether they will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[For signal:]] Congressman István Ikotity!
u2015-04-27-69	Secretary of State, these figures - they have been brought to my attention by journalists, and we have also noticed this. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] - were not available, and web archives are also very visible, it is traceable that these data have not been up and now only the reports are available. If the entire database were available, whether now or not, it would probably be possible to avoid what you're saying that they could be misinterpreted. [[15.20]] I would like to draw your attention to one thing, which I mentioned earlier: At the moment, in the country of Ignác Semmelweis, an officer-general in Hungary has to make such a statement that we cannot wash our hands. This is the statement made by the national chief of staff on the basis of the results of a recent hospital hygiene survey. He said that in a thousand nursing days the European average is 18.7 litres, the EU average, which is used as hand sanitizer, is 7 litres in Hungary. I think this data pretty much supports what we just said. I cannot accept your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-27-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Member László Vigh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title "Development of rural cities" as the key to the development of the countryside. Mr László Vigh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The development of rural cities is the key to the development of the countryside. In this spirit, the government launched the program "Modern Cities." The programme aims at our 23 county-righted city, without which it is not possible to improve the quality of life of rural Hungary. We need such development centers that drag the rural areas with them. And the village and the city must not be confronted, but resolved to work together and to rise together. The aim of the programme is to distribute the available development resources in the coming years primarily on the basis of the local decision. On 25 March, the Prime Minister visited Sopron, where a strategic cooperation agreement was reached on the construction of the M85 two-track road between Sopron and Csorna and Sopron and the border, on the renewal of the Baroque downtown and on the development of the World Heritage Site of the Lake Fertő. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This will help boost investment, tourism and water sports events in the city and its surroundings. After Sopron, the Prime Minister concluded a strategic agreement in Eger. The government supports the local development plan. According to this, the four-track expressway connecting Eger with M3, the industrial zone of Eger is extended by transferring state-owned land, and it is classified as an industrial park, the development of the Eger Castle is continued, and the establishment of the international swimming and water polo centre is supported in line with the successful local water polo team and swimming class. Strategic cooperation with Zalaegerszeg was established on 14 April. The city has a well-educated and well-trained workforce, a significant industrial, entrepreneurial past and a strong culture of work, but there is also a lack of good accessibility for the city and its environment. It cannot successfully engage in economic blood circulation. With the help of the modern city programme, they intend to connect the city by road until 2018, with the M7 motorway, but the construction of a new motorway on the planned section of the M9 will begin towards Vasvár. Dear Minister, In this connection, I ask you: what further improvements are expected in Zalaegerszeg and Zala County in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities"? How does the programme ensure that smaller settlements, together with the development of certain county towns, can develop and participate in the ascension? Do the government intend to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the. Modern Cities programme to draw attention to the importance of helping Transcarpathian Hungarians? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-04-27-73	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The interpellation or question of our fellow Member, László Vigh, is of particular importance to all Members of Parliament because in the last 15 years there have been very few cities with county rights in the country, where 5-6 thousand jobs have been lost at once as a result of an economic decision. Very few city leaders and councils have faced, faced and faced with a situation where a company is cutting down a significant part of its capacity there, losing the city itself as a local tax revenue, and perhaps even more serious: thousands of people have lost their jobs overnight. I could say that, out of the 23 county-righted cities, we have to focus on Zalaegerszeg's case, because not only in terms of territorial development, but also in terms of the geographical accessibility of the settlement, but also from a social point of view, it is extremely disadvantaged in the great competition of recent years, because there are developments in every county-righted city and large city, and every city competes for investment and so that it can maintain its population and guarantee a good quality of life. The local government leaders who stood up after 2010 and 2014 in the county town of Zalaegerszeg had to start from a particularly difficult situation. First of all, I would like to reassure the Member and Parliament that all the money that the Parliament has sent to Zalaegerszeg in the last five years through the budget, whether by law or by law, has been put in a good place, since it has been a responsible city management and responsible city management for Zalaegerszeg. In the autumn of 2014, the people of Zalaegerszeg made a good choice, with the new body of representatives and the new mayor in good hands. This is very important because, in the coming months and in the coming years, the Hungarian Government's priority objective is to ensure that the city of Zalaegerszeg, as well as other cities with county rights, has the potential for economic development and ascension, which is important not only for Zalaegerszeg, but also for the entire county of Zala, which has a special settlement structure partly with the two county-righted city and partly with the small settlement structure, where there are hundreds of small settlements where only a few hundreds live, therefore deserves special attention. We can safely say that Zalaegerszeg is inaccessible in the geographical and transport sense at the moment. If the government negotiates with an investor, even though it recommends Zalaegerszeg in the first place - as it has done so and will continue to do in the future - all investors and all investors claim that it is simply impossible to approach the settlement from a motorway. This is a good example of the great responsibility of the government and legislation to put people who do not yet have a motorway connection on the highway from the county-righted cities. We have two problems to solve here at the same time. Zalaegerszeg must be connected to Budapest, the simplest solution of which is to connect the city with the M7 motorway on the trail of road 76, which means four lanes across the entire section length, and the other is to ensure that Zalaegerszeg is connected to Vasvár and Szombathely as well as to the western border area. The important decision was that the first decisive trail of the M9 in Hungary will be between Zalaegerszeg and Vasvár, which means an investment of approximately HUF 150 billion in addition to the four-banding of 76. In recognition of the aspirations of the city, the city administration and primarily the citizens of the city, the Prime Minister proposed to the government and Parliament that there should be two more priority investments, a social community development project in the Lower Forest district, and the establishment of an indoor swimming pool. In particular, in order to create jobs, we will support the expansion of the industrial park, with which we would like to help all Zalaegerszegi and Zala counties to have a job. It also shows that the programme of the Modern Cities is worth dealing with the cities with county rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-74	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Member if he will accept the Minister's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-75	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. The people of Zalaegerszeg and Zala County, when I meet them, their first request is to connect Zalaegerszeg to the national road network in transport and to create jobs. We thank the Prime Minister and you very much for your support in trying to direct the businesses that are looking for you to Zalaegerszeg, and in the transport infrastructure, I believe that a successful urban development can start in Zalaegerszeg. Thank you for your reply. With all due respect, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representative László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - Why do you want to close the Raoul Wallenberg Secondary School? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor, and State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.30]]
u2015-04-27-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It can be said that the cost of education has decreased significantly by 2015, but of course not everyone has done so badly, because the government's house - by which I mean the National University of Public Service - has received more than 100 billion in resources despite government restrictions. In 2013, a part of public education was nationalised that did not escape to church reservations. As a result, even the supply of chalk or the timely payment of utility bills has not been possible in many places since then, but the nationalised textbook market is also accompanied by ongoing scandals. Now, as a further act of government power policy, they intend to play the Raoul Wallenberg Medical Secondary School to the National University of Public Service, and the institution was to be beaten up. According to the original plans, workers and students would have been disbanded into several institutions. By the way, no prior consultation has preceded this, for example, with the National Teacher Faculty, which you have created. The children and parents who were studying in the institution were asked to be informed by János Halász, Head of Department of KLIK at an organized forum after the decision was taken. However, this has only increased uncertainty. He talked about the fact that there is no decision yet, and then that there is already a decision that the school does not work there, and that there will be no education in that form. He also said that a preliminary impact assessment had not been carried out, but also said that some impact assessment had, however, been unable to provide the content of this. Compared to this, students have already been informed in advance of the need to leave school and where to go further. In comparison, an agreement was reached, which was subsequently announced by Minister Balog, which concerns the fact that the school can work only elsewhere, in a different form. I therefore ask the Secretary of State whether a decision had been taken to terminate Raoul Wallenberg Secondary School and Vocational School. Why would they want to beat up a high school at European level? What other institutions would you like to eliminate? What's their plan for an elementary school on Neptune Street at the XVth? District? Thank you so much for listening. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-27-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me start by saying that the congressman has made a comment on this year's budget. What you said was contrary to the reality, since the number of resources allocated to the public education system did not decrease, but increased by 38 billion. So much more support for KLIK, of which we will, of course, use much of it on the careers of teachers, to raise the wages of teachers, as the wages of teachers will continue to increase from 1 September this year, as last September, and will happen next September. As far as the specific school is concerned, I see that the Member may not have been here at the parliamentary session last week, when this was a subject many times. You know very well and you can see from the news that there has been a preliminary consultation here. The Public Education Act requires the maintainer, which is KLIK here in the present case, to conduct a preliminary review procedure with the parents, teachers, student councils and the school board before developing an opinion on the restructuring of the school or before establishing a decision on the restructuring of the school. Therefore, there was a preliminary consultation here first with the teachers and then later with the parents. During these, various options were presented, then Minister Zoltán Balog met personally with the representatives of parents and teachers last week, and assured them that although, indeed, as part of the National University of Public Service's development plans, full Ludovika Campus should serve higher education goals, this secondary institution will sooner or later be replaced by a state institution known for many years. Nevertheless, we will find and find a way for the Wallenberg School itself with the same training, since there are health, social and various human trainings in this school, to continue its work and, as far as possible, continue its work in one place, preserving the name and keeping the teachers, preserving the students, continuing their activities. Perhaps an earlier sign of this was, as you could see, that the recording continued to be announced by this school for the first grade. So this school in Budapest will be able to continue its activities. Until the next meeting of the government, which means that the EMMI has the opportunity to hold consultations for about 6-7-8 days, where this new location is possible, then the government can negotiate about it, because no government decision on this restructuring has been made in a definitive manner before, but everyone has previously been known about the construction of the campus of the National University of Public Service. So this may also be the subject of next week's government meeting, where and how Wallenberg school can be placed, and then any decision can be made on this issue, but I think the Member can accept the answer, too, because these students will have the opportunity, in consensus with their parents, teachers, to pursue this educational activity in a new place, which has taken place here in Wallenberg in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-27-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Kiss if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-81	Mr President, I'm afraid I can't accept the answer. I can't accept it because for the second part of my question, Neptune Street School, XV. He said nothing about his closure in the district, which we heard several rumors about. I can't accept the answer either, Mr. Secretary, because what we're really talking about is that you've already informed the children that you're going to beat up the institution, you've informed the teachers that you're going to destroy the institution. Compared to this, they have withdrawn from the influence of protests and are disguising this as a conciliation, which has not otherwise happened, for example, to the National Teacher Faculty, which you have created. You keep humiliating the teachers, constantly humiliating the institutions. A good example of this humiliation is today, when you reported as a triumph, for example, that you triple the 100 forints per institution or child that teachers who spend several months distributing textbooks receive as alms, and this increases to a gross amount of 300 forints per child. I do not support the further humiliation of teachers, so I cannot accept that answer.
u2015-04-27-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 35 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró and Congressman Gergely Farkas, representatives of Jobbik, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "How long will the chaos continue in the matter of textbooks? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-27-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, He is pleased that the government sees part of its errors in the distribution of textbooks, at least as regards the money for teachers, the time available for ordering and the removal of the packages on the name, but we regretted that they stopped halfway. It is false, on the one hand, to announce an increase in the amount due to teachers, a certain hundred forints, that there are still some who have not yet received last September's money, because KLIK swallowed it as a mammoth institution. The increase is therefore worthless if it does not reach the right holders. Tragically, they intervened with the promise of cheaper operation in the system, eliminating the professional work of publishers overnight, endangering the livelihood of families. In the state monopoly system, experimental textbooks are of extremely low quality. During my visits to institutions, there is no place where I would not hear about the difficulty of teaching teachers. The only way to fit into the state standard is to order experimental textbooks, to choose other publications, to pay more to families, which, of course, is not accepted by teachers, and cheaper books are often of poor quality. Professional and grammatical errors occur in more than one subject. The majority of grammar or literature books are no exception. We can mention the section on auxiliary verbs, referring to knowledge of natural sciences in the sixth grade that students have never learned from any other subject. They worked in the literature books with poor, poor quality images, and they didn't pass through the ideas of Géza Szőcs, a secretary of state of the second Orbán government, and they couldn't find a good resolution picture of him either. From mathematics, children have to solve tasks that have no solution, all of which are not pedagogical considerations, but banal textbook editing errors. In fact, you can also order an IT textbook in which the 16-color monitor is one of the top developments, so it is not XXI. We're dealing with a 100th-century solution. [[15.40]] On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State why they fail to see their professional flaws. Why make it impossible for students to use high quality, popular and high quality publications? Don't you think it's a pity that the Secretary of State of the Second Orbán Government appears in a textbook? When are they gonna fix the mistakes? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-27-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, This government did not give the Hungarian families the promise of cheapness, but made the textbooks cheaper. In the last academic year, you know very well, Congresswoman, there is a billion and a half forints left in the pocket of the Hungarian families and the Hungarian state, as the textbooks cost less if you look at the public part and the part of the family. This will continue in the next academic year, as the cost of textbooks will decrease by another 20 percent. This is not just a promise, but we could also say a proof, since everyone has seen in previous years how much less they pay. It is very strange that, once again, for the second time in Jobbik's benches, we can hear the voices of the former SZDSZ, which protects the interests of market firms. This gives the impression that the good time was when almost unlimited profits could be pulled out of the pockets of Hungarian families, in the pockets of these usually foreign-owned companies [[Dóra Dúró: They were not foreign owned!]] to move it, and when the Hungarian families gained a lot of money. Compared to this, we are trying to create a truly modern system, as you know very well, Madam honourable Member, that as many people have never participated in the development of Hungarian textbooks as in the case of current experimental textbooks. It is about 60 publications that entered the education system in the previous academic year, and there will be a lot more of them in the hands of students and teachers this year. We asked the teachers to volunteer for the development process of this textbook. There were quite a few of them, obviously, who, when these textbooks came out earlier, were involved as experts. Obviously, the textbook Council itself has also given an opinion on these experimental textbooks, but to this day 855 other teachers comment on this, not even for free, as we pay 40,000 forints a month to teachers who send us feedback on what is to be improved in these books or what is their strength. Tell me a previous textbook that hundreds of teachers have been involved in the development of, hundreds of teachers have been able to return their experiences in everyday practice. When we presented these textbooks, there was a history teacher who said that there was a mistake in the history book that was in it for ten years, and that despite being sent in every year to correct it, it was never corrected. We have developed a system in which, in addition to the quality criteria so far, students and teachers themselves, teachers can help the course of textbook development in total 855, so almost a thousand people can help. This is precisely the practice that will best justify our objective. If you look at the infocommunications tools we use, I have already mentioned that the IT textbook will soon cease to exist, because we have created a national public education portal so that they can be accessed from there in as many as possible in the teaching material system. Obviously, this is an important access point, as it is important that the system of free textbooks will extend to three years this year, three years will receive the textbooks for free, which is also a huge advantage. The textbook developed by the state is also different from the textbooks developed by market firms so far, that while the use of the previous ones was often subject to licence, royalty payment, we said that the textbook should be a common good, accessible to everyone. Therefore, all textbooks that we have developed from public money have been posted on the Internet, accessible to everyone via the website of the Institute for Education and Development, can be used free of charge, any part of it. We say that these textbooks should not be used as a kind of market advantage by publishers, but should be accessible and free for everyone, because that is why the state developed them. And the fact that we've tripled the benefits of the textbook managers, I think it's worthy of the work they're doing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This system, which is going on right now, you know that it was set up together with the Faculty of Pedagogism, the Friendship Association of Booksellers, and we announced it together, and everyone accepted it. I hope the Jobbik can accept it if it's appropriate for the teachers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-27-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congresswoman and the Member if they will accept the answer. Congressman Gergely Farkas will now signal this. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-87	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You know, in your answer, everything that characterizes Fidesz was in it, it's going to cause the fall of Fidesz: arrogance, cynicism, perversion. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It's you!]] We never said we'd have a problem reducing the price. We have a problem with reducing quality, which is associated with your activities, the chaos that you caused. You've distorted us because we're not protecting the market, we're protecting valuable textbooks on the market. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Protecting foreign entrepreneurs! It's like SDS!]] Very useful, mosaic and many other textbooks had to be put aside by teachers [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gábor Fodor could say that!]] because of your actions. You're trying to use force to ignore the professional arguments and go through your ideas on the textbook market, which only leads to chaos. We can see that every day. Let me ask you one question, Mr. Secretary of State: do you think that it is lifelike, normal in Hungary, that teachers should be taught secretly from photocopied newspapers or from previous textbooks instead of your experimental textbooks? They are of such lousy quality that they are forced to do so. Do you think it's normal for this to happen in Hungary? [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] Of course, I cannot accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Interpreting representatives did not accept the State Secretary's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 103 yes, 33 no votes and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. Cabbage for a goat? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Bitay Márton Örs State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I am afraid that the Prime Minister did not understand this question of interpellation, because the question was just how unwise it was to entrust national park land to FM and how unfortunate it is to give the natural values that the national park is vulnerable to. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This is regulated by law!]] Obviously, I have had the opportunity to get to know Mr Bitay, Secretary of State, Mr Örs, several times over the last few weeks, so I can hardly get a clear answer from him as to whether it is wise to go under such a government structure. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: And when will you say the interpellation?]] The question clearly turned out to be that the cabbage entrusted to the goat in this government structure is Fidesz, and there is a very poor place in the institution system of nature protection within the FM, because the management of the FM treats the protected areas managed by the nature reserve system in a completely unworthy manner. All they understand is that there are some rip-off, redistributable lands here, and this whole legislation, which will be put back to the vote tomorrow, confirms all of this. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister if this little national park land is missing completely. Wasn't that the best idea? Is this a wise measure, according to the Prime Minister, is it not important to preserve the natural wealth of our country and the national parks that maintain it? What I wanted to know was whether everything in national parks really was about allowing a protected area with relatively low cost but extremely high funding potential to be at the heart of the government's thinking. On the question of interpellation, I am practically trying to get an answer from the Prime Minister on whether there is no chance that the government, Fidesz and the governing parties will reconsider this whole measure. But Secretary of State Márton Örs Bitay has said several times over the last few weeks why he thinks this is good. Despite the fact that it is mentioned on this issue, it is clear from the opposition's consultation that there is no longer any such thing as a unified, transparent treatment. In practice, it has withdrawn all measures that would have been eligible, such as making it easier for municipalities to obtain land from the Earth Fund, so that the NFA might take over the land of the defence, so that we can help social cooperatives, all of which have been withdrawn by the FM, but left in it these insolences, which allow the land of national parks to reach. I must tell you honestly that I would have expected an answer from the Prime Minister, and it would have been good if we had taken action at a higher government level that this was really the government's intention, or that this was just some kind of ground-breaking action by the FM. Unfortunately, I may not be able to get an answer from the Prime Minister, but I would be happy to hear it again, because I have not had the opportunity to do so many times. Thank you. [[Applause for the independents, sporadic applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-04-27-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.50]]
u2015-04-27-91	Mr President, I would just like to record it for the record, because it is now the many interpellations, which have nothing to do with what you have written, Mr President, and this is a tied genre, not that I am making up what I have to say on the way, and I am trying to say it. But, of course, I'll respond to the interpellation. With regard to the sound response, my dear Congressman, we must ask a well-founded question. So what you're saying is, why does the Prime Minister want to hand over the national park land to NFA, Minister Fazekas, the Ministry of Agriculture? He's got it right there. Five years! He doesn't want to hand it over. The Minister of Agriculture controls the ten national parks, and the Minister of Agriculture controls the National Land Fund. No one wants to give me anything. I don't know what you're thinking, Congressman. He claims that the FM withdrew his proposal. As if you were in some kind of blackout, Mr. Congressman, you voted against this. We didn't withdraw it, but you didn't say yes to the two-thirds law and you didn't vote for it. Among other things, you didn't vote for what you listed very well, and I'm glad I have the opportunity to tell you that everyone remembers. For example, national parks have to give the National Earth Fund the land that the state owns. And you said no. Or, for example, that, in addition to the property maximum, national parks can still rent. You said no to that, too. Or, for example, to get the wealth-treated areas into free wealth management for the purpose of local governments, such as public works. And then you stand up in Parliament, and you can say here, in front of the Parliament's plenum, that we took this out? ! Well, you voted him out of it, Mr. Congressman, that's why he's not in it. We'd be the ones who'd be happiest if that were in it. But how interesting it is that, for example, it has never once said that there are thousands and even tens of thousands of hectares of wealth management at foundations. Foundations that were approved by the SZDSZ government and received for decades of asset management. Interestingly, this has never been found in the debate in Parliament, not once, whether this might not be a good place. By the way, there are foundations that are so inflamed by our bill that they quickly tried to put a sloppy 70 billion forint mortgage on their territory so as not to be accidentally affected by this issue. It says in your interpellation that the FM needs national park land so that you can include it in the ground program, as you say, so that we can distribute it to the Fidesz buddies. Well, dear Congressman, you've been talking about 250 minutes about how we distribute national park land to fidesz buddies, and now you're standing up and saying that we're trying to take the land away from the national parks to distribute the land to fidesz buddies. So what's the deal, Congressman? Does the land distribution of national parks belong to the Minister of Agriculture or not? Dear Member, if you would like to continue a meaningful dialogue on certain issues, I can continue to say to you that you should be kind enough to read the legislation, not just general justification or a preparation material. Let's have a substantive debate about this. They said no to things that are being fought here in Parliament, and then they stand up and say that the government took it out of the bill. The government has nothing to do with this. It takes a two-thirds majority, and you refused to ensure that there was a unified management of the state's land, because that was the goal. Nature conservation aspects have not yet been affected by the law and will not be affected, nor has it been included in the concept. There wasn't a word in the bill, to be exact, that wasn't the word nature conservation. There is no common set between nature conservation and land management. You have said no to the fact that municipalities receive this land for the purpose of public employment. So, Congressman, let's have a sensible debate, and I agree, let's just get ready for this for a little bit. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-04-27-93	Well, there was no answer. [[It's an uproar.]] First, Mr. President took over his role and began [[General noise, the president's ringing.]] To give advice on how to conduct, there is a Speaker of the House who will do so, but under the authority of the Secretary of State, it seems to be included. And he says it's a reasonable dialogue. Of course I would, which is why I did not address you with this question, but the Prime Minister. [[Delight and applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] So that was my intention to start talking about it, to see if the leaders of Fidesz might think about how they feel about the future of the nation's heritage. Obviously, I'd like to. What we voted for and what we didn't vote for? I think that the opposition unit obviously said no to the villainy to take national parks, not to anyone else. And several opposition parties have said what they would support and what they would not, but not us, you have submitted the summary amendment from the FM, which is due to end today, so it is your responsibility to know what is happening to national park land, and it is your responsibility that municipalities will not be able to obtain state land in the same way that they will not be able to create social cooperatives. Because it was more important for you to steal national park land than to help local governments or social cooperatives. How can you accept that as an answer? Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 100 yes, 36 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Where are the county health agreements? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that Secretary of State Gábor Zombor will answer you. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent weeks or months, the media and the profession have been loud from the restructuring and redistribution of the county capacity of hospitals. In each county, it started in January, and by mid-February, it should have been roughly all the way down to some kind of agreement, which would have meant involving the county health community and the actors involved in it in the redistribution of capacity. Now it's the end of April, so far, according to the press, 13 counties have proposals for negotiation, and therefore six counties and the capital do not have such proposals. They restated these obligations, re-classified the debt payments, gave themselves an extension; we do not know why the county agreements are otherwise linked to the supplier's payment, but they gave themselves a reprieve, and now they have to beg the prime minister's health suppliers to get what you think is theirs. Meanwhile, I asked Minister, but Minister of State Rétvári replied whether these suppliers should be right in the newly created Giga institutions. He said no, then Minister Balog said yes. "This behaviour is not very consistent, I would not be a supplier," I said in one of my last speeches, "in health care. So, the endless and dubious negotiations continue. There will be committees, county committees, national coordination, we hear. Well, I think it's true to say that if there's something you can't solve, then set up a committee. You are not creating one, you are creating 21; you will create 21, while the sector lives day by day, and the people and workers in it do not know how they will work in the next period. We have also seen that the OEP has made a recommendation where we have seen that in the southern part, where living conditions are worse, it will then become even worse, since health capacities are being withdrawn, where life prospects are better in more developed parts of the country, they will be even better. I think it would be your job to eliminate these disproportions. They do not think about putting the emphasis on real needs, real capacities, real skills; rather, there is only one fiscal approach, that there is money for this, that is what can be made out of it, that is what we will get out of it, and then the Hungarian population will have to do with it. I believe that the aim should be to ensure that every Hungarian citizen is able to receive health care of as much availability, security and quality as possible. Of course, it's important that it can be financed, but it doesn't have to be taken from there. It is about ensuring the basic conditions of life and existence. Health care is a prerequisite for social security, so I ask whether there will be county proposals, when a final decision will be made, how much will this be taken into account in the negotiations and whether suppliers will be finally paid. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-27-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Gábor Zombor. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.00]]
u2015-04-27-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In fact, what you described in your interpellation, I think 90 percent of what we absolutely agree with and we share the same position. One thing I would like to tell you is that I was here in this Parliament when there was a minister of health whose memory I did not want to violate, because he was a colleague, but at that time it was not the principle that we should measure twice rather than cut once, and this is a very important principle in health care, because it is about patient safety. And when you ask that the government coordinate with the health institutions, keeping hospitals autonomous, we imagine the next period in county cooperation, with the benefits of this, and not through a central dictatorship, as I believe you said here a few months ago or a few weeks ago, what kind of spree is going on in this case, then I would ask you to listen to the heads of institutions as well. [[Dr. László Kács: I listened.]] Their opinion on this matter will matter. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As you asked in your interpellation why we are linking you to the negotiations, I think that if we want to think responsibly about the Hungarian hospital system, which has had serious and serious operating debts for the past decades, and did not spare ourselves on this issue, the healing-preventive cash register was 750 billion HUF in 2010 and this increased to HUF 928 billion in 2014. By now adding an extra HUF 60 billion to the system from the central budget budget, which has not happened before, since there have always been extra payments from the Health Insurance Fund reserves, this is close to HUF 990 billion. Can you imagine, Congressman, seeing the tensions in health care, what would have happened if the government hadn't made these increases? I believe that there is a need to talk with great modesty about health, because in 2006 there were measures that have serious consequences. So I would like to ask you to support the effort to make any change in health care based on consultations, taking into account the quality of patient care, and to ensure this through these bodies, in addition to turning farming into transparent, clear and coordinated, thereby making more efficient use of resources. I ask you to accept my answer and to support this endeavour in the future, and South Baranya has nothing to fear on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and ask the Member whether he accepts the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-04-27-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I was like my colleague Sallai R. Benedict, and I can't accept it because there was no answer. I asked five questions, I didn't get any answers. I am pleased that we agree 90 percent on my question, unfortunately we cannot agree on the answer to this extent, even if the Secretary of State warns me to be modest. However, I have to say that if suppliers are not paid because they negotiate very often, very much and very little efficiency per county, it is only at the expense of patient care, and it is only at the expense of safety when suppliers want to destroy themselves and do not want to deliver medical aids. I think this is the most important case right now. I have spoken to the heads of institutions, they have the same opinion, and I suggest - Mr State Secretary - consider that if you consult with the counties, because they are so curious about their opinion, then why should such large national institutions be set up, which will govern them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the middle, in the bottom, the health system was destroyed, and that's why it can't work. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-27-100	Thank you very much. So the congressman doesn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior: It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2015-04-27-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I guess we'll agree that every law is worth as much as we respect it, and we'll have it enforced. The detox season has started all over the country, and this is a day-long nightmare for people living in designated areas. During the detachment, the areas for detoxing are covered by dubious gangs, dividing the area between them, and living on the street for 3-4 days. They sleep there, eat there, sometimes perform their daily needs there, are present 24 hours a day, and guard them, treat the dumps as their own property, until the broken vans and trailers arrive on which they transport the more valuable items from the trash heaps. In most cases, waste exposed by the population is thrown away, torn apart, and everything looks like a huge battlefield in which gangs fight as free troops for their territory. All this can be done without interruption, because the police close their eyes, do nothing against these lawless gangs, and thus deliver the public to these dubious figures for a few days. The area is ruled by them, and the streets and blocks are forced to operate according to their unwritten rules, and the police will let this happen, even though according to the laws in force, this would not happen. The main task of the police should not be to impose as many penalties as possible with the campaign of traffic taxis, but rather to enforce the laws and ensure the peace of the population. The Waste Act states that the property of the public service provider is waste and waste, so if someone takes it away, they commit theft, but at least a breach of property. On the other hand, because of the crime and the offence, the police should take ex officio action and even prevent infringements from happening at the outset. Dear Secretary of State, In case you don't know the relevant laws, I quote. The Waste Act states:. The waste placed in the public domain during the disposal of waste is the property of the public service provider. The Btk. "He who takes away a foreign thing from another in order to steal it unjustly, commits theft." The Act on Interruptions states:. Whoever commits theft, embezzlement, unjust acquisition, or economic activity to a value not exceeding HUF 50,000, also those who attempt to commit these acts commit an offence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The legal authority is therefore in place, and it should only be done now. That is why I am asking you, Mr Secretary of State, when the police intend to enforce the law and when they intend to eliminate the ill-fated conditions and violations of the law linked to the de-shaming. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-04-27-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The description of the situation, I think, is largely correct, and indeed we see a lot of the picture that the Member has spoken of. Spring can be recognized not only from the renewal of nature, but also from the detox. Dismantling is a process of public waste transport in which real-estate owners can no longer make use of waste generated in real-estate buildings and homes, leaving it to the public service provider to transport waste that they can no longer use. [[16.10]] The fact is that detox was initially used by some to meet their own needs from the waste dumps, and then, apparently, to a large extent, it is carried out in a structured way almost selective recycling in the country, not only in large cities, but also in smaller settlements. The conflicts of this period are also regular with the locals, residents and, of course, the public services responsible for demoulding, as one of the main problems is that after the dispersal, dispersal of the waste dumps, the area and the public area are extremely unorganized and impose additional costs on the maintenance of the public area and on the public service provider responsible for demoulding. And it's not necessarily a good condition that prior to the detachment, the companies that are organized for the trash are actually organizing guards to use what they think is theirs. The purpose of the amendment of the law or the law is to have a sanction, to allow this act, this series of actions, to be able to act in the event of an infringement by the court or the authorities, or by the police, to be a truly effective instrument in their hands to be held accountable. However, I think that we can all agree or agree that we are not in a position to put a police officer ahead of any possible and potential crime in the country, and to pre-preserve all places, whether in the case of disposal or in any other case, where a crime may occur. There's obviously no such police apparatus in the world. So this form of prevention, prevention as a form of police, I do not think can be expected. Obviously, the legislation was created and is designed to ensure that law-abiding citizens comply with it, and basically our legal order is based on citizens' compliance with the law. The police act every time they report or report, but once again, there is no possibility for police to stand next to a pile of junk placed in front of every property, and police to protect or guard them by the law of the otherwise obvious needs of society, partly worthless or largely worthless, since the owners have renounced them for free. However, there is a need for the police, with increased patrol, to try to prevent these acts from being repeated on a regular basis. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Szilágyi, if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-04-27-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure that answer can't be accepted by anyone. Mr Secretary, you say that I am right, and you say, as Secretary of State, that the laws in Hungary are to be observed by citizens, but if citizens fail to comply, then the police can do nothing about it. That's ridiculous. The police are supposed to show up there and send these people away in a preventive way, when they know where they're trashing. For example, when it was detoxing on the Joseph Boulevard, you couldn't see a policeman, but if you try to park on the Joseph Boulevard, say, illegally, after five minutes, the police patrol will be there, and you will be punished because it's all on camera. They see through cameras that there are illegal acts committed in this country, violations committed in this country, and you say that the police can't prevent that. What would be the job of the police, if not to ensure the peace of the population, to ensure that people comply with the law? At the moment, the police say you're not fit to do this. Of course I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-106	Thank you. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Mr. Prime Minister! Why don't they want low incomes to at least get fed sometimes? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-04-27-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, We've had a conversation in this House about VAT, and I think there's a new situation. There is a new situation because the government has acknowledged that a product will not be swallowed by traders with such a large volume of VAT; it seems that it will introduce this decision in pigmeat. And there's another situation: you can handle 120 billion in revenue losses by deciding to reduce personal income tax by one percent. I would like to encourage you or persuade you to consider reducing the VAT on other product products rather than cutting the price of 120 billion euros, as it would help the small earners to get along better than, say, leaving a hundred thousand forints a year or eight thousand forints a month on a million HUF salary. They will not consume more, especially from food, for generally everyone knows that every person has one stomach. I think that it is not possible for substitute products to reduce only one product; I am thinking specifically of poultrymeat, which causes very serious market distortion. Such is what is most affected by fraud, milk, liquid milk, fruit and vegetables, where there are huge frauds, and there would be a very serious need to reduce them. I would encourage you - we have presented a proposal in the sixth place, there are about eight product products, it costs about 100 billion - that we should consider this proposal and discuss it, at least to Parliament, because there is another half a year before the tax rules. This has the full support of the profession. I do not think there is any source for this right now, and we can take very serious action against black trafficking. I expect or expect, Prime Minister, that this is what they are trying to do, not try to help us on the sja side. That's why I wrote in the title that it would be good if the little man could feed himself. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would like to ask for an answer to these points. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-27-108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-04-27-109	Mr President, The government will present the budget in the prescribed order and will be able to discuss these issues. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-110	Thank you very much. The congressman shall have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-04-27-111	I think I would expect a little more courage, Prime Minister, just because, in parallel with the budget, the VAT reduction proposal, which I say once again, is not like keeping it closed on Sunday, that there was no impact assessment. We have negotiated the entire agricultural sector and the entire food industry, and everyone will continue to demand it. I'm saying that they're trying to get that stamp off of themselves that it's only because of Lawrence Ripper that the VAT on pork is reduced. I know there's a strong exaggeration in this. He's not a big farmer, but I'm asking you to at least feed him a poultry farm, a foil tent, a milk processing plant or a dairy establishment. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] 'Cause then maybe they'll go through with this case, and we can do what we want to do. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-112	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-04-27-113	Mr President, Indeed, together with the budget, we will also submit tax laws, and there will be a way to discuss this issue. There, too, we will tell the socialists to back off, because in 2004 you first raised your VAT to 15%, in 2006, to 20 percent, and then returned it after the elections. Your self-respect of VAT is two-faced, hypocrite, deceitful, and facial toaster; they want to reduce the kind of VAT that you have raised in the sky. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Coward! Coward!]]
u2015-04-27-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi and Ádám Mirkóczki, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is it in your interest? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi. [[16.20]]
u2015-04-27-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, In recent weeks, the Hungarian Parliament has decided to participate in the mission against the Islamic State in Hungary, and there has been complete agreement that the barbaric aggression that the Islamic State has carried out should be condemned. However, there was no consensus on how and to what extent Hungary should participate in this mission. Caution would have been warranted, since it has now been proven that the United States of America and its allies in the region play a major role in the establishment of the Islamic State and that it has acquired weapons. We have not been answered to our substantive questions here, as you have spoken of an obligation, but there is no legal basis for this mission, nor can we speak of obligations in this sense. We're not sending armed and combat forces, you said. Compared to that, it turns out there's a security detail going to Iraq, an armed unit, and in the event of a conflict, a combat team. They said that we were sending the Hungarian soldiers to the safest part of Iraq, and since then, in Erbíl, there has been a bombing of hell, and not elsewhere than in front of the American consulate. They said that there was no increase in the threat of terrorism in Hungary, however, as soon as you announced that we were sending soldiers, the Islamic State threatened Hungary on Hungarian portals, in Szatmárnemeti the Romanian authorities took down a terrorist organization linked to the Islamic State, and in Bosnia, not far from the Hungarian border, the flag of the Islamic State is hanging. Mr. Prime Minister, What was behind the decision of the Hungarian Government? Why did it take less than a month to decide on such a particular issue? Whose interest is it in Hungary's spending 150 soldiers, 20 billion forints, on such an uncertain mission? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-116	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister in response.
u2015-04-27-117	Mr President, This debate was held by Parliament, the proposal was voted in favour, 70,6 percent of the Members voted in favour, so Members have already given an answer to your question. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-118	Thank you. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Member.
u2015-04-27-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I think that making such a decision on a matter of this particular gravity and then answering such a question is not worthy of the Prime Minister of Hungary, especially when you feel the weight of this decision, because you know that the decision could have been made here for political pressure, because while you are talking about sovereignty, you are making such decisions under American pressure when military officers from America are sending them out to Hungary to participate in such a military mission, so you and your activities are not in a thank-you relationship with a sovereign state. And you can feel the weight of this decision, because you also spoke about the need to launch a national consultation on a specific issue such as Hungarian immigration. Hungary's borders are open, and when we engage in these kinds of activities, there is a terrorist threat in Hungary in the context of immigration. I hope that Prime Minister will take responsibility if anything happens to any Hungarian citizen in our country. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-120	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-04-27-121	Mr President, However, I would like to reiterate the fact that Parliament - not the government, Parliament - has decided that the government has agreed with the decision. The decision was made by Parliament as required by the constitutional rules in Hungary. The case is now closed by Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: å Has the banker's government been re-established? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-04-27-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, For years, the Fidesz choir was all about replacing the banker's government and bringing the public good together with the public money, because they are now also far from each other. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself said that we can't trust money and capital to the government of the country, because they only look at their own benefits. I agree with Prime Minister, but by now, those words are also interesting if they are put in your mouth. The public talk now about Viktor Orbán's visits to Switzerland, his suspicious 16-hour train trips, and the story is about the offshore network near Fidesz, which is registered in Switzerland. More and more people think there's something in Switzerland that you're trying to hide by all means. The Quaestor case, on the other hand, shows that you have nothing against capital, nor against money market tricks, insofar as it serves your own interests, insofar as it creates a favourable position for you. But it also seems that you basically consider Hungary to be a small-time place, the more you pay attention to Switzerland and even Lebanon, known as East Switzerland, about the institution of bank secrets. As known, the representative of a Lebanese bank specialized in billionaires, István Nagy, was appointed Ambassador of Switzerland. This gentleman has no diplomatic record, no qualifications, no public access to his CV, and allegedly has dual citizenship. He is a former board member of the Lebanese Bank Audi, which, by chance, offers private banking services to super-rich people and Arab sheiks in Geneva, and in addition to my information, was also a prime minister's advisor, and was referred to as Mr. Arabia in Fidesz or near Fidesz. I have four questions for Minister. How did István Nagy's extraordinary appointment to the Swiss ambassador benefit, knowing that he had no diplomatic qualifications? What special skills does Mr. Nagy have that gave him the assignment under the nose of experienced and prepared diplomats, professionals, which he is still fulfilling today? Do you really have the nationality of another country, or do you have a valid national security screening?
u2015-04-27-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2015-04-27-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your question, and thank you very much for your patience for keeping this question to me in the last few weeks because of my foreign policy tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I can tell you is that the appointment of ambassadors is based on a clear schedule. The ambassadors shall be heard by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament before their appointment. This was the case with István Nagy, who was appointed according to the legal order. István Nagy is a reputable and qualified diplomat who is capable of representing our country effectively in Switzerland in every respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-126	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-04-27-127	Fidesz's new strategy is interesting, and now they're not talking about their time, so we're also obviously in awkward places. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] It is clear to us - and you can see this from the feedback - that, since you started the policy of opening up the East, and this foreign economic orientation has appeared in foreign policy, the area you own has become completely opaque, foreign policy and foreign economics. You can't even get substantial information on the signature of diplomatic passports from you, except in court. And here, for example, is Mr István Nagy, who you claim to be a very good diplomat, but who has no qualifications, and who refuses to publish his CV. I think, Minister, if you are serious about what you just said in these 30 seconds, you must undertake to at least make the biographies of ambassadors and members of the management of the trading houses fully public. I think that Hungarian people have a right to know who represents them around the world. Will you do this, Minister?
u2015-04-27-128	Thank you very much. The Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-04-27-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have already received a request for Ambassador István Nagy's biography from Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I asked Mr.István Nagy, under the existing laws, if he would agree to give his biography to Mr.Attila Mesterházy. He consented, I did it. As soon as I'm out of here, I'll ask Mr. Ambassador immediately if he agrees to let me send his biography to you; he will certainly answer yes, because I know his biography, he can be proud of it, and he has nothing to hide. Therefore, I believe that the biography of Ambassador István Nagy will be there in an hour for your e-mail. That's all I can do to help you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-130	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister János Lázár, head of the Prime Minister's Office, an immediate question:, Permanently low energy prices, predictable everyday life. How does the National Utility Provider help to maintain the results of the reduction? It's an address. Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2015-04-27-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Back in the 2010 government programme, we formulated the political credo that put the burden of Hungarian families at the centre of our policy, increasing the quality of life and the safety of life. [[16.30]] The government took the first steps by offering several tax reduction options, tax incentives, freeing families from their debt, and such a step was also the reduction of the rent introduced from 1 January 2013. This was an extremely brave and hard step, since the previous free democratic-socialist governments could have taken these steps, especially when the world market price for energy has been steadily decreasing in the last two years of their regency. But they dared not or could not take these steps. As a result, we have started and managed to defend against both internal and external attacks, because the government was able to achieve the reduction not only by two thirds of a majority, but also by supporting 2.5 million people and three times in last year's elections, with significant support from the majority of people. Now with this type of reduction, an economist said that we went up to the wall, so using the official price, if you will, it ended in the field of universal service and we formed the First National Public Service Provider. All you can know about this is that you are already waiting 300 places for transfers in the field of gas services, and by the end of 2015 you can also sign up for electricity and the following year for district heating. I respectfully ask Minister what market instruments, what new tools the First National Public Service Provider will use to help continue the reduction of the overhead and maintain the reduction of the overhead.
u2015-04-27-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-04-27-133	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is indeed a reason for the excitement on the part of my fellow opposition Members, given that we are indeed facing a six-month struggle, at the end of which we hope that we will not only be able to keep the current retail gas and electricity prices, but that the government's explicit aim is to ensure that there will be a further reduction of the overhead in Hungary. The Commission of the European Union is the main obstacle to this right now, by raising in several cases an objection of about 8 points, attacking Hungary, the European Commission believes that the Hungarian State should not favour the population, but favour companies. However, the Hungarian Government will not do this in any way, and we will find a solution that, combined with market and state assets, will allow us not only to maintain the current level of rent, because the government is also dissatisfied with this, and we would like to see additional reductions in rent. In fact, I would also like to extend the reduction of the rent to the corporate sector in order to increase Hungary's competitiveness with the help of energy prices. I would like to point out that the setting up of the First National Public Service Provider, its customer management and the reduction of operating costs, the price of the energy purchased, will make a significant contribution to making the price favourable and fair for all Main Gas customers. I would just like to mention to you that since we took over Main Gas, it has been revealed that thousands of condominiums have been cheated by the General Gas and its former owner, resulting in a 10-15 percent increase in prices alone and a continuous increase in prices. The screening of all Hungarian gas and electric clocks can provide significant lessons. Our claim is that at least 10 percent savings can be achieved in operation, as we claim that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the current nuclear power plant, is essential in order to understand exactly how much, who produces electricity in Hungary, how many people are stealing it, and how cheap electricity can be provided to people in the country instead of stealing it. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-134	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-04-27-135	It is quite clear to people that between 2002 and 2010, or even in terms of privatization times prior to.98, it worked in the field of universal service, with foreign-owned service providers leaving to the energy office, telling us all kinds of data about their costs, and then pushing these costs on people out of the blue. That's why you could raise electricity 15 times and gas 15 times. The gas has tripled by 206 percent between 2002 and 2010. I am very pleased that not only the State, but the First National Public Service Provider, established by the State, will be able to continue to reduce costs by market means - this is where Minister said the cost reduction and the non-recognition of costs - by market means, to increase the safety of Hungarian families, but also to reduce the vulnerability of Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. . Bravo, yells in the same place.]]
u2015-04-27-136	Thank you, Congressman. Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-04-27-137	The socialist faction applauded in the same way when they raised VAT and when the prices of gas and electricity were raised in Hungary. Now we've seen a remodeling of this applause. If I may, I would say to my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, that this will be true if the conditions for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant are met together, which means a completely new management at the current Paks I nuclear power plant. In all 3 million 700,000 households, instead of 800 000 customers of the National Public Service Provider, this universal service provider must be the provider in order to be able to provide at low prices. In addition, an energy efficiency programme should be launched for Hungarian households, not only for apartments built with industrial technology, with EU coverage and through banking programmes. The combined existence of several conditions could result in a further reduction of the rent if there is parliamentary support, and if the socialists do not want to prevent it at all costs, in favour of multinational companies. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Talk about 27 percent VAT! Zoltán Grimlock: 27 percent VAT. It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-138	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, Vice-President, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Will there be a solution to the problem of the Scented Road site of Budapest Chemical Works in Budapest? It's an address. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President, has the floor.
u2015-04-27-139	Mr President, Dear Minister, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! I speak as Parliamentary Representative of Pesterzsébet and Kispest. My constituency is directly bordered by the Scented Road site of the former Budapest Chemical Works, where pollution has now become a nationally known problem. Dear Minister, More than six months ago, at the beginning of October, I asked you a written question, and I would like to quote from this: Mr. Minister! There are tragic conditions in and around this colony. Many barrels containing thousands of dangerous substances are rusty, some of which are constantly leaking dangerous substances into the soil. This situation poses an extraordinary risk in the territory of the capital city. Last week, Minister Ferencváros mayor, who has this establishment in his territory, called a perfectly normal meeting, your Secretary of State for the Environment was there, and I was there. We both heard that concrete promises were made, there was a promise that promised action the next day. Not always for another day, but the next day from the meeting. I would like to ask you, Minister, in the form of an immediate question, whether, since the meeting where concrete promises have been made, any action has been taken. I don't want to stir up a political scandal, I want a solution because people are scared. They're afraid of pollution. I'm asking you, both of you, to handle this. Please describe the solution you see. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-27-140	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-04-27-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure you that there will be a solution to this serious environmental problem. The Hungarian state, the instruments included in environmental legislation, has the storehouse that it can carry out in such a case, it can protect the healthy environment, the people. First of all, however, it must be stated that environmental protection has a general rule, and this is that it is obliged to eliminate pollution on the basis of the polluter-pays principle that it bears the costs to whom it may be charged. In this case, therefore, the Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. is liable, which is currently in liquidation, and the court has not closed the proceedings since 2007. It is one thing that, on the grounds of the lack of financial coverage, the liquidator has still failed to fulfil the tasks required by official decisions on the management, disposal of hazardous waste and the elimination of environmental damage. Here, the environmental inspectorate or our environmental authorities are constantly monitoring this case, if necessary, fined, called upon to deal with this serious environmental problem. [[16.40]] There has also been a criminal report, which is based on a well-founded suspicion of a breach of the system of waste management. So, as I mentioned, the environmental user is obliged to withstand the environmental damage caused by it and to bear the costs of prevention and recovery. Here, however, the respective owner and holder of the territory, i.e. the user, are jointly and severally burdened by this obligation to recover or to compensate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: And where is the solution, Minister? We didn't hear the answer!]]
u2015-04-27-142	Thank you, Minister. I'll give you a return answer.
u2015-04-27-143	Mr President, Dear Minister, I do not doubt the precise description of the legislation, that it has done so, but that the groundwater does not know about it, so that pollution in the soil is washed into a larger area. It's a disaster situation. I am asking you, the Honourable Ministry and the Government, I have heard from your Secretary of State on several occasions that this issue can be resolved in several stages. I believe him. He said that 1.1 billion forints is the cost of transporting these barrels, from which pollution goes into the soil. As a responsible member of the government, as responsible for the substantial budget of a large Ministry, I would like to ask the Minister - and I would ask him very much to give a concrete answer - whether this HUF 1.1 billion is available. It and no one else can reassure the citizens of Ferencváros and Pesterzsébet and Kispest. I'm asking you to answer that in particular. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-144	Thank you very much. The Minister should be rejoined.
u2015-04-27-145	Honourable Congressman, I can give you a concrete answer to a specific question: budget planning for 2016 is under way and the government is planning a draft budget [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: This is a concrete answer!]] prepare and submit to Parliament, which will include the necessary financial resources for 2016 to carry out the tasks of the national environmental remediation programme established to eliminate environmental risks arising from the past. It is also possible to use EU funds for the period 2014-2020. By the way, within the framework of this programme, i.e. the national environmental remediation programme, we have disposed of more than 300 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste, as well as 850,000 cubic metres of contaminated soil and 10 million cubic metres of contaminated soil water. In the framework of this programme, the Hungarian State, the government has spent nearly HUF 20 billion a year on public liability remediation tasks since 2010, adding, of course, that the person who caused the damage must pay in the first place. So the discharge of the territory, the protection of people's health can and will be resolved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: forty patients have one nurse. Do you think that's appropriate? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-04-27-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, The reason I have to turn to you is because the government you run still doesn't seem to understand the point of the problem. The second weekend will be done by nurses in black clothes to warn the whole country, the Ministry, the Prime Minister, but also society, and to draw attention to the unblessed state of their current situation. They warn you and the government that there have been non-deferential health conditions affecting nurses. Such is the lousy nature of working conditions in both physical and personal terms. There is a lack of human resources for nurses; as indicated in the title, there are often 40 patients with a nurse, often a whole night's watch for two classes with two nurses. On the other hand, the number of outliers has also increased, and the rate of emigration has also increased. In addition, caregivers and nursing facilities face a serious lack of tools. The second very important area is the wage crisis. 70 percent of nurses live off the guaranteed minimum wage, which is only 10 percent higher than the minimum wage. The third very important thing is the lack of supplies. The government has assisted in the closure of five medical secondary schools in Budapest, and the system is constantly disappearing, and in ten years nearly 10,000 nurses will be missing. And what the Prime Minister can do at this time and in these matters: he primarily stands before the nurses and apologizes to them that stadium building was more important for him in the last five years, your moving to the Castle and Andy Vajna's cataphoring. On the other hand, at the next government meeting, immediately after the resignation of Sándor Fazekas, he will begin to make additional funds available immediately. Please, Prime Minister, what are you doing in this matter? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How do you help caregivers? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-148	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-04-27-149	Thank you very much for your question and for the good advice. I'm trying to figure out why the Minister of Agriculture has to resign because of the nurses' placement. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But I'm sure we can answer that question. This does not seem to be a thoughtful proposal, but, if you allow me, nurses deserve the respect that we have to deal with their situation in substance, and not only as a political whim, as you have done. So let's see where we are now. First of all, in 2012, before teachers, we launched a wage development, which we continued in 2013. This means that every year since then, healthcare institutions continue to receive HUF 53.4 billion to raise wages, which are still low. With this wage increase, which was carried out in 2012 and 2013, 75 000 health workers' basic salaries increased, the salary increase of graduates exceeded HUF 41 thousand gross per month - which is still very low - and the monthly average salary of health professionals increased by about a quarter between 2011 and 2013 - although still low - and in 2015 we started to settle the situation of general practitioners. As far as supply is concerned, from 2013 we have restarted health and health technical secondary schools, VETs receive state aid and apprenticeships provide practical cooperation with institutions. In the field of medical training, we introduced a new National Training Note, adapted to the needs of the market. We have also launched a training programme for health care professionals, which aims to obtain OKJ training for people with pre-OKJ qualifications. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Time!]] , and HUF 2.2 billion for a career selection and guidance scholarship. I know it's not enough, but it's definitely not negligible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's where we are now. We will continue this work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-04-27-151	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, What he said is far from the truth and far from the solution [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] which may affect this sector. In soccer terms - he understands better - they play a small-time game at county level II, even though a first-class high-speed game is needed for the caretakers' cause. I suggest that both in the care and health care sector, where the buttons are no longer sewn to the coat, but slowly to patients - as was done in obstetric gynecology after a caesarean section - step forward firmly, we expect more from you and the government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-152	Thank you. The Prime Minister shall have a rejoinder.
u2015-04-27-153	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that at the general assembly of the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber, Dr. Gábor Zombor, State Secretary, who received the open letter of the workers, answered the questions raised, we deal with the problems and problems contained in the letter. Over the next five years, we are still committed to increasing the incomes of people working in and out of bed and care; seriously - not the way you asked. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-154	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question: "We are on old roads, but we see new landscapes now that we are in fashion with the title "Bicycle". I give the floor to Congressman Attila Móring József.
u2015-04-27-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The motto of my question is the chorus of the ex-Bike hit by the Express band. In addition to car traffic, more and more people are now choosing two-wheeled transport, bicycle or motorcycle, reducing road congestion and emissions. [[16.50]] Transport, which has become a multi-player, requires greater attention from all participants. One of the main objectives of the national transport infrastructure development strategy adopted last year is the development and promotion of environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as cycling. For the ninth year, the Ministry of National Development has announced applications for cycling-friendly workplaces and cycling-friendly settlements. With recognition, the portfolio encourages local governments, businesses and institutions to make cycling transport safe and attractive for residents, workers and customers by designing the right infrastructure, by creating an approach, since in Hungary, the transport rate of cycling within different modes of transport is 19 percent at national level, which is high above the average of the European Union. Dear Secretary of State, We're on old roads, but we're seeing new landscapes now that the bike is in fashion. I respectfully ask what the government is doing so that we can look at new landscapes not only on the old roads but also on new roads. The development portfolio plans to expand the domestic bicycle path network within a reasonable time. I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-04-27-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the promotion of community-creating cycling and the development of infrastructure conditions in its activities are one of the main objectives of the national transport infrastructure development strategy adopted in 2014. Today, the home bicycle route is about 4,000 kilometres long, which is planned to expand by another 1,000 to 1,500 kilometres by 2020. The complex quality development of the Balaton Cycling Boulevard, the development of the EuroVelo 6 Danube Cycling Road and the construction of the Budapest-Balaton Cycling Route are among the bicycle developments planned to be implemented by EU funds in the period 2014-2020. Within the latter, the implementation of the Budapest-Etyek route is a priority. As in the past EU budget cycle, municipalities and other organisations will have the opportunity to obtain funding for such improvements by way of tenders. We are also planning to reopen the transport operational programme for the financing of previously suspended bicycle routes due to a lack of resources, and in this context we are supporting the development of bicycle routes linked to one, two and three-digit routes. Between 2007 and 2013, the country provided some HUF 60 billion for cycling routes, and the maintenance, operation of these established routes takes time and money. It is in the interests of all of us to preserve and maintain this important means of travel in an appropriate capacity. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The rejoinder shall be given to Mr Attila Móring József, notary.
u2015-04-27-159	Thank you very much. Secretary of State mentioned the bike ride to Balaton. During the last weekend, a record volume of nearly two thousand bikers completed that tour over four different lengths, the most dedicated were rounding the Hungarian sea at 206 kilometers. The aim was to promote a healthy lifestyle and nature conservation with this Balaton Circle. Cyclic development increases economic potential; the aim is to create a secure network of cycling routes that can be built on which companies can develop regional, local routes and cycling tourism. That is what we need, and we are asking for the government's support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-160	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-04-27-161	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I did not mention the community-creating power of the bike movement and its relationship with tourism for a reason, cycling is, to a certain extent, a view of life, a form of community. That is why the Ministry is committed to the campaigns of which the Member has also mentioned. So we supported and participated in European mobility week and car-free day, Earth Day and other campaigns promoting cycling. We will continue to be proponents and proponents of these. I want as many of you involved as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How many mistakes will you tolerate, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-04-27-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, There is at least one minister in your government whose performance, confused affairs and attitude are below all existing minimums. Since Mr. Sándor Fazekas refused to answer my interpellations and my immediate questions in person, I could say that he fled the questions, made two appointments at the Ministry, and did not receive one, and after I visited the Ministry, he also did not invite me to his room and spoke to me about those questions. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I've been wanting to talk to him about for a long time. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I must ask Mr. Prime Minister personally and ask you how long you will hold the hand of the fallen Minister, Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that in the case of Szilárd Kiss, you have an irresistible responsibility for the Minister. At the beginning of the year, this man was arrested in Hungary, but in Russia he has had a final judgment; he sold Schengen visas for money, Szilárd Kiss. Now, when I ask the honourable government what your position is about Mr Kiss, you insist that exports have increased because of Mr Kiss Szilárd, although it is clear that this man has failed twice in national security control. The Ministry casinod 410 million not long ago, when it was said that your clear instructions could not be interpreted, and at Hungária Securities Ltd. almost half a billion forints of taxpayers were applauded. But it's there that you assisted as mayor of Karcag in the Kun-Mediator case, Mr. Marcsi Broker gets an office, Mr. Secretary. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Come on! Dr. Sándor Fazekas: It was 2005, ten years ago.]] So from here on out, I think, Prime Minister, that you must make a clear answer as to how long you intend to hold the Minister's hand, how long you intend to hold him in office. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-164	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-04-27-165	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand that Minister Fazekas is avoiding you, and you resent it, and you resent it, but that is no reason to replace you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-166	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to rejoin me, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-27-167	Mr. Prime Minister, What I do understand, however, is that it is embarrassing for you to answer the opposition questions in front of the Hungarian taxpayers. And I understand you, because I wouldn't hold my back because of a minister like that. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Come on!]] It's a question of why you do it. Why do you think this minister, who should have resigned in connection with the anthrax scandal, knowingly handed over government land leases to someone who bought cattle from here and there, which ended up dead meat, infected with anthrax, and ended up in public catering, but this case was covered up, sitting here, who is responsible for this. Here is the minister who is responsible for Hungary's promise to give land to small farmers, and you have completely changed it and continue to support the great estate. Here sits the minister, in this House, who practically tricked the Hungarian farmers by planting the agricultural chamber on their heads, and thus destroying their self-determination. Here sits the minister who twice did not receive an opposition representative after fleeing Parliament. And he sits here, doesn't keep his head down, and he doesn't resign, because in this country, it can still be done. Mr. Prime Minister, Is that the country you want?
u2015-04-27-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Prime Minister if he wishes to make use of it.
u2015-04-27-169	Returning to your question, after your comment, I see even less of a chance to arrange a meeting with the Minister. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-170	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å What developments in health are expected in the coming years? It's an address. Congresswoman Bene Ildikó has the floor. [[17.00]]
u2015-04-27-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The development of health care, the establishment of a functioning, stable institutional system is in our overall social interest. In recent years we have spent a total of HUF 500 billion on health improvements, of which 170 billion have been allocated to new machines and instruments. Among other things, the old motor vehicle park of the National Rescue Service has been upgraded. Since 2010, more than 300 new ambulances have been acquired. With an EU budget of nearly HUF 11 billion, 22 rescue stations will be built in 18 counties of the country, while 60 existing rescue stations will be upgraded this year. Major progress has also been made in order to increase the number of young doctors working at home. The residency support programme has been available in Hungary since 2011 and has helped to keep more than two thousand young specialists and specialists at home. Scholarships will receive a net fee of HUF 100 thousand per month, provided that they undertake to work in Hungary for a sufficient period of time to pay the scholarship after the exam and do not accept any gratuity money. The aim is also to allow cancer suspects to have an appointment for diagnostic examination within 14 days, thus reducing waiting periods. Dear Secretary of State, The continued development of health care is in the common interest of all of us. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what improvements in health are expected in the coming period. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Gábor Zombor.
u2015-04-27-173	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you said, significant investments are taking place in the country, and which you mentioned, I would add that they will continue in 2016, as it was decided to purchase a hundred new ambulances; it was decided that in the residency scheme the scholarship should cover the entire period of the signed contract, i.e. up to ten years. I would like to inform you that the prevention and treatment of circulatory diseases, diabetes, chronic respiratory and musculo-skeletal diseases and cancer is a priority in the field of public health, to which the government spends HUF 15 billion in the coming years. I would like to mention here that the Government of Hungary will undertake to provide appropriate diagnostic services to all cancer suspects within 14 days. In the area of basic care, we also have a priority, with the introduction of a new legislation, which we hope will also be discussed by Parliament soon, we will finally find a solution to the replacement of the aged GP's faculty and how to make this profession attractive, both financially and professionally, again. This is served by the HUF 10-10 billion amount provided for 2015 and 2016. I will say the rest in the following comment. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bene Ildikó in return.
u2015-04-27-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I believe that we agree that the development of emergency care and the development of basic care are the primary tasks on which further improvements and further improvements in health can take place on a stable basis. I think that this path, which you have outlined, Secretary of State, is very important and good for all of us. The fact that diagnostic tests are carried out in patients suspected of having cancer within 14 days is also a very serious step, since, after diagnostics, rapid patient care can take place with the correct diagnosis. However, I would like to emphasise - and Mr Secretary of State said in his reply - that the role of prevention and screening is extremely important, because in each case we can prevent a great many diseases by increasing the effectiveness of screening, so this is also a very important task. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-176	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-27-177	So I'd like to continue with the upgrades. For the development of child health, the government spends HUF 10 billion on the complete renovation of the nurses' hostels, HUF 15 billion, and the planning costs of the new hospital in Budapest will be included in the budget in the coming year. I would like to inform you that, as Prime Minister said, a HUF 2.2 billion new programme will be launched for nursing students, and a HUF 5 billion programme to reduce waiting lists, whose first three-month results are that the number of people on the waiting list has decreased by more than five thousand, and the waiting time for the most common surgery that is problematic has been reduced by more than 25 percent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Recently, a number of agricultural and agricultural journals have also published the news that I have seen in my last few weeks and days, when farmers and people living in agriculture have reported that the National Chamber of Agriculture, based on the database received from the tax authority in recent years, has calculated membership fees... - I am sorry. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: No!]] The membership fees to which they are required by the National Chamber of Agriculture have been re-calculated for 2013 and 2014, based on the database received from the tax authority, as I mentioned, and it is not enough that these membership fees have been re-calculated, but even a difference, and they have also been required to pay a premium of 50% of the membership fee difference established for 2014. The situation has revealed a number of problems, since membership fees are based not only on income from agricultural activity but also on the total annual income of the farmer. It is likely that the membership fee will be fixed after the total revenue, but this is in itself unfair, as the difference in interpretation relating to the membership fee fund established the membership fees paid by the farmers, which are limited to the agricultural activity alone. We naturally believe that this is not a good practice, and this is not good, so I would ask the honourable Minister whether he agrees with the national Chamber of Agriculture's collection practices, whether he agrees that farmers will be punished and that they will be obliged to pay a 50% replacement fee, because, as I said, it is not always the case that a farmer's activity covers only the income from his agricultural activities. That is why I ask you, Minister, whether you and your wallet agree with this collection exercise. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-180	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-04-27-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have listened with interest to your question, whose timidity clearly shows that you really have no idea about this problem or this suggestion. But I am happy to inform you and those who are concerned, because this is an appropriate and excellent opportunity. Dear Parliament, We are well aware that the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy was established in 2013, bringing together all players in the sector. So we can say that it has about 300,000 members, much more than the predecessor of the agricultural chamber. The problem raised by you has been corrected by the Chamber of Agriculture under the amendment of the statutes. [[17.10]] Thus, in the case of members whose turnover from agricultural activity is below 20%, in the case of a separate application 25%, the payment of membership fees will be based only on the turnover from the agricultural activity. Members paying excise duties may deduct from the total net turnover the amount of excise duty which they have not reimbursed or which is not refunded to them. So we're talking about a separation problem, which is due to the fact that there are obviously agricultural enterprises, family farms that are exclusively engaged in agricultural production, while there are other profiles, other activities, but the cut-off was solved and done by the Chamber. It includes providing, unlike the former Chamber of Agriculture, representation to members, participation in conferences to strengthen competitiveness, training, 90 training courses, 9400 certificates of origin, assessing the VAT reduction of live and half-carcases [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it also operates the rural farming network. [[The president's ringing again.]] So he uses in the interests of farmers the membership fees they pay. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-27-182	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-04-27-183	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I did not wish to put you in the crossfire of political attacks, because I believe that you have had enough of this House, I would add, quite rightly, but this is now on another page. The Prime Minister protects you, and I accept that. However, I refuse to hear you say that I was talking nonsense. I have faced this issue several times, and several farmers have contacted us on this matter, which is why I have tried to bring the issue into the walls of this House. And by the way, you're saying that there are about 300,000 members of the National Chamber of Agriculture. Yes, because you have made membership mandatory and you say that this Chamber of Agriculture is in service. Yes, he is. Moreover, the members of the Chamber of Agriculture note that they do not understand why, let's say, from their membership of the Chamber of Agricultural Economy, they have to pay such high official fees, why car rentals and office leases that the National Chamber of Agriculture has to be carried out. That's why I asked you if you would agree with this membership fee exercise and this fine, because now farmers are being fined, and they want to pull another skin off of them. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-184	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-04-27-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The Member must have missed the fact that I gave him the information regarding the membership fee. If any member of the Chamber considers it to be unfair, he can receive adequate information and fair administration directly from the village farmers, through the chamber officials. Honourable Congressman, I understand that you were much more sympathetic to the Chamber of Agriculture organised by the MSZP, in which there were about 10,000 members, and tried to take over the interests of Hungarian farmers, the representation of Hungarian agriculture. Compared to this, we are thinking in a Chamber that brings together the entire agriculture and the majority of the food economy and is able to enforce the interests of the Hungarian countryside and Hungarian producers with sufficient weight. That is why it is important that this Chamber maintains the committees that protect farmers from speculators. So he's doing a job that's in the interest of farmers. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-27-186	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: how did 20 become 27? What would mean a real reduction in the burden for Hungarian families? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2015-04-27-187	Mr President, Dear House, The Prime Minister pointed out aptly this day that governments in various compositions, called socialists, did indeed perform such tricks with VAT that, in the end, we could talk about a 25% VAT content, and then, in an election year, it was temporarily reduced, but later it was raised back to the previous 25 percent level. We can say that even in 2009, some of the then Fidesz representatives rightly came up with initiatives and ideas that should actually reduce the VAT content, but since then it has been five years. Over the five years, we can talk about a European Union record, 27 per cent VAT. This is what the poorest Hungarian population faces today. We can say that this 27 percent is indeed the engine of the black economy. Therefore, it is legitimate to talk about the intention to reduce personal income tax, and to discuss similar plans in substance, but we must see that, as long as this EU record and black economy VAT rate remains in place, it is only possible to cosmetics all other factors at system level. Jobbik has therefore put a proposal on the table that provides a 5% VAT content in almost all basic foods, while, as I have already reminded the Prime Minister, with several of my fellow political groups, Hungary is not one of the most serious, but its most serious problem is population loss, which is why we are calling for the VAT reduction of the items needed to raise children to be reduced to 5 percent. It can be said, therefore, that this basic need seems to be a bit contrary to the fact that the courage of the Fidesz-KDNP now extends only to the extent that it reduces the VAT content of pig meat to 5%. So the question is whether there is courage in the government at this level, in the light of the processes of the near future, in order to really reduce the burden of all Hungarian citizens to this extent and along Jobbik's direction. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-188	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-04-27-189	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This debate has been held several times. I have a brief answer for you. Our approach is to tax not work, but consumption. We need revenue, we need taxes - the question is what we tax. The correct answer to this question will be to put the objective of taxation in the right way. The situation in Hungary is that the greatest threat to us is unemployment. Unemployment was around 12 percent when we took over the country in 2010, it is now around 7 percent, and we want to achieve full employment by the end of the cycle, so we want to bring unemployment to or below 3 percent. This requires that we do not tax the work. We convince people that it makes sense to work. It is contrary to what you say, so I cannot accept your proposal. If you submit it to the tax laws debate, we will also thoroughly study your proposal. But I would like to point out that we do not wish to deviate from the personal income tax reduction. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-190	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2015-04-27-191	I would like to point out to the Prime Minister that we have tabled this proposal, so it will be possible to discuss this in substance in the near future. But full employment is indeed a noble goal, and I support it myself. However, it is not at the cost of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers finding their way abroad, and of the number of people left at home, to fill the number of jobs that have fallen in many cases and in many regions. It can therefore be said that, while the price of bread has increased by 10 to 20 percent in recent years, poultry products have increased by 13 to 15 percent, with substantial or negligible inflation, we see that our non-selective intervention tool could only reduce the VAT content of basic foods and child rearing products. Only this miracle weapon is capable of creating a substantial shift in these areas by affecting all social classes and to an almost similar extent. Therefore, the difference in spirit courage between us may be shown by the fact that we would not stop along the way of reducing the VAT on pig meat. Let us therefore encourage the same in the whole range of basic foods. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If we realize that Hungary's biggest problem is tragic population loss, then yes [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] It is your duty to give you a meaningful opinion on the VAT content of the articles needed to raise children (The President is ringing again. ) as well. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-192	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-04-27-193	Whether the difference between us is in spirit courage or higher, I can't tell you right now, however, what other thoughts are warmed up in our bosoms than you do. Support for families with children is extremely important, so you will see that when Parliament begins to debate tax laws, we will significantly increase tax relief for families with two children, by 20-25 percent each year, and by 2018-19 we will increase tax relief for families with two children per child. That's what I call demographic politics. You didn't show us a thin slice of truth here, because when you want to reduce VAT, we all know that after the country has to operate, they're actually trying to raise personal income tax. The truth is, Jobbik wants to raise personal income tax. We don't accept that. We want to reduce taxes on work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.20]]
u2015-04-27-194	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, With this last immediate question and reply, this item has been completed. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break before the sequel. (Sunning: 17.21-17.23) President: Sándor LezsákJournalists: Dezső Believer and Dr. István Tiba)
u2015-04-27-195	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/3029 on the amendment of certain laws in order to provide the guarantees necessary for the award of grants and other individual decisions in a fair trial. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. [[Noise.]] I don't want to disturb those who talk, I'm sorry, I'll wait for you with great patience. Thank you very much. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. The Jobbik Group... I'm sorry. First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. It's a matter of speaking to Mr. Bell.
u2015-04-27-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Public Opinion, It is well characterized by the impact of the fight against corruption on the pro-government representatives, since the government side of the horseshoe was virtually empty at this point in Parliament, and on the part of the government, there is no government representative, not a secretary of state, nor a minister in the Chamber, as they are obviously the fight against corruption... [[Dr. István Nagy enters the Chamber.]] Mr Secretary of State came into the courtroom, and now a secretary of state is personally involved in presenting this proposal. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not anymore, because he's on the phone.]] He's on the phone. [[Complaining in the lines of the MSZP, calling the others... the president's ringing.]] So, by the end of 2014, by 2015 systemic corruption caused so much dissatisfaction in the Hungarian population that protests and protests became more and more systematic not only in the capital, but also regularly in rural areas, in rural settlements, where, if someone listened, he could see that not only the corruption itself was brought to the attention of speakers and protesters, but also that the state's law enforcement agencies - even the prosecution's office here - did not pursue corruption, but were practically interested in covering up matters, and public confidence was so shaken that it was clear that something had to be done to tackle this systemic corruption and restore public confidence. Accordingly, the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted an anti-corruption package, in which the primary objective is to create transparency, to strengthen civilian control, to lay down guarantees for fair procedures, and to formulate immediate and serious legal consequences if someone fails to comply with them. Therefore, in order to combat corruption, we have put forward proposals by means of normative regulation for the following purposes. The first is transparency, raising the public - that is what this proposal is about - but this package includes the creation of effective forms of control, we want to provide stronger tools for this; we want to ensure freedom from influence by tightening the rules on conflicts of interest, and we want to increase accountability. The majority of the Governor Fidesz-KDNP started the 2010-2014 parliamentary term by abolishing the application in a number of areas of law, then continued by legislating corruption, and then brought dozens of rules of specific interest to the House and voted for it. If we look only at EU subsidies or the exploitation of national wealth - I am thinking primarily of land affairs, but I could even mention concession procurement issues - then we can see that the government is in a pathetic situation, suspended from EU funds, and that the exploitation of land is practically a synonym for corruption. Therefore, if you like, the Socialist Party's proposal is also a lifeline for the governing party, the government, because our proposals would also eliminate the possibility of corruption from the tendering system. As I said, the primary goal is to create the public, and on the other hand, to install brakes in the event of unlawful behaviour. We would therefore like to ensure that the tender documentation is fully available for all applications, i.e. the content of the text of both the winning and the losing proposals should be available, detailed evaluations should be available, and these data should be automatically published on the websites. If a person fails to comply with the obligation to publish, i.e. this is not the case, it must entail that the tender becomes invalid immediately, the contract cannot be concluded and ultimately the contract must be voided. This is also important because, in disputes, the possibility of being sanctioned at a later stage, these are important preconditions, and it is also important that, if a later settlement takes place, those who have acted unfairly in the case of these proposals will be accountable later in accordance with these transparency rules, by providing these conditions. And obviously it wouldn't happen what we've seen in the fields. As we have seen today, Secretary of State Bitay is simply coming to the House. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and tell the Parliament and the public lies that could be disproved in detail if there were time to do so, but in the five-minute presentation, I cannot go into more detail about this, so I would just ask you to support the Socialist Party's proposal during the debate. Thank you very much. [[17 .30]]
u2015-04-27-197	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the spokesperson, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP group.
u2015-04-27-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, we are in favour of inclusion in the series, and we would probably vote in favour of this proposal in the final vote. It is a special pleasure to see a proposal that has been submitted to this House on several occasions over the past four years, of course, in a larger scale, but also by the LMP. There is so much joy in it that the national party would have had the opportunity to implement these rules in eight years of government. It could have been because the previous development cycles were noisy because development money did not serve the development of the country, but at the very least boosted the market. An anti-corruption package, which LMP had already submitted to Parliament months ago, consists of three main elements. One is that the sub-contracting network is fully transparent in both public procurement and EU development. Secondly, in decisive terms with what my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, has just said, that the conditions of validity for municipal, state-owned property exploitation, public procurement, development contracts, as well as for concession contracts, should be that all competitive offers and tender documents should be transparent in their entirety after the expiry of the deadline for submission. The third element, on the other hand, is that the offshore knights must be swept out of the country. The LMP has already proposed, on several occasions, that offshore companies should be banished from both the EU's development and public procurement sources and from the area of public and municipal asset management. It is an offshore company whose ownership structure is not transparent, but it is also an offshore company, which has been described in one of the known tax havens, from A to O, owned by Anguilla to Vanuatu, as was the case, for example, in the case of Eiffel Palace, where György Matolcsy transferred the profits of the central bank instead of the foreign exchange loan victims. This is the main element [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] an anti-corruption package: clean the offshore riders, make applications and the sub-contracting net transparent. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-199	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[For signal:]] On the part of MSZP, Gergely Bárándy in two minutes.
u2015-04-27-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, understanding that an opposition party not yet in the government must say that the governments before it have also stolen, we would like to thank Mr András Schiffer for his support for the bill. I would like to point out, as my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, that what we are discussing before the Parliament, on the one hand, is part of a package of proposals consisting of three previous legislative proposals. It is perhaps the most important part of that, and that is why we asked for it in plenary. We are talking about the public, because today all the organisations dealing with corruption, whether civil society or otherwise, agree that the most serious antidote to corruption is the full public. That's what we want to create here. So a proposal to put it simply cannot be valid, in other words it must be considered null and void, the publicity of which has not been created. This would make the winner of the contest interested, and the loser, of course, to make it public, because otherwise, the tender that he won or lost will, of course, be void. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I need to describe the significance of these proposals before the Parliament today. There may have been corruption cases in the past in governments of different colours, but there has been no precedent for a full state operation based on institutionalized state corruption. Unfortunately, it's now. From 2010 we see signs of this and we see the result of this. And when a Member sees this, it is his duty to do something about it. This is the purpose of our proposal. I think that this is one of the most important issues in Hungary: this proposal serves transparency and non-corruption. Please support him. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-201	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker on behalf of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner.
u2015-04-27-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, For Hungary, corruption is estimated to damage an average of HUF 400 billion per year. So this is a major injury that not only increases public procurement, for example, but also ensures that today's Hungarian entrepreneurial society is contrasted, because very often only companies who have good political relations, especially in the public and municipal sectors, and not otherwise competitive companies, can receive orders. It is therefore very important that we fight corruption not only because of the priority of harm, but also because of secondary harm and the contrasting of entrepreneurship. It is important to see that Jobbik has done everything in its power to fill the laws with content, because every law is worth as much as it is enforced. For example, we have revealed that although it is not possible to provide public and municipal support to offshore companies, it would not be possible to pay EU funds, yet we have found 74 offshore companies with my colleague György Szilágyi, to whom the government paid HUF 21 billion during Viktor Orbán's Prime Minister's term. And unfortunately, we also recently discovered 53 municipalities where one family company wrote the tender, the other one wrote it, and the third family company won the tender. In these cases, it would not have been possible legally to do so, but they did. However, it is regrettable that, in addition to the LMP, when we actually had to vote on this in Parliament and fight corruption, only one of the parliamentary parties did not stand on Jobbik's side, although with these steps we could have done for Hungary without corruption. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll see if anyone else wants to talk to him. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Harangozó on István Gábor's signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Bell.
u2015-04-27-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your supporting contributions. I think that this is a really important proposal, and I must also acknowledge that this is not the first time that this is coming before this House, because indeed, as my fellow Member Schiffer has said, the LMP has had similar or related proposals, which also wanted to strengthen transparency. Jobbik also had such proposals, and they approached this question more from the point of view of criminal law. We have now presented legislative proposals in a package of proposals in a complex way covering all areas of the topic, namely corruption, and we have asked for the inclusion of this proposal. I deeply agree - both opposition parties have raised this issue - that if we want to stop corruption, we also have to take action against the offshore, as huge money disappears in offshore-based money-disposal schemes. I also consider it an equally important issue when it comes to combating corruption, so that at least the VAT on basic foods can be reduced to 5%, since it would also be possible to eliminate corruption from the system in this area. By the way, I think it is a key issue to also clean up the agricultural economy from corruption. Here, not only in the matter of VAT, but also in the matter of the earth, we must eliminate the corruption that is strangling the countryside today. This would be a good opportunity for some to become transparent, for example, in relation to land contest cases, and not by individual representatives of Kehi's secret reports, to learn from insights or prosecution decisions how the land is actually being stolen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but it would become public, thereby preventing the filth that is taking place in the field today. [[Nándor Gúr: That's right!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-27-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the national introduction of a social card and voucher and a cash substitute instrument H/4071. a proposal for a decision with a serial number to be included in the series of items. [[17.40]] The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Who's gonna be the pointer, I'm asking. Mr President Novak has the floor within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-04-27-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The first half of 2015 is one of the six most important better proposals we have here, since the factions can only ask for six proposals every six months, which could be at least before the plenary session. There is only room for a brief debate, a two-minute manifestation per faction, but this is what we consider to be the national introduction of the six most important ones, the social card. Let us say this, after the Minister of State for Social Affairs and Social Inclusion, Charles Czibere, in response to a better question at the hearing of a Committee on Social Welfare, said that the government was not planning to introduce this, and we submitted our proposal for a resolution on this the next day, demonstrating the usual rightful impact. I mean, it's been going on for so long, so long, we can't wait any longer. That is why we are confident that, if, unfortunately, the Committee on Welfare voted against this proposal, so to speak, to include it in the inventory, we hope that there are some Members in plenary who dare to say that this should be dealt with in some form. I am very pleased that Péter Harrach and Márius Révész supported the proposal on a principled basis, unfortunately they did not reach a vote of support. We've gotten used to this, they don't dare to say that Jobbik's problem doesn't exist, so it started, doesn't Jobbik's story, they now say that the problem exists, but the solution we offer is not right. Now, let's see what other suggestions we have. Well, please, there's nothing on the agenda, let alone on the agenda, but not on the schedule. That is why Jobbik would like at least the Parliament to include the proposal in a series of subjects, and sooner or later to put it on the agenda, for which any changes could be made by submitting amendments. However, the current government, and unfortunately the other opposition parties, seem to have no intention of doing so at all, but rather sweeping the problem under the rug. However, Jobbik's aim is to establish a transparent, fair, targeted aid system based on the principle of necessity, while the current aid scheme does not meet these conditions at all. For example, it is important that family support is actually given to those in need, and that it can really be used for the needs of the family, the child, in the spirit of solidarity and fair redistribution. However, the great disadvantage of the current system is that in many cases the aid is not spent on food, clothing or housing, but on pleasure articles or directly in the hands of loan sharks. That is why we arrived there in the first half of 2015 to say that Jobbik Hungary's Movement became the sole savior of decent Gypsy people. [[László Teleki: Wow!]] Even I have to get used to that idea, even I have to get used to it, but we got here. Because loan shark crime is not only typically a type of Gypsy crime, but it also typically affects Gypsies. [[Teleki: How decent you are!]] And Jobbik alone would like, for example, to reduce loan shark crime by not saying that it is impossible by introducing a social card, because there is always a way to find loopholes, but always to walk one way in front of criminals, and therefore we say that it does make abuse more difficult. It is certainly a better way than what we have heard from a representative of Fidesz on the grounds of the People's Welfare Committee, that we should talk more about benefits in kind. It's a XIX, benevolent XX. It is a century-old method, which - of course, we leave the ticket system to the socialists, but we believe in an independent, livable, proud Hungary where, let's say, you can choose between products with a social card. In the modern form of an electronic voucher, a credit card, you can view this as actually a way to buy only certain products, but you can choose. We leave the freedom of choice, you can't disperse rations and start it so easily. In addition, the introduction of a social card could, of course, be an opportunity to boost the local economy if it could be used, let us say, to purchase local retailers and, in particular, local products. We would regulate that the card should be nameless, non-transferable, non-cashable, and that card could not be used to withdraw cash. It should be stipulated that the social card offers the opportunity to purchase food, clothing, teaching materials and medicines, in particular, and can be used to offset housing costs. However, it should be prohibited to purchase excise goods with the social card. This practice must be put to an end, and this is the main reason for introducing a social card, that, unfortunately, it is a common practice today that, for example, family support funds are used at all not for children, but for educational purposes, but in many cases for the pleasure needs of parents, if any. In many cases, it is an addiction, but then it should be the responsibility of health care and other bodies, but the purpose of aid is different. That is why we are asking for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, Mr Sándor Kovács, from the Fidesz Group, asked for the floor in writing.
u2015-04-27-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Group, The committee and myself did not support the proposal at the committee meeting either, since we are talking about two things. I then asked Jobbik to name the form of relief for which he wanted to introduce the card, because the social benefit system that came into force from March changed the dedicated source of the municipalities and not named it, but called it municipal aid and support. There, it does not exclude the possibility for local authorities, to which my fellow Member has referred, that the local economy, locally purchased food, should leave the possibility of cooperating with local shopkeepers open. So I think that you can find your place in the area of local government aid and municipal aid. In addition, as of 1 March, the so-called "fht' substitute for employment has been put into the district offices, which is used to the greatest extent by the unemployed. This, I think, would be an unjustified burden on district offices, since these people are included in or out of the public employment system on a rotational basis, and since government assistance through work and public employment are the primary priority in this category, in addition to market access and market access, I think that there is no justification. If you look at the other benefits that we give at the district office from the state guarantee fund, this is, for example, one of the benefits in kind, the public health certificate, because there is a credit card system already in place. But I think that in the other two cases, in the elderly's allowance and in the care fee, it would be unworthy of the wage-related benefits of those people that we provide in cash. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2015-04-27-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-27-210	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Jobbik from time to time warms up its proposal for the carding of social benefits, while it is an inadequate tool to deal with their problems of poverty, the deprivation, vulnerability and poverty. The social card is an inadequate measure to achieve that objective, expensive and child-infant. It is pointless, because in recent years the government has dismantled the social network and cash benefits to such an extent that further restrictions on their use are pointless, anti-poor measures. After that, the Jobbik want to continue to destroy the poor. The social card has not provided a solution to the goal of the card, addiction, and usury crime anywhere in the world. Passion sickness should be treated with special health and social services and official action against usury should be strengthened. The social card is expensive and red tape-enhancing from both the state and the users. The construction, installation, maintenance and constant control of the system would mean a great deal of unnecessary expenditure for the State. It would also increase the cost of living for those affected because, for example, they would not be able to buy on the market. Finally, the cash substitute would make her underage, stigmatize her users. It would strengthen the prejudice that aid workers drink money and neglect their families and children, even though this is not the case, starting with 62 percent of those who receive aid already living in a childless household. [[17.50]] Instead, the LMP seeks solutions to the challenge of extreme poverty where we can address the root causes of problems. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-27-211	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, a member of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-27-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In addition to what my former colleague Novák said, the point of this proposal is what we said in the debate on the amendment of the Elisabeth voucher. Even then, we suggested that the Elizabeth voucher be given in the form of various benefits. At the time, this proposal was wiped out, but life proved that despite giving a lot of benefits in Erzsébet's vouchers, abuses and scamming the system could not be eliminated. The only option is to receive these benefits by name. The social card is the most verifiable form of this. It doesn't matter what kind of relief system there is, what municipal support is and what is assigned by the district government office. However, this does not justify not introducing the social card, it is a completely different subject. This is about giving certain benefits, especially for children, not in cash, not in vouchers, but in a social card, so that we can eliminate abuse and the benefits that society pays from taxpayers' forints can be given in a targeted way and can be checked to see whether it is spent or not in accordance with the particular objective. This is not an underage of beneficiaries and beneficiaries of benefits, but, in fact, the introduction of social control. I would say that if I were a father and a family man in a situation where there was an allowance that I would receive in this form, I would not feel stigmatized, but I would feel assured that what I get from the state, and what many other people from the state have been given, will be spent on what we have received, what they have received, and that this is precisely what we want to achieve with the social care system in reintegration, child rearing, or other purposes. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-213	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs from the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-04-27-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to start by saying that I'm categorically rejecting the racist line that your predecessor Novak started in his introductory sentences. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] My dear friends, every sociological study proves that poor people spend every penny on their children first, buy food for children before anything else, buy warm clothes before anything else. Every sociological measurement proves that. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's yours!]] The idea you're talking about doesn't solve much of the problems, because, my dear friends, if you're suggesting that social transfers are not for bread or food, but for gaming machines, I respectfully inform you that poor people don't go to fancy casinos. These people don't carry their money into a toy machine, they're happy to buy bread and milk on it. [[There's a constant murmur in Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: They don't smoke!]]
u2015-04-27-215	Go on, Congressman. [[Lajos Korózs: Thank you very much.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-04-27-216	I don't think there's any need to be any more of this. It's nothing but the fact that there's a racist couple here. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] He comes here with a fascist text, and the whole proposal is all about the punitive populism that has been put into a certain layer of Hungarian society for years, who are willing to accept from you the nonsense that they are spreading in Parliament. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] We're categorically refusing, and we're not gonna support it.
u2015-04-27-217	Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to respond calmly to what has been said. Congressman Novak Foreman!
u2015-04-27-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As regards the comments made by Fidesz, the fact that this could in principle work at municipal level is true if the municipalities were not so bled out. However, the principle of economies of scale requires that such a social card be introduced nationally. The most painful thing for me was the attitude of the LMP. I do not use cheap means to draw parallels with the SZDSZ, but unfortunately, in this respect they still seem to be on the path the liberal SZDSZ has been on, because the idea that they would like to create the possibility of spending aid on whatever they want is unacceptable. It is true that most aid recipients are childless, but not only family support money, but also, in our view, other aid can not be used for excise products, particularly alcohol and cigarettes. This should be interrupted, since aid is not provided by a welfare state for entertainment, not for luxury goods, pleasure products, but for basically some kind of survival. That's why I'm hoping you can break up with this LMP and rethink it, and you don't want to get stuck at the level of a 5-percent party. The market can be used of course, it may not be a credit card, but a voucher, which is already included in the title of the proposal, as it is included in the title of our proposal, which can be paid on the market. And it does not require any particular comment that Lajos Korózs of MSZP, and that as a former secretary of state - which is more painful - was not capable of any professional criticism, this was merely an opportunity for cheap racistism and fascistism, although this proposal is absolutely not about this, and of course there was no racist expression. That's very cheap, and that's a long way off. Therefore, I would like to ask you to read at least this two-page proposal on the next occasion and to make a substantive criticism of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-219	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, it is up to the Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank accounts and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Self-motion by Gergely Gulyás, Roland Mengyi, Bence Tuzson, Fidesz MEPs Vas Imre T-4287. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/4287/3. and T/4287/4. was given to them. T/4287/6. and the summary report is T/4287/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, who is the rapporteur of the committee, in no more than eight minutes.
u2015-04-27-220	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 23 April 2015 the Legislative Committee discussed T/4287. The Commission presented a bill amending the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank accounts and a draft amendment and a summary report summing up 26 yes and 6 sexes. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the amendment to point 9 of this amendment by the Committee on Legislative Affairs shall be included in the proposed amendment. The summary amending proposal shall specify, inter alia, who of the holders of the copy may challenge the clearance and the time limit within which the copy holder may request the issue of the copy. It makes it clear that the clearance shall be deemed to have been served in respect of the person entitled to the copy and at the time at which it is deemed to have been served to the consignee indicated in the accounts, so that the fact and date of issue of the copy does not alter the time limit for lodging the complaint. [[18.00]] In one case, there is an exception contained in the transitional provision. The amendment also includes a transitional provision in the Accounting Act, in view of the fact that there may be cases where the person entitled to challenge the settlement was not included in the accounts as the addressee, where the 30-day deadline has already started or expired at the date of entry into force of the bill. However, in the light of the new rules, it is also necessary to ensure that the person entitled to challenge the accounts did not appear on the accounts. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, like the Act of Settlement, it is necessary to provide an authorisation clause for forms to be used in civil non-court proceedings in the case of a review of the Forinting Act. I hope that the proposal before us will prevent any abuse and that the banks will not be able to avoid accountability that results from their unfair conduct. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-221	Welcome. We'll get back to work. Now, before giving the minority opinion, I would give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr László Salacz, if he hadn't already said what had to be said to him. Thus, Member Bertalan Tóth will give the minority opinion, which we have not yet heard. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Yes, the Hungarian Socialist Party also hopes that there will not be a financial institution that can avoid bank accountability on the basis of the law adopted by the Curia's decision. Although it indicates that we are now discussing a bill, an amendment proposal, which would have been good if it had been in the basic law, not in that Fundamental Law, but in the accounting law previously submitted. Thus, it would not have allowed certain financial institutions to avoid accounting and this amendment would not have been brought before Parliament. There was no vehemens debate in the Legislative Committee, because, as I said in the general debate, the Socialist Party will support the adoption of the bill. On the other hand, we asked for a separate vote in the Legislative Committee on one point, which is point 8 of the Committee's background, because we believe it contains a restrictive provision that it would apply only the rules on a more favourable time-limit in the case of mortgaged consumer loans, because it is justified to limit this circle in the light of the expected rules on family bankruptcy protection. However, it is only a matter of waiting, for a long time now, because the Hungarian Socialist Party has repeatedly submitted to Parliament the introduction of a private failure institution. There have been promises here from the KDNP that there will be such legislation, but when exactly this will come before this House, when we can negotiate it, when Parliament will be able to accept it, we still cannot. Therefore, we have not been able to support this amendment, and we abstained on this summarised amendment. But as I said, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-223	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to speak now. By the way, you have 10 minutes, and you will be able to use these 10 minutes at the end of the debate. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. During the debate, I will inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. The first of the speakers to be registered is Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We now have a bill amending the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank accounts. The Economic Committee shall be T/4287/3. The Commission tabled an amendment to the proposal, which was supplemented by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 23 April, and was thus born in T/4287/6. I would like to make a brief presentation of the content of which I would like to present to you. Before I go to the amendments, allow me to remind you that the aim of the proposal was to specifically name, on the basis of the practical experience of the past period, the types of conduct that underpin the monitoring procedure of the Hungarian National Bank. This is because, where appropriate, they do not comply with the provisions of the Accounting Act and may affect a large number of consumers. In addition, the aim is to have appropriate detailed rules for the discussion of the accounts. The bill also makes the procedure of the Financial Reconciliation Board and the proceedings of the Court more effective by clarifying or supplementing the procedural rules, thus avoiding any difficulties in interpreting in practice. I would now like to briefly mention certain points in the summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee. Points 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 11 contain purely codification and grammatical specifications, so they would not be mentioned separately. Point 2 specifies who is entitled to challenge the accounts among the holders of a copy of the document containing the accounts and the time limit within which the copy holder may request the issue of the copy. The amendment also makes it clear that the clearance shall also be deemed to have been served in respect of the person entitled to the copy at the time when it is deemed to have been served to the consignee indicated in the accounts. The proposal therefore clarifies that the fact and date of issue of the copy does not alter the deadline for lodging the complaint. There is only one exception to this, which my fellow Member, László Salacz, mentioned earlier, and which is also included in the transitional provision under point 10. The reason for the amendment under points 8 and 9 is that, in view of the likely regulation of family bankruptcy protection, it is appropriate to limit the provision in any way to mortgage lending contracts. The amendments under point 9 of the draft amending proposal are intended to clarify point 9 of the Commission's proposal for a detailed debate adopted by the Economic Committee. The bill is 43/A. Article 4a of the 2014 Act on Rules of Settlement and Certain Other Provisions of the Accounting Act. It complements Chapter 19 of Law No 19. The chapter provides for the application of the rules of the Government Decree governing the sale of pawnshops outside the judicial execution of the law, and accordingly the 2014 XXXVIII. Law 18 It refers to this procedure, which is governed by Article 4 (1) of the Treaty. In view of this, the procedures governed by this Act are subject to specific provisions and not to enforcement procedures. Paragraph 10 introduces a transitional provision in the Accounting Act, in view of the fact that there may be cases where, in the case of a person entitled to challenge settlement, the 30-day period has already started or even expired at the date of entry into force of the Act. In the light of the new rules, it is therefore necessary to ensure that the person entitled to challenge the accounts, who was not the addressee of the accounts, can also make use of the possibility of submitting a complaint. Finally, in point 12, the amendment of the Forinting Act is necessary because it does not declare that the measures included in it, such as the process of currency non-modification or the detailed rules for the preparation of contracts, constitute a consumer protection measure. This is why the proposal also strengthens the supervisory, consumer and control powers of the Hungarian National Bank. This point also amends the provisions on the liabilities of financial institutions regarding the remaining maturity of the loan contract. [[18.10]] The change states that the amendment of the contract does not need to be included in a new notary, but that measures relating to the enforcement of claims arising from the modified contract can be taken on the basis of previous notaries, but only in the light of the changed maturity. In addition, the proposal states that, following the amendment of the loan agreement initiated by the consumer during the preferential period provided for in the Exchange Rate Act, the contract will not be modified after the preferential period. The Forinting Act applies the review procedure laid down in the Accounting Act in the case of disputes arising. As with the Act of Settlement, it is necessary to provide an authorisation clause for forms to be used in civil non-court proceedings in the case of a review of the Forinting Act. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above comments, I respectfully ask you to support the Commission's report and the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to point out, as I have done in the drafting of the minority opinion, that it is possible to abuse the provisions of a law if the law had given me the opportunity to do so, because it would have been better to submit to Parliament legislation that does not give financial institutions the opportunity to avoid and circumvent any of its rules, but at least there is this amending proposal, including clarification and technical amendments, which might have excluded financial institutions from the possibility of complying with their clearing obligations. I would like to highlight two things in the final debate on the bill. One of the things I resented in the general debate is that it precludes the possibility for the court to establish the correct settlement. The court may examine only whether the clearance of the financial institution or the decision of the conciliation body complies with the law and, if the court so determines, the clearance of the financial institution is appropriate, rejects the application, and if it finds that the financial institution has infringed the law, it shall repeal the decision of the conciliation body and oblige the financial institution to make a new settlement. The other thing that could obviously be welcomed in a normal state and in a normal financial situation is the expansion of the powers of the Hungarian National Bank, since the Hungarian National Bank receives additional consumer rights. These licenses are worth living with. As we have seen here in connection with the broker scandals, the Hungarian National Bank was not in a position to make many mistakes during its supervision process, which resulted in tens of thousands of people in a vulnerable situation and a situation where they could lose their investments. We will see how the laws tabled to eliminate this will fulfill the expectations attached to it, but regardless, the responsibility of the National Bank cannot be avoided, no matter how much Parliament intends to exempt the Hungarian National Bank from its liability under the Central Bank Act to be negotiated tomorrow, this responsibility exists in these matters, in this situation. I would also like to point out once again - and this, if the Hungarian National Bank is mentioned here in Parliament in any case, I will say it now - that the Hungarian National Bank is operating without a supervisory board, and the false argument that because the opposition could not agree in the supervisory committees, I reject this, because we have tabled several amendments, and even Fidesz has promised during the negotiations that it will submit a bill itself, which has not yet taken place. This is why they have been able to achieve that the Hungarian National Bank has been operating without a supervisory board for months now, for almost a year. So we want to give you supervisory powers, even to increase consumer protection powers with the Hungarian National Bank, that it does not have a supervisory body. I think that this is unacceptable in a rule of law, so I would like to draw the attention of the legislator here too, and to draw the attention of the proposer, even the government, to ensure that the Hungarian National Bank has a supervisory board. Together with these two comments and the opinion expressed in the drafting of the minority opinion, however, as I have already said, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the proposal, and we hope that this will completely exclude financial institutions from accounting. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from Jobbik's faction, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-04-27-228	Mr President, Dear House, The situation has not changed a bit since the general debate, that the majority of the arguments are in favour of supporting the basic proposal that we have before us, and the amendments attached and linked to this, no summary proposal has changed the substance of the situation that there is a lack of very important elements in this proposal. In addition, we must say that the influence of certain types of behaviour, the introduction of an opportunity to get new accounts made by those concerned, the financial institutions concerned, must be supported, even if the clarification of the various issues may not bring things forward as much as we would like, for example, who can challenge the accounts and who can not. There is still a debate between us on these references, and I feel that we have not been able to, nor can we bury, this gap. For example, I can support measures such as implementation or perhaps eviction moratorium, which come back here, but certainly not with the justification that it is necessary to embed the private bankrupt institution, which is a good institution, but we still do not know in what form the government intends to introduce it, to whose benefit or to whose detriment. Obviously, this is a useful method, which is why the kind of secrecy that surrounds all of this is incomprehensible, because we have tried to provoke these answers in the form of countless interpellations, immediate questions and debates here, of course, with the intention of improving. The fact is that we could not succeed, because we cannot know, on some basis unknown to us, the answers to how the government intends to lead it through the institution of private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy. What is quite amazing about the arguments made in the debate is that the Hungarian National Bank operates without a fair supervision and supervisory board. There may be false reasons here that the opposition has not been able to agree, of course that is not true, but it is untenable that a control over our very important control body is not achieved. The mechanism of this can also be seen through recent scandals. I could refer back to the fact that Jobbik had already put down the more than 20 amendments in 2010, the adoption of which might not have led to Buda-Cash and Quaestor scandals. However, it is quite certain that the fair operation of the supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank could help the situation with an imaginary bush knife finally to order in the imaginary jungle, since the Hungarian financial market was dominated by amazing jungle conditions, which is undeniable. I have further reservations as to how, in the course of the settlement, certain debtors' interest rates have risen from 5,35 per cent to 6.6 per cent, on the basis of the example in front of me. There is still no answer as to how this can be imagined under an alleged ban. More specifically, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank announces an introduction, and also gives a part of the answer that here the costs that were set at a percentage in the forinting process have to be treated together with interest since 1 February 2015, but the government response, reaction and intervention will be omitted. We must therefore say that we must support this proposal, in addition to these reservations, because what helps up to three credit victims will make it easier for us, we have a dog's duty to support it, regardless of who submitted it and in what level of party. In the same spirit of reciprocity, we would also like to ask and not only to ask, but also to demand that Jobbik's proposals for improving and improving the system, which could have clearly and provenly prevented, for example, the Quaestor scandal, be passed through the system, or in such a way as to remove the Jobbik logo from the administration, put the Fidesz or MSZP, whoever it is that we will vote for, even if it comes to us in this way, because the goal is that every individual client, each victim, in relation to the Hungarian financial market, may return to its basic situation at least, but could be in a more favourable state than the one from which it started. Unfortunately, this has not yet been achieved. [[18.20]] We could open up further polarities so that, according to government ideas, foreign exchange credit is not better off than forint-crediters; as if any credit-damaged person had benefited in the Hungarian market, but we should not open this debate here, because that is not what the agenda is about. Overall, the proposal is therefore eligible, but if we do not get the answers we need, we can count on them, we can count on the continuous rattles and the continuous response that we will have at the end of which we will achieve results, either by finally responding to their intentions, or by trying to push Jobbik through the current two-thirds, but still on a strong system, the solutions that, I will say again, we put down in 2010. Whether it is a financial market, whether it be a broker scandal, whether it is a foreign currency loan damage, our package of solutions is ready, open to everyone, and we demand that this be carried through the system in the interests of Hungarian citizens, with proper openness. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-229	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer, head of the LMP faction. Here.
u2015-04-27-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A substantial part of the summary amendments are codification and language positioning clarification. As a matter of substance, the amendment states, for example, who of the holders of the copy can challenge the settlement or the proposal to amend the suspension of enforcement procedures in the event of family bankruptcy, but I can also mention the fact that the Forinting Act did not settle the question of how the term should be extended in the case of a consumer loan contract affected by both the exchange rate barrier and the forint conversion, and this is now being settled. Of course, we support these. As far as the bill is concerned, it is indeed possible to congratulate Gergely Gulyás that he has the insight and self-reflection to make appropriate corrections to a quick bill. But let's rewind the wheels of time a little bit. You took over the government pole in May 2010 in addition to many promises by settling the situation of foreign exchange credit victims and the foreign exchange credit crisis at all. They didn't do anything for four years. They waited, cynically waited for the 2014 municipal election campaign, and scheduled a mini-campaign for the 2014 municipal election campaign, so to speak, about the accountability of the banks. You didn't even care about the tragedy that four years of delay is causing families with credit damage. And the other big scam was the forinting. A forinting mechanism has been put in place so that the central bank, the Matolcsy central bank, will make a profit of at least 100 billion. This money, because there is a difference between the current exchange rate and the current exchange rate on which the currency debt is now being converted, this exchange rate difference is not in the pocket of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, but, for example, it allows György Matolcsy to pay the purchase price for wonder palaces to offshore companies. Speaking of György Matolcsy, I can't avoid talking about decent, hard surveillance work here as long as the Hungarian National Bank has been operating as a loose ship cannon for a year now without a supervisory board. This is not just about the composition of the supervisory board of the central bank. From the moment financial supervision has been integrated with the central bank, the monetary policy body, the supervisory board should include the financial supervision of the central bank. My colleague Erzsébet Schmuck put forward a bill for this, by the way. Dear Parliament, With regard to the final proposal itself, we continue to maintain our criticisms that while we welcome the fact that Gergely Gulyás has brought such a proposal to the House, the personal scope of this clearing law remains limited, it only covers natural persons, as the entire history of foreign currency credit has rained down on many small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Once again, Fidesz is choosing a step that will not help Hungarian SMEs. The debts are unpredictable. With the specified parameters, it is difficult to double-twist a settlement programme to produce the same result. The deadlines are unfulfilled. We also said that in the general debate. However, no corrections were made to the summarised amendments either. In addition, it is not known what exchange rate could have done during the interim period. Finally, what we have already said in the general debate, this amount of paper that banks have to produce and transmit to various foreign addresses, where appropriate, causes massive environmental pollution for information. So we continue to maintain that, while it is right that the government has noticed, and our fellow Member Gergely Gulyás, that the laws created in campaign mode are actually similar to a cheese with a hole in it, so that I can take the Prime Minister's metaphor, it is not too lazy to touch this law. A number of shortcomings remain, and the original big cut, i.e. the forinting that damaged the foreign exchange credit victims, remains an inherent sin of this Fidesz-KDNP majority, as well as the four years delay. We continue to demand that there should be an effective supervision of the money and capital market, which has control in Hungarian: there should be a supervisory board of the central bank, and this supervisory board should also keep an eye on the financial supervision of the central bank. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-04-27-231	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see a signal. This means that the debate is closed. Once again, after the debate has been concluded, I will ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to react as rapporteur, Mr Gulyás Gergely. [[For signal:]] I would like to remind you that you have up to 10 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-232	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the comments, which were at least encouraging in the context of the factions that all the factions and, therefore, the Parliament as a whole, together with the party factions, seem to support this proposal in the final vote. This could end the debate here, but after the bill on the agenda and discussed now... [[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much. So far, I've been heard. There have also been comments from the opposition on the agenda that go beyond the bill that we are discussing, and it is therefore perhaps appropriate to respond briefly to them. The supervisory authority of the National Bank of Hungary is not subject to this proposal, but in this connection, let us state that the opposition could not agree on supervisory delegations or nominations in respect of the supervisory board. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] and, therefore, they have already indicated before the municipal elections that I would like to increase the number of members of the Supervisory Board so that this agreement can be reached. I am not saying that this proposal is rejected, and we have also indicated that this is worth considering. [[Dr. András Schiffer is leaving the meeting room.]] I continue to believe that this is worth considering, but this does not change the fact that, under the current legislative framework, the opposition has indeed not been able to agree. More importantly, it is a pity that András Schiffer is no longer with us, because he will repeat over and over again his false claim that the former establishment of the Supervisory Board and the financial supervision activities carried out by the Central Bank have anything to do with each other. This has nothing to do with it at the moment, because the supervisory board does not extend to the financial supervisory powers of the central bank. So, of course, amendments to the law can also be tabled in this respect, but let's just say among ourselves that the two had nothing to do with each other according to the existing legislation. When these laws were adopted, I recall that no one tabled an amendment to this effect. András Schiffer felt it, and so he ran away from us, saying that for four years we wouldn't have done anything. Anyone who doesn't know can see that the government has provided over 350 thousand final solutions or temporary solutions to the exchange rate barrier, end-payment, or asset manager. In this sense, the timing is also a rather inexpensive demagogy, since we know precisely that the original bill, which has now been clarified by some corrections, was discussed and adopted this year, since the Curia issued its judgment in May on the basis of this legislation, which was also stated here in the debate. So, after the decision of the Curia in May 14 gave us the right to adopt this law, it is obviously not possible, or, at least, at least, not fair to us before that. With regard to the content of the bill, I would also like to note that the foreign exchange credit problem has been brought up by the parties to the government as an original sin, not only by theological, but also by the subject. [[18.30]] The problem did not arise during our period of government, but this problem was created by the socialist government after 2002, when it ended the preferential forint loans. If this hadn't happened, it wouldn't have come up. We are now facing the reprehensible situation of countless families, which has been managed with various laws and various legal solutions adopted over four years, while the banking system has not collapsed, although it has been forced to endure significant damage, as has the legislation now being clarified to the banks of some HUF 900-1000 billion. We believe, of course, that for this fraudulent behaviour, which has contributed to the creation of foreign exchange credit contracts in such quantities and under such conditions, banks must also assume responsibility. But it is a pity to make the financial supervision system solely responsible for this, partly because, if that is the case, then, of course, the question of what financial supervision was doing when it allowed the creation of more than one million foreign currency credit contracts, and partly because it is the central bank, which in this respect, whether my opposition colleagues love György Matolcsy or not, deserves recognition, because these crimes and abuses have been going on for 15 years, the central bank has had financial supervisory powers for 15 months, and after 15 months it revealed both at Quaestor and at Buda-Cash during an on-the-spot check. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] the abuse of the illegal crime that has not been detected in any form by the financial supervisory leaders appointed by the Socialist Government, under the reigning Socialist Members who are now shouting. [[Anita Herring: You know it's not true! István Gábor Bellozó: Don't lie! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What's your commission, Gergő?]] And they can only assume that they have not been revealed by the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Authority until 2013. But the 15-year abuse was discovered 15 months after this supervisory authority was transferred to the central bank; whether you like it or not, it is a matter of fact. I am pleased that the debate that we are having right now does not concern the content of the legislation, and I am pleased that the legislation is supported by everyone. This also shows that no one should have any illusion that, if necessary, the governing parties are fully capable of making good corrections. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-233	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There follows a debate on the report and the proposal for amendment before the final vote on the bill amending certain laws relating to the management of public land assets and before the final vote. The submission was made in T/3788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Government's proposal to amend the final vote T/3788/17. I, the Legislative Committee's amendment before the final vote T/3788/18. and T/3788/19. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. For the first time, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have eight minutes tops. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-234	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 23 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state land assets in T/3788. Bill No. 1. As is known, the plenary session voted two weeks ago to amend the laws relating to state land assets, and after a two-thirds majority of the Parliament did not accept those parts of the legislative package for which a two-thirds majority of the Members present were required, a situation arose which would have caused a lack of coherence in the remaining so-called half parts. Accordingly, the Government presented both a single proposal and a proposal for an amendment to the final vote. These were, in essence, proposals to amend the proposal to restore legal technical coherence and to prevent coherence. Point 5 of the proposals for amendments to the final vote and point 5 of the background document were unanimously rejected by the committee, as the single proposal would have been submitted with the same text, i.e. a repetition of the text. The Committee adopted the amendment to the final vote by 24 votes to 9, with no abstentions. The report before the final vote and the amendment before the final vote were also adopted by 24 votes in favour, 9 against and without abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-235	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented in a maximum of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2015-04-27-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The opposition parties are unitedly opposed to the fact that this law, which had clearly failed two weeks ago, because the two-thirds majority had not been received, should be brought back to the House and accepted by a flat majority. The Legislative Committee on a bill, even if President Font doesn't like it... [[Sándor Font: two-thirds of the two-thirds. So don't mislead the students. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm asking you to clean up or call the guards. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-237	I would like to draw the Members' attention to the fact that, compared to the parliamentary number, one fifth of Members are not in the Chamber; compared with this, the debate is greater than 80 percent. So you guys can stand each other, it's a long night, there's gonna be plenty of times to argue. The Member shall not criticize the President, and the other Member shall not interfere with what the speaker has to say. They could've gotten away with a minute and a half with the president. There you go. Keep going.
u2015-04-27-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the situation is that the Legislative Committee would also have the task of indicating that a bill is obviously in conflict with the Fundamental Law. According to the current basic law text, i.e. the current constitutional rules, the Constitutional Court has stated that it is not possible to take back the level of protection already achieved in the Constitutional Court's resolution of 28/94. This bill does nothing more than put national park land into the management of the National Earth Fund. Dear Parliament, I know, of course, that, and obviously, Secretary of State Bitay will once again say the Government's argument that this is not a step back from the level of nature protection that has already been achieved, since it will also be treated as a protected area by the NFA. Yes, but at a time when the Fundamental Law imposes a constitutional objective, a constitutional interest or right, it is not merely a declaration of rights, but it also calls on the legislator to establish an appropriate institutional system in order to enforce that constitutional objective or interest. The situation is that, for protected natural areas, not only the rules on land and public land should be applied, but also the rules on nature protection LIII of the year. The rules of law, too. So far, in the last two decades, the legal system has been able to enforce this effectively, so that the nature conservation law has the primacy of other agricultural laws, and there is a manager - and this is the national park directorate - where there is the professional apparatus that can apply the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act, which the Nature Conservation Act requires in protected natural areas, professionally. In the event that the management of these areas is removed from the state body where the professional experience is given, the professional preparation for the management of protected natural areas is given, despite the fact that the Earth Fund asks for smart advice, the institutional guarantee that the management of protected natural areas will be carried out by a specially prepared apparatus for this purpose will obviously be damaged. Dear Parliament, The situation is - and we have said this to opposition representatives at the Legislative Committee - that you have justified this bill by why this bill is necessary, because you wanted or would like to have a central register, I should actually speak in the past time, you wanted to create it for the state's land fortune. We have both officially and informally indicated that we are open to such initiatives, in addition to five-party negotiations. We have said that we are open to such initiatives if they do not touch national park land. [[18.40]] What is happening now is that, in the two-thirds vote, the government did not pass what was put forward by the government in connection with local governments, municipal lands, social cooperatives or in relation to defence land, which would require a two-thirds majority, but they bring the order of national park land to NFA, in Hungarian: the kidnapping of national park land. It's out of the bag, Mr. Secretary. The fact is that you have no reason to unify the state's land, because if this were indeed the political goal, you would only bring this law here if there was an agreement - obviously this was also the point of the five-partisan agreement - so if there was an agreement that, for example, municipal land used for defence purposes would also be managed by the National Earth Fund. There is no agreement, so tomorrow, if and if the pro-government majority press the yes button, then it is not only that protected natural areas are allowed to be given for the thirtieth of dogs, it is also about the fact that tomorrow's vote is an open confession to the fact that there is no legal policy objective, as stated by the Secretary of State, to ensure a uniform and transparent management of the state's land - why there will be no transparent treatment, and I will talk about this in my speech - but it is only that they want to put their hands on national park land as well. The Fidesz oligarchs want to put their hands on national park land as well. The point is that, after their departure from Lajos Simicska and Zsolt Nyerges, the mouth of the new hungry must be filled, and they want to continue with the same national park land as the state has done over the past five years. This is why we need to put the national park land in the NFA, so that we can satisfy Lurch Mészáros and his fellows. That's what this story is about. Once again, Secretary of State, disprove me, but the rebuttal would be to announce, on behalf of the government, that this bill will be withdrawn, to initiate a five-party consultation, and to bring this bill here in such a way that, while not touching the national park land, they really achieve the goal that you have said that there should be a unified and transparent management of the state's land. What is going to be voted on here tomorrow is for all purposes, but not for unified and transparent land management. In addition, by taking the land from national parks, while voting two weeks ago does not allow for a single treatment [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This also makes this proposal unlawful, so that is why we expressed the minority opinion that an anti-law bill cannot be voted in favour. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-239	Dear Parliament, We now have the Members' speeches, and the political groups will be able to speak in 5-5 minutes - so I would like you to understand that all the political groups have 5 minutes in total - and the independent Members will be able to speak in a total of 3 minutes. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. First up, Congressman Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. András Schiffer has access to law, certainly not to nature conservation. This is now evidence of your speech. You have no idea what it means to retain the right to manage, what the entitlement to the NFA may mean for land management, property management, or the transfer of that right. The absurdity he claims here that this law failed, because two weeks ago, in the two-thirds sections, the two-thirds majority of the Members present were unable to obtain a vote, he knows precisely that it is obvious that the other sections that have been tabled, representing about 80 percent, have not failed, what is more, they live in the same way. Another thing is that, for some reason, it was too late to notice - I understand the opposition as a whole - what the logic would have been if the two-thirds sections had been voted in. You have considered that this whole law is directed against national parks. This is a serious mistake, I'm telling you. This is proven by the sections voted out by you, because if you'd read it and apparently read it afterwards, and now you're starting to have a headache that that dog's everything, we might be in a worse position than if we had voted for it. Now, that's their real problem, and now they're trying to pin it on the bill that can be voted on by 50 percent and by half, that it's going to be even worse if we vote on it now, so let's take it back. This is the typical escape logic of the opposition. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. For the paraphrases in which the death of national parks is being visited by several opposition parties today, I would just like to note that it is impossible because the two-thirds sections that you have voted against would ensure at legal level that the National Earth Fund is required to return land owned by the state, as described in those sections, for example, to national parks, but also to other public bodies. For some reason, you did not want to take this into account, and you do not even want to take note of the fact that today about half of the nature reserves are currently managed by the National Land Fund, only the other half is in the national parks. How is it possible that you and the forces behind you demand infinite designation to acquire various national parks and classified land under the heading of environmental protection, as last year and this year there have been quite significant nominations? Surprisingly, then, national parks do not use or only partially use these areas and immediately rent them. And surprisingly, they're really interested in where the revenue is going. It is not the use of whether the buffer zone and other logically justified cultivation, but what will become of the revenue. And that's actually where we're going with the whole bill. For some reason, you have complained, and you are wrong about this, that the National Fund of Land, after being known to be entrusted by the state with the management of state land, will continue to manage these areas in accordance with the management rules. What the national park designates, he will continue to, if necessary, bring to the level of protection and perhaps hand it over to the national parks. I would like to stress that we have not changed the environmental law, and we have not touched it. You have claimed that this will destroy national parks and future life opportunities in Hungary, which are part of nature conservation and environmental protection. So I would like to emphasise that the condition of this, the environmental and nature protection law, has not been changed. It's not even filed. National parks and their related professionals will continue to say, say and continue to tell us what areas they consider to be the areas needed for the protection of nature in Hungary. The only problem is that you tried to make the two-thirds vote two weeks ago a political victory, and you didn't care that you were politically claiming that you had won, hurrah, and in the process of destroying the entire logic system of the law. Therefore, they may have a headache, both for the government and for us, what will happen to agricultural vocational schools, research institutes, social cooperatives and municipalities, to whom we wanted to give the state land free of charge for proper targeted use. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Now, you voted against that, and now you're telling us to withdraw the law. It doesn't make sense, the system is operational, and the danger you're seeing is not there. Legally, you can barn-twist the word. [[The president's ringing again.]] In terms of nature conservation, however, the picture is clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-241	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Gábor Harangozó, MSZP. Here.
u2015-04-27-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to start with what we started with the other day, that this law is about one of the pillars of Fidesz's power exercise, giving a significant part of the land to my friends in the country. These friends, on the spot, determine who has a livelihood and who doesn't, because the local family farmers will be able to cope if they agree with these local lords; with whom they cannot agree, they can go to community service. That's the whole point. Unfortunately, the land that could be distributed was now run out, and new lands had to be looked up, and Fidesz looked up the lands of the national parks. They can say anything, but just anyone who lives in the country knows who these lands have been offered to. Mr. Secretary, I can name names who have already completed their little courses. [[Noise, uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties: Let's hear it! Go ahead. The president's ringing the bell.]] In order to become a landowner, those who have never dealt with farming. So that's the real point of this law. And before we are accused of wanting to prevent many new farmers in Hungary, I must say that we welcome the fact that significantly more people in the countryside are concerned with the cultivation of the land, the land can provide more families with livelihoods. [[18.50]] It's okay. There's a problem with about a third of the land use you've stolen to run the system. Since they want to involve national parks, which are the pillars of nature conservation, we can't give them our names. And it is not whether we add our name to a two-thirds or a half law, but simply that the MSZP does not give a single vote to sustain the ground dog of Fidesz, built on corruption that is weakened by internal crises. [[István Szilárd Németh: I managed to read it. Defiance from the Fidesz ranks. Intercom from the ranks of the MSZP: We wouldn't laugh so much!]] We have been told here that the aim is to ensure that there is a uniform and transparent practice in the field of land use in a legal and transparent way. Ladies and gentlemen, If that were the aim, they should have supported our proposal, which, by the way, was set as a prerequisite for any kind of professional consultation, in which we laid down the conditions under which (1) national parks cannot be touched; (2) with Kehi they should examine all the lands you have allocated so far, whether there was corruption or not. After all, the last Kehi investigation revealed that one third of the land they examined was corruption, whatever the Secretary of State is lying about it, I read that report, and it is therefore very important that everything is made public. This Kehi report is still classified. It has been encrypted for ten years, and according to their own laws, it should have posted the entire Kehi report on their website, and after all the facts have become known, where corruption has been, take the land away from those who have obtained it corruptly, and rewrite applications with a fair procedure to provide local farmers with pasture and livelihoods for local families. If these conditions are given, they eliminate corruption from the land tender system, then we can talk about what to do with the HM land and how to introduce a uniform and transparent land exploitation practice at all. Finally, one more thought. In order to clean up the agricultural economy, we need not only to eliminate corruption from the use of land, but we also consider it extremely important, and I would also like to mention here that VAT must be reduced to at least 5 per cent for basic food, because there is HUF 300 billion per year of VAT fraud in the food sector, which we cannot otherwise prevent. If you are willing to take these steps, you can find very varied professional solutions on how to use the land under fair conditions. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-243	Thank you very much. MEP Zoltán Magyar is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr State Secretary, we will continue our debate in the interpellations on this subject. The fact that we agreed on a significant part of the two-thirds part of the law, as far as two-thirds of the law is concerned, with which we did not have a debate, I also told the Secretary of State at the conciliation. That wasn't our main problem. We have the biggest problem with the part that's back in front of the House, which would leave the management of the national parks to the National Land Fund Management Organization. Not only did we opposition parties disagree with this, but it is also worth looking at the Ombudsman's position on this. It is worth looking at the resolution of 170 civil society organisations which I know have not been famous for much of the government's praise, of course, but those civil society organisations also have a position to read to Mr State Secretary, and their former Secretary of State, Mr Illés, has recently said how much the government has stepped back from its previous attitude in the field of environmental protection. So there are warning signs beyond this law. What's our problem here? We have often said that the Jobbik Hungary Movement also feels that this change can, on the other hand, be at the expense of our conservation values, but I would also prefer to focus on the fact that we see the distribution of state land in the background, and we see the facilitation of them in the background. It's very talkative, but I've already told you that most of the dirt dogs have come to light in connection with national parking areas, because there may still be some leaks in the system, and there may be people in the area of national parks who are not necessarily your kissers, your people, and who may have been able to get out information or help losers to get information that would turn into scandals. The National Land Fund Manager is much more capable of covering these transactions. Moreover, since we have discussed the specific circumstances of the legislation, I am very sorry that this five-party consultation, which the government announced, was held after this new version has already been presented and could come before us today. I mean, it seemed to me, even if after a little rain, there was this conversation, that there could be some kind of consensus between the government and some opposition factions. What the MSZP expressed on this subject, I think, was an ultimatum, and it did not give them the opportunity to agree on this matter, I do not think that was their intention. But both Jobbik and LMP have gone to this meeting, and I think we have been quite open and honest about the fact that we will be able to support the two-thirds part of the legislation without any particular problems if the lands of national parks are abandoned and these areas remain in the management of national parks. I'm really sorry that this didn't work out later. I don't know why Mr. Secretary of State couldn't cheat this at the government meeting, or if it was any other problem. The fact that Jobbik's amendment was not exactly as you would have liked it to be, I think, is not an argument, since it would have been a long time before the TAB meeting to amend this. Maybe in a sentence, if there was a debate between us, all the rest of it contained what we were talking about, by the way. So I think that's unacceptable and not an argument. And for the future, you're not looking for consensus, and you're standing in the usual arrogant way to legislate, and you're not gonna pin it on us if a two-thirds law doesn't pass. All this could have been prevented if they had sat down with the opposition factions, told me how they wanted to achieve those amendments, and I am sure that with this change, i.e. to keep the lands of national parks in place, they would have voted for all the rest of the opposition parties, because, for example, as I said, we agree with most of the two-thirds of them in relation to municipalities, social cooperatives and defence areas. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to withdraw this proposal in this way, and to bring it back in unitedly, as much as two thirds. In the name of the Jobbik fraction, I can promise that if the lands of the national parks remain in the management of the parks, we will be able to vote for the entire legislation. Thus, not under such conditions, because, as I said, the National Land Fund Manager has not been known to rent these areas in a transparent, fair way. As long as such a system is in place at NFA, we will not be able to give our name to any such amendment. I believe that in the middle of Europe in 2015, it is expected that the common public land, all of us, will be leased so that it can be transparent, fair and verifiable for anyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-04-27-245	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr András Schiffer, Head of the LMP Group. Here.
u2015-04-27-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It was a specimen of the fidesz arrogance that President Font produced here. He opens by questioning the other congressman... [[Sándor Font: Is it difficult to bear other opinions? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He opens by questioning the other Member's nature conservation competence, so to speak, and then he has the nerve to say the five minutes without giving a single conservation argument. Why don't you look in the mirror from time to time and go to the people and see how sick of this arrogance you people are doing here? [[Interview from the Fidesz: They've had enough of Schiffer!]] Dear Parliament, President Font also said that by failing the two-thirds proposals two weeks ago, he was destroyed by the opposition, so to speak, by the opposition. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the logic of this proposal. Here we go. Here we go. If the original logic of this bill has been ruined, so to speak, then why not withdraw it? Please respond to that. And one more thing: if you know in advance of a proposal that it includes two-thirds provisions, why didn't you initiate a five-party consultation when the original bill was submitted? Why were five-party negotiations initiated only after the two-thirds provisions had failed? This five-party consultation, Mr Secretary of State, took place with the bill on the table at the government meeting the next morning. If you had been led by an honest compromise, you wouldn't have called a five-party meeting on the Tuesday afternoon before the Wednesday government meeting. Once again, I would like to confirm: Mr Secretary of State, we would continue to be partners in ensuring that municipal land is provided by the NFA for the purposes of the Start Public Works Programme, so that social cooperatives have free public land, and we would also be partners in ensuring that state land for defence purposes is also managed by the NFA. [[19.00]] There was only one great condition for them not to touch the national park land. And you're talking about transparent government land management? The situation at present, Mr Secretary of State, is that everything can be talked about, for example, with regard to public forestry, but not about transparent asset management. It is also not possible to talk about transparency with regard to public land on the road for water management purposes. Mr. Secretary, what other purpose does it have to have, so to speak, to dismember the original logic - to quote President Font - that you are willing to cheat this law? The only goal is to rob national park land. There is no other reasonable reason for this proposal. Mr State Secretary, when I said in the minority opinion just now that, in this way and in this form, this proposal is a step backwards from the level already achieved in nature protection and, therefore, I am caught up in an anti-law, not in itself, bureaucratic provision. On the one hand, President Font has been babbling about environmental and nature protection laws. I was only talking about the Nature Conservation Act, and I did not say that it would be amended exactly, but that I claimed that the NFA was incompetent because of its purpose - not because it was good or bad - to implement the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. Therefore, by providing virtually an opportunity to manage land for nature conservation by an unprofessional state apparatus, and then giving out national park land easily to kissers, they further strengthen the process of depriveing local people of the management of community land, depriveing local people of, for example, grazing livestock, and continuing to pursue a policy of fattening their own masters instead of former masters. There have been countless examples of this in recent years around various state earth scandals. Secretary of State, it is quite simply a matter of going against what was said in 2009-2010, going against the national strategy of the Ángyán region. It is not that they want to strengthen the local economy, the family economy; I am sorry, I am correcting myself: you really want to strengthen family economies, you want to help some families' economies and some families get rich. This is what this bill is about, and nothing is expensive to you, and our natural values are not expensive, and the land is not expensive to you, and it is not expensive to bring here a bill with mutilated logic, if necessary, just so that you can fill the mouths of new hungry people. I can tell you, Mr State Secretary, that this bill will certainly end up in the Constitutional Court, and you can be sure that after a change of government in 2018, not only this bill will become null and void, but we will also investigate who it was in the coming years who put their filthy paws on nature conservation land. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-247	Thank you very much. They can now speak out of the remaining time frame. Congressman Zsolt Legány came forward to speak. I would like to remind you that you have less than a minute. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-248	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my colleague Font and I are in a permanent theoretical debate on the state's land fortune, very briefly for clarity, at least through the record of posterity: what was it about? Fidesz brought in a bill that would have taken the land away from national defence treatment and national parks; why the land should have been, my fellow Member Bellozó said. Since defence areas have two-thirds legislation in place, and the national park has a half, it has not passed this law by two-thirds, and it has done so by submitting before the final vote an amendment which would have taken these two-thirds out of the regulation, so it would have left the defence land in its original place and, according to the original legislation, it could have taken the land of the national parks away without having to provide two-thirds. So, basically, the horse's foot hangs out, they've abandoned the taking of defence land that would have required two thirds and left themselves with half the legislation. That is, of course, the meaning of this law. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-249	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. It's up to anyone who has time for their faction. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, On this basis, the debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following the Commission's proposal on the day of the Hungarian women's women's... [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs indicates you wish to speak.]] Secretary of State... [[Interjections: Closed! The author... he's closed the debate!]] We're moving on! [[Interjection.]] No! The debate on the Commission's report on the day of the Hungarian women's rights will follow. Gabriella Selmeczi, Ildikó Bene, Ferenc Hirt, Gergely Tapolczai, József Kovács, Ágnes Molnár, Sándor Kovács, Máriusz Révész - Fidesz - and the independent motion of representatives of Péter Harrach - KDNP - H/4036. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report on the detailed discussion of the Welfare Committee as designated committee H/4036/3. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congressman. I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of ten minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, the protective service in Europe provides a uniquely complex preventive, family protection service. For decades, the Hungarian state has provided protection services to ensure that all children can be conceived, born and raised in the best possible conditions, in health and in safety. As has been said several times, in 2013, the Hungarian protective service received the Hungarian Heritage Prize, and in 2014 it was added to the Hungarian Value Reserve. The 100-year-old protective service is also in the process of declaring it a national value, a Hungaricum. The fact that the National Stefania Association was established on this day in 1915, with the patronage of the royal princess Stefania on 13 June, also justifies the declaration of June 13 as an excellent day. I am pleased that, in the debates that have taken place, my fellow Members have also given their support in their speeches, without exception to everyone. As a result, the National Assembly can pay tribute to professionals who maintain their vocation in order to ensure a higher level of care for the population, in order to make it the day of 13 June 2015 to become the day of Hungarian women's protection on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Hungarian Heritage Award-winning Hungarian protective service. On the basis of the above, the parliamentary decision is intended to strengthen the public appreciation of the Hungarian term of defence and service, in view of which I continue to ask my fellow Members to support the parliamentary decision proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-251	Thank you very much, Mr József Kovács, as rapporteur. I would like to inform you that you have 7 minutes and 45 seconds as rapporteur at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, Now I'm gonna ask you if there's anyone on the government's side who wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-27-252	Honourable Congressman, The government supports the resolution proposal.
u2015-04-27-253	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the designated Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the group of MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am shocked to note that precisely the members of that committee are not here, the pro-government representatives of the People's Welfare Committee, and that, in order to be included in the minutes, they are the authors. The chairman of the People's Welfare Committee is Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi, members of Dr. Ildikó Bene, Ferenc Hirt, Dr. Gergely Tapolczai, Dr. Ágnes Molnár, Sándor Kovács, Márius Révész and Péter Harrach. None of them are here, and this was the law in which there was a five-party consensus that it was very important and that there was no debate in the debate, but everyone understood that this anniversary should be celebrated, and from then on 13 June will be the day of the patrons. [[19.10]] Compared to this, the pro-government representatives of the People's Welfare Committee look to this day. Well, once again, since we're here, and at least we're paying our respects, we're trying to stand up for this day, a little historical overview. One of the principles of the establishment of the Public Health Act of 1876 was prevention and disease prevention. National analytical disease and mortality statistics were also produced on the proposal of the National Public Health Council from 1868. The first statistics prepared with such a need shed light on the magnitude of infant and child mortality in Hungary. We're talking 1876. Until the First World War, mother and child protection, the theoretical and institutional system of child protection, was established in Hungary. Between 1920 and 32 the audit of functions and organisations was carried out under the supervision of the Ministry of Welfare. It became an essential task to train professionals, to employ larger numbers. In the 1920s, the Stefánia Association became a nationwide organization of self-strengthening and significant state aid, while the women's protective training was launched in 1917, but they also made it part of the Hungarian nursing training reorganized in 1920. One of the basic efforts of the nurses and women's nurses set up in university cities and then of the nationalized organization set up by the OKI is to prepare and train women and nurses in higher numbers. When the Hungarian Red Cross was appointed in 1924, he built the organization of the Youth Red Cross, launched social care training, child protection and this kind of information as a basic task. I think that we are talking about one of the most important basic supplies when we talk about mother and infant protection, the protective network is one of the most important parts of the settlements, so to speak. I think that we can list a lot of positive things in addition to the women in charge, besides the supply system itself, but we can also talk about the terrible problems that this system is facing. We can talk about the same problem with migration, the lack of wood, the lack of supplies, the issues of vocational training and the particular shortage of professionals. We also said in the debate that young people are reluctant to choose the protective service as a career, and we can say that this is the profession where we can still talk about service. The same problem can also be said for women in the social sector, which is clear that there is a lack of resources and that there is no appreciation for women in the social sector. It is not enough to appoint a day for women in one year, but to appreciate them in everyday life, as these people are valued at settlement level, to pay them, because if they are not paid, young people will still not be attracted to this course. There's a lot of extra work to be done in the settlements by the patronesses. I have tried to demonstrate in the debate that different programmes are being implemented, which we refer to as a good example. Many programmes are implemented in settlements where attention is drawn to various issues, such as, I have set the example of involving fathers in raising children, they have drawn attention to how the world has changed around us and how fathers should be more involved in this task. But I can say that if we do not appreciate our own professionals, and especially in rural small settlements, then it will cause a very big problem and an increasing problem in the countryside as well. So the Hungarian Socialist Party can certainly welcome the appointment of this day. But it's not enough! If these people are not appreciated in everyday life, they will happen exactly the same as nurses, doctors, and they will leave this country and will not stay here in Hungary. It is not possible to ask the same questions after years, as it was a hundred years ago, why the protective service was established, why it was formed, as the government calls it, the protective service, so that we do not ask these questions again, why mother and infant protection is needed. I ask the government not only to remember these people one day, but also to put a source next to it and try to put these people's appreciation there in material terms. I am very sorry that it was not important for the pro-government Members to rephrase their views today. I apologise to Mr Kovács, because at least he stood up and said his contribution, but I think that the members of the People's Welfare Committee should have been here and told us once again why this is important to us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-27-255	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-256	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As previously indicated, we want to support the declaration of 13 June as the Day of Hungarian Defenders. The main reason for this is the uniqueness of the protective service and the special role of their work. However, it is also necessary to look ahead, not just on the road to this point. It is therefore necessary, however, to create the opportunity to renew and respond to the current challenges and the complexity of assistance, because individual psychic and human preparedness is at least as important as health protection. At the same time, the entire organisation must be able and ready to ensure that the signalling system is running smoothly so that the protective service can complete the task for it in all respects. It is therefore a very important, irreplaceable and complex task, which must be fulfilled, as their mission is unique in other respects. They must reach all the households concerned, regardless of social and geographical conditions. We hope that this mission will indeed be fully implemented everywhere. Let us hope that someday there will be no areas where the people living there will be disadvantaged for any reason. But let us also hope that the pressure of the women in charge will be reduced, since there are also problems in numbers. There have been times when there have been 1000 more women in the system, but since 2010, we have been talking about 4,000-4500 people, so it is no wonder that their unparalleled work is accompanied by a high burden. There are still vacant jobs, but there could be even more women of protection to give everyone the attention they need. Similarly, because of the high burden and as losers of the changing legislation, it is not possible to say after the planned wage arrangements promised that their work would receive adequate compensation. Their financial prestige must also be replaced. I think it's the only way to complete such a holiday for them. In recognition of their work, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the single protective service, we support the Parliament's declaration of 13 June as the Day of Hungarian Defenders. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2015-04-27-257	Thank you very much, too. Fortunately, since Congressman Ikotity has left time for Congressman Ikotity, who has applied for a normal word as a petitioner, I can now give the floor to Congressman Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-258	Thank you very much. It was just a technical mistake that I pushed the button twice.
u2015-04-27-259	It's a pleasure working together. Mr László Lukács is the next speaker from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, H/4036. The proposal for a resolution concerning the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Heritage Award-winning protective service established a hundred years ago is supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. In essence, in the detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision, all the arguments, all the points that had to be raised as a call for attention, have been raised, so I do not want to make my contribution very long. However, I would like to say that it is worth considering, at the end of the current proposal for a resolution, what other complex activities will be carried out by the government beyond the day of the women's rights. It is therefore clear that the legislative steps that should be put forward soon will need to be considered, as this is the only way to increase the protective care system. The protection services have the same problems as other participants in the basic care, where appropriate, or, for example, a problem that affects health workers in general. [[19.20]] I would, therefore, urge and would like to emphasise in this way at the end of the debate: this is an excellent opportunity to focus our attention on what legislative steps are still ahead. From here, I ask the State Secretary for Health to take steps to ensure that, as soon as possible, the amendments to the laws that could finally help the work of health workers are brought before the Parliament, both for the patrons and for the basic care and for the health professionals, because otherwise, these commemorative days will become a bit of an inaccessible day, in which we obviously give due respect to the profession itself, but we cannot put real content behind them. In fact, the Day of Defenders will be a real holiday when legislation and government activity will actually catch up with the challenges we face, and then the profession, politics and political glum, as well as the Parliament itself, will rejoice at the same time. These two should now be brought closer together, so I suggest that further legislation should be taken as soon as possible so that women in charge not only get the protection day, but also the right status and conditions in life that are adequate and fair for the women who celebrate the centenary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-261	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, from the MSZP faction, has come to speak. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The protection, preservation or development of our health is not only an individual or individual interest, but also a social interest. Obviously, the healthier society is, the easier it is for us to meet jointly the expectations that surround us, and so to speak, to reach the right level in terms of prosperity. As a result, the protective network that operates in Hungary does not matter whether it has an important and important role adapted to municipal or school levels. In this respect, my personal view is separated from this proposal for a decision by the fact that everything that is included in the proposal for a decision has been supported on my part, but I think it is essential and necessary that we also talk about the financial appreciation of the women in charge and do it in particular. It's not enough to say, it's also necessary to do so. It's not enough just to talk about it, but to act for it. The Prime Minister has spoken on this subject about some of the processes that have been going on over the past period, but it would be okay if reality were to come before us in this respect. You know, the reality today is that in Hungary, women in general go from the minimum wage - although few - to the gross wage of 170 to 180 thousand forints if they do not occupy positions at management level. Or in another way, we can say that around 70 percent of all women in the whole circle reach the guaranteed minimum wage. I think that when the gross income received in terms of average wage is between HUF 120 and 130 thousand for the protection network, the problem is quite large, because this means that the average gross wages in Hungary reach 55 percent of the average women's income. In particular, I would like to suggest to the government that if money is taken out of health care in a global way, resources are not spent on improving health care, but resources are reduced - the experience of the last five years is sufficient to support them - by selecting this segment, except for the protection network, there would be no harm if they were not doing this, but instead trying to provide a fair opportunity to earn income for those who care for others. One word, as a hundred, must change the unacceptable state of the situation of 55 per cent of today's gross wages on the defence network, in the hands of the women. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-27-263	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. Congressman István Simicskó, KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-264	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say in my capacity that last week, the Hungarikum Committee also discussed the day of the Hungarian women's protection, and at all the 100-year-old service that was provided for the development of Hungarian children by the patronesses. Indeed, it is a real Hungarian value. This proposal is about realizing the value, assessing the values, even if it is only symbolic appreciation. Indeed, in the last hundred years, Hungarian women of protection have done a valuable job, and they are doing so today, so the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the proposal. And I hope that we will see a number of such proposals, which are about value-oriented. I am pleased that you have given support to almost everyone in Parliament. That's all I wanted to say, Mr. President. We have arrived at one of today's important stops, and I hope that we will have many more of these. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-265	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Once again, I will ask if anyone wishes to say anything at the time left. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. Congressman Kovács, please.
u2015-04-27-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a continuation of the general debate, I would like to thank everyone today for the positive attitude they have taken to the presentation. In conclusion, I would like to ask you once again for your support that this year be first 13 June of the year, and then every year 13 June for the Hungarian women's day. I very much hope that you will all confirm this with your votes tomorrow without exception. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-267	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The submission is T/4038. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Committee on Culture, as a designated committee, did not submit a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate, a report by the Commission on a detailed debate T/4038/3. was given to them. I would like to inform you that the government has initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee. The summarised amendment proposal is T/4038/5. and the summary report is T/4038/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-268	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 23 April 2015 the Legislative Committee discussed T/4038. The Commission submitted a bill amending Act I of 2004 on sport and submitted a draft amendment and a summary report containing 26 yes and 6 abstentions, i.e. no votes against. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion. The amending proposal is 1835/2013 on the promotion of the 2013 sport development vision of certain priority sports associations and on government measures in relation to their sports development tasks for the years 2014-20. 7th paragraph of the government decision helps to implement the property management of the Budapest Vasutas Sport Club as well as certain properties of the Budapest Honvéd sports association, based on the results of the ongoing and ongoing land formations. As early as 2013, the government decided to facilitate the strategic implementation of the successful sports associations of Budapest's Honvéd Sports Association, the Budapest Railway Sport Club, the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club, the Hungarian Body Practitioners' Corner, the Újpest Gymnastics Association and the Vasas Sport Club. [[19.30]] This Regulation also called on the Minister for National Development, the Government Commissioner responsible for the management of government tasks related to key sports facilities development, sport investment, and the Minister for Human Resources to present a proposal for the transfer of certain state-owned properties to the asset management of priority sports associations. In fact, the submitted submission will comply with this government's will that by 31 October 2015 BVSC will also receive its property used for sport purposes. As a committed capital, I trust that the performance of the clubs in Budapest will be enhanced by modern sports facilities, which can now be developed and used as a good farmer in the future. I ask your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Dessert. I'll let you know you have seven minutes tops. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, there was also a minority opinion, which I would like to express, although we have already talked so many times about this issue here in plenary and at other meetings of the Committee, that I believe that we are already familiar with each other's thoughts, with Mr State Secretary, and with my fellow Members, so much that we may not even know our wives. We are discussing basically two issues here, one of which is the issue of the professional associations, in which the amendment of the law states that it intends to give new tasks to the professional associations, and the other is a series of measures relating to the various real estates in Budapest. It was a minority opinion that these new tasks, which are assigned to the professional associations, are tasks which also represent an international task. It was stated whether all the professional associations were sufficiently prepared for this task, especially with regard to human resources, are the necessary preparations for carrying out such an event or a series of events. With regard to real estate, it is stated that the intention of the proposal was understandable and clear, on which a minority opinion was expressed, in particular, the preparation of the law. A comment was made which wanted to highlight that it could have been better prepared if we had had, say, a map attachment and other information for this. After all, it is relatively difficult to find out where, which real estate it is based on location numbers and whether it is indeed justified to modify it on a property sheet. This was expressed as an opinion, as well as the change in the role of these real estates in the coming period, what plans, ideas, what was the reason for their modification. This was partially answered by the author at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, new proposals were tabled. That was the committee's proposal. Here, I think it may have been a surprise that this seemed to be a prepared and thought-out proposal at first, and then, since the TAB had a modified proposal before it, we thought that it might not have been so prepared. After all, several properties were suddenly imported here, and each of them had the characteristic of being treated by BVSC. Such a sudden submission of this new amendment has not increased confidence that it is indeed a type of real estate transaction that serves the purposes of sport. But later, because this was not a minority opinion. It was also stated that although the Legislative Committee is about the creation of the law, what we agreed to there at the committee meeting was no longer a category of creation, we tried to write the law there. I think that this is not necessarily good, because that is not what we should be dealing with on this committee. But in the end, it resulted in a proposal acceptable to the majority. As a minority opinion, what I've been trying to translate here is what I've been trying to do. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-27-271	Thank you very much. I am now going to ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Later.]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to speak later. This means that I will inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, and first, I give the floor to MEP Dezső Széchenyi, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to elaborate on the opinion of the Hungarian Socialist Party on the amendment of the law. Then, if we amend a law, I think it is normal procedure to look at what the law contains, to look at the events of the past period, and to try to formulate the changes that may require a law to be amended. This is obviously what happened here, so the Secretary of State has thought about what are the slices of the law since it was adopted, or what events it believes need to be modified. When they thought about it, they remembered two such stories. One of them is the position of the trade unions. This was obviously a very clear and tangible proposal for amendment, as this is about the expected change in the role of the professional associations in the coming period. The fact that various international events will take place in Hungary in the near future has certainly played a role in this, and I believe that the professional associations should also play a very good role in this. The reason why I said this is that when we drew up this law and could have talked about it then, there must have been another question that would have been appropriate for us to talk about, to think about whether there is anything else that needs to be amended in this law. If we had sat down on this matter, we would certainly have found an issue that could have been on the agenda for the satisfaction of all parties. Since this has not happened, we have discussed the two questions that the Secretary of State has tabled in this matter. As I mentioned, one of these was the issue of the trade unions. There I indicated in advance that we would like to entrust the professional associations with a serious task in terms of professional associations over the coming period, primarily by preparing for, and engaging in, international events rather than domestic. After all, such a series of events cannot take place without the active involvement of the relevant professional association; or if so, it is certainly not right to do so without them. Since we are dealing with events at international level, we must be prepared for this. I am quite certain that this will be the task of the future, and that we should be able to prepare the professional associations for this in such a way that these events will take place at a very high level and enhance Hungary's reputation in the international sports world. I think that this is a very serious task in the coming period, and we must be able to create the personal conditions for this. This is the responsibility of the government, I suppose, including the Secretary of State. I feel the weight of this. I'm sure this won't be easy. We can certainly list quite a few sports associations where all the necessary conditions are available, there are already recognised professional associations in Hungarian sports life at international level, but there are quite a few, I would ignore the list of them, where I do not see assured that if there were such a level of competition, they would be able to contribute to this at the level that would be expected. [[19.40]] But we have discussed that this responsibility belongs to the Secretary of State, and I am sure that he will do everything in his power to ensure that this is achieved effectively. Because the Socialist Party is likely to abstain during the vote, this concerns real estate, and this is the other part of this presentation or amendment proposal. This is actually about the fact that in the case of six major sports associations in Budapest, various real estate events take place. These include the transfer of public ownership rights or property rights, or vice versa. For example, there is a case where the BVSC avoids a property belonging to the territory of the MÁV. In the course of the presentation, the Secretary of State has partially explained their justification. I think that in the case of these real estates, the state was the owner, and the state now grants different rights to these sports clubs. I think that the direction of the pursuit itself is right, and where the event itself is, the activity is taking place - so this is specifically sport - there is no problem if there are different licenses. The state is far from here, he doesn't sense what's happening and what's happening there. The reason why we have a problem with these transactions is that all of this happens without the resources needed to operate. At least, according to the proposal, we do not provide for these sports clubs. Almost all of the sports associations that we are talking about are struggling, primarily with financial difficulties, and I think that if they receive such a burden in the coming period, they will have two options. One of them is the struggle, because they are given another task, we all know that the operation and management of such a property is an extra burden. If these difficult sports clubs do not receive a separate source for this, it will make their life even more difficult. As an experienced sports manager, I know that this is usually when you think about using the property. However, since they do not have financial resources, the direction of exploitation usually does not move towards sport. It is this fear that led us to believe that we would not be able to vote in favour of this if we did not provide a source for it. This is the time when it happens, and I am quite certain that the Secretary of State does not want this to happen either, or that these properties currently serving sports purposes will serve a very different purpose in the future. And since these sports clubs are in a financially impossible situation, especially if they receive additional burdens, this danger is, in our view, increased. Since we do not know the 2016 budget, but it is actually just a one-time year, and if there is some kind of source in it, then this year, or 2016 could be solved, but what about the other years? So I think that we need to find a solution in this case that will permanently ensure that these areas provided for sports associations can be used for permanent sport. And I'm sure it's in our mutual interest. So I think that the Socialist Party is going to abstain on this case because, although the proposal is about what we could imagine, we cannot support it because we do not see the conditions necessary for its implementation behind or behind it. Therefore, we are expected to abstain on this issue during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-27-273	Thank you very much. Mr György Szilágyi, the next speaker from the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-27-274	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, in the general debate, it was said what excuses we have, but I have also said there, and I am telling you now that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this bill, because we also believe that if this system really works well, associations with trust rights may be able to improve the sporting property they have used more effectively. We also said that, indeed, when such a law is submitted next time, we would ask you to provide a brief description of both ownership and real estate. And what is even more important is that it is written about what kind of sports professional purpose it is intended to achieve, so what is prescribed for the associations to whom the trust rights are given. I suppose this will be recorded in the contracts, in the contract between the MNV and the associations, but it is good that the Parliament knows in advance what the goal is. This would be good, too, because if we knew in advance what the goal was to give an example, if the goal was, in Ferencváros, Ferencváros had already been given the right of trustee to build a nice stadium here, which will be constantly full of viewers, then it might be possible for us to think whether this sports goal has been achieved. After all, there is a beautiful stadium, but with the powerful help of the government, the Hungarian Football Association and some association leaders drove the fans out of this stadium. So there is a nice stadium, without atmosphere and fans, then perhaps this sports goal may not have developed properly, and perhaps this should be changed, or some of the provisions of the sports law should be changed on this subject. Then the other important part is that we are talking about state assets, so we should consider in a responsible way the powers of the trustee to preserve this state's assets, what opportunities he has for development and what resources he has at his disposal. First, in the general debate, it was just about the Honvéd, his real estate, and their changes. Since then, with the amendment proposal, the property of BVSC has come into this circle, and we have already told Honvéd that we find the argument that was part of the general justification to pass it on to the Budapest Honvéd Association because there is a shortage of funds in the current trustees. Who was the current trustee? These areas are managed by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Human Resources. If they have a shortage of resources, I hope that the Budapest Honvéd Association will look better and there will be no shortage of resources. This is what we were hoping for at BVSC, and after this general debate, there was something that had a strong impact on the impact of this law at the moment. Imre Pesti said here, too, that the government, if I quote correctly, should pass on these properties in line with the strategic aspects of sport. Yes, but since then, after the general debate, an immediate question has been given by the current government and the second man of Fidesz to a sentence that seriously questions this possibility and what resources it will be. Namely, János Lázár said here to an immediate question, that, I quote, in professional football or professional sport, there is no or extremely regulated and moderate place for public money. Now, these are very serious words, by the way. So if the government has a long-term sports strategy, you define state aid according to this, and determine how Tao benefits can be granted, when János Lázár says such sentences, more questions arise. For example, the question arises whether, in the middle of an Olympic preparation, this means - because it means professional sport - that the preparation of both five visual team sports and 16 major sports may be at risk. Could this mean that, say, the three-time Olympic and 31-time world champion Katalin Kovács or the Olympic and two-time world champion and six-time European champion Krisztián Berki, or let's say, the Olympic champion and three-time world and two-time European champion Dániel Gyurta now has to start thinking about where he's going to finance his preparations? Are you going to be chasing sponsors in this? They belong here too. [[19.50]] Or the question arises as to what the Fidesz leaders who have been put in each of the sports associations and major associations have to say now, János Lázár, that we should withdraw these subsidies. Or what do you think of this, say, Viktor Orbán, who in 2010 set the goal of 1 percent of the state budget to go to sport. I'm saying these are very important questions. In fact, I think that János Lázár should have preferred to suggest, or even to Mr. State Secretary, that the sports funding things that are present in sport are being checked as closely as possible. So, for example, the more we check the 50 billion forints, let's say, which will flow from the lake this year to the sport, so that it should not be that the MOB and through it, let's say, the Hungarian Football Association distributes these funds and, moreover, without any control, because they are unfortunately an opportunity for abuse. So there's something to change. Here comes what's related to this law amendment. If we withdraw resources from sport, as János Lázár predicted, will these associations be able to finance these state properties, because the state is the owner of these properties, how will they be able to implement the preservation, how will they be able to develop them, will they even have the money to develop these real estates in a normal and normal way? That's a very big question. But as I said, we will support this bill, because if we have given this opportunity to some associations, as I said, to Ferencváros or MTK or Újpest before, then, of course, let us give this opportunity to other associations. But I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, if we define sports objectives, if we say in the case of BVSC, and I know I have agreed, I would say that I am positive that Mr Secretary of State has already arrived at the meeting of the Committee with photographs of the TAB meeting and tried to show which areas are involved, if we know that these are replacement bases at BVSC, then we should really pay attention to the fact that, indeed, this replacement base should not be in such a state in two or three years' time, but in a better state, and let us see if BVSC has an appropriate source for this, and if we see that it is not, then we must intervene. So I would ask the State Secretary to introduce much greater control and much greater control both in this area and in the area of Tao and other state aids, because if we spend public money for noble purposes - such a noble goal is to raise supplies, such a noble goal is to give sport real subsidies - then we will also check that these public funds are actually translated into what we intended them to be, and that certain small kings should not be able to throw it at their pleasure and give it to their friends in the same way, and that there should also be poo-poo-poo. Let's rule out mugging, and I say we rule it out anyway. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] policy at the level of leadership from sport. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-275	Thank you very much. Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-276	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The government is making changes in the regulation of sport. At first glance, he may seem more innocent than the scandalous legislation of the past period. Yet, if we go deeper into the ministry's proposal, we can discover similar, unfortunately, familiar features. I could say that this product also bears the important characteristics of the Fidesz law factory. What they are, let's face it. The first part of the amending package was obviously written for the 2017 World Water Championship. What else could we imagine is that they have just thought of giving greater space to sports associations to organise international competitions. The goal is about rushing, and haste rarely leads to good, especially if the control mechanisms are eliminated by a recently adopted law. The sports associations, whose economic background is becoming increasingly less transparent thanks to you, are given greater discretion and leeway in the organisation of competitions and construction projects. But why not provide the same additional licenses to the bodies and offices responsible for environmental protection, heritage protection, urban image conservation? Let us not forget, we are talking about tens of billions of budget events. There will be no wonder that, in view of the regulation that we are discussing here, many people will cry out: Fidesz will open up new corruption risks. Sport seems to have become a big business for some over the past five years. Some large companies seem more attractive than the central budget to support clubs with their taxes, such as the Puskás Academy in Felcsút. If we add that the management of sports associations will become more vague in the future, we add that we will find more and more Fidesz politicians at the head, and that we will leave serious financial decisions to the alliances in the course of major world competitions, then it will be clear to everyone what the game is going on again. But that is not the only problem with the proposal we are discussing; it is not the only fidesz feature. The mockery of legislation and popular representation, and the over-regulation, is about the inclusion of specific real estates and specific localization numbers in the law. We are very curious about what may come next, as we can meet in the text of the law. Maybe even the menu of the parliamentary cafeteria deserves a few paragraphs? Of course, there is no wonder in a country where the retirement age of certain professions is written directly into the Fundamental Law. However, by lowering the level of legislation, they undermine the country's governance. It is a small consolation for us and our citizens that you are now moaning the consequences of this. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, the LMP fraction cannot support this submission.
u2015-04-27-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak on the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any sign-ups. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-278	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put an end to some misunderstandings that have been raised in connection with this proposal. I would like to respond briefly to what has been said in this debate. I believe that you have indeed given an excellent summary of the fact that one of the aims of this proposal is to strengthen the professional associations in the field of sport, let us call it that. Indeed, the sports associations, which we believe are important and indeed there is an extraordinary situation, can continue to perform a public task in the future because of the amendment of the law, as Hungary could have brought it forward by 2017 after winning the 2021 World Water Championship, or could have received the possibility of this settlement on the basis of Mexico's withdrawal. In addition, there was a five-party consultation, where the leaders of the groups agreed on this objective, in order to do it, let us also try to do what we planned for 2021. I believe that it is true that, in the last year and a half, sports associations have also developed human resources and human resources, in line with the government's support and expectations. There are excellent sports associations. We are trying to bring all the professional associations to the level that the leaders have reached or have reached. The intention is clear and fair. Several criticisms were raised about the preparation and the various properties, which were raised in the case of sports associations and the six metropolitan clubs. I think that was obviously instructive. We tried to enter at least the TAB's seat later with a map attachment. What I would like to tell you, what István Ikotity said here, is that if we make concrete real estate a law here, that is what we are saying, I think it is not the destruction of legislation, but the strengthening of transparency. If we don't put it in, that's the problem. All Members, whether pro-government or opposition, or even the press, can see what real estate it is, and we would like to give these properties to the six major metropolitan clubs exclusively for sport purposes. This process has begun. We didn't start this process, in 2004 Vasas had already received property management for its properties, those improvements were made last year. We do not look at who the president is, what party preference he has, but he serves the cause of Hungarian sport or not, which is why Vasas receives support, which is why Diósgyőr receives support, and many others receive support. I think we should agree on that, because it is not a goal to put anyone at a disadvantage. Indeed, it is an important critical remark which has been made by Mr Szilágyi, on behalf of the Reliable Member, about the amount for the operation of the six sports associations in Budapest, and that is what Mr Szilágyi spoke about. I think that last year and this year we have tried to solve their operational problems by providing five of the six major metropolitan clubs with state funding of 300-300 million forints, which is a great help for clubs. BVSC receives an annual operating grant of HUF 150 million. [[20.00]] We are preparing the budget now, and we have tried to make available the resources and public resources that are essential for the operation of these clubs; we will see where we are going in the debate on the budget, whether we will succeed in enforcing this intention. I think we're gonna make it, and that's what we're all working on, and I'd like your support on that, too. When we talk about ownership, allow me to say a few points, to mention some important points. The right of ownership shall consist predominantly of possession, use and provision, and the right of trust shall mean the right of possession and use. So you can't provide for this property, you get it, it remains state-owned - it remains state-owned, it's very important - there is no loss of state ownership, the six major metropolitan clubs get asset management, so you can use and own the property, but you can't have it, so you can't sell it, and the rest, and the rest, and the rest. So this is very, very important, and it is indeed in our interest to use these properties for sport purposes. There should be swimming pools, handball halls, many, many other sports facilities with which children in Budapest can play sports, and through this we can obviously support the top sport by broadening the replacement base, and through this we can serve the success of Hungarian sports. If you go to the BVSC or the Vasas Sports Camp in Fáy Street or to the Honvéd Dózsa György út site in Budapest, you can see how much behind these associations are, which means the facility, the infrastructure. So we want to help you be good owners in this sense, from a trusting point of view, of clubs. Of course, the leaders of the club have a responsibility to the state and to the Hungarian sport, so that they can perform this task fairly. So I'd like to assure the MSZP fraction that our goal, at least for the sports government, is to get operational funding from the budget for these clubs, so let's not - how should I put it? - to have financing problems and to carry out the tasks necessary for the basic operation. What I have written here, I thank Mr Szilágyi for his support for the transfer of trust rights, and I would also like to reassure him that the preparations for the Olympics are not in danger. So our goal is to provide those additional resources to the Hungarian Olympic Committee, and obviously through this to our athletes, so that they can perform well in Rio, and we can further strengthen our so-called sports power status in the world. The sources have also been mentioned here. A little, not in connection with the presentation, but let me briefly say that here the resources, obviously based on the market, are various sponsorship and advertising subsidies, ticket revenue, which unfortunately is little, so it covers about 3-5 percent of a club's budget. There are certain broadcasting royalties, TV royalties, which are significant, there are some revenue from image and PR sales; obviously, we must not forget about a serious club's buy-in or the profit of selling, so this can also be a serious revenue for a club. And there are non-market-based subsidies, such as state aid, municipal aid, such as tao, and membership fees, even in the case of sports associations. And I would like to say to Congressman Ikotity that this is not a rush. Obviously, insofar as, compared to the scheduled preparation for a World Water Championship of 21 in an extraordinary situation, it may seem to be a series of fast-paced decisions, but this is what the situation requires, because if there was agreement between us, and there was agreement between us to bring the World Water Championship forward and organize the World Water Championship in 17 we Hungarians can do it, we really had to take one or two faster steps to do it. I would like to say that the issue of corruption in this area is interesting and specific, because there is a multi-party, multi-entrepreneurial organising committee for the implementation of the water vb, of which, say, József Tóth, mayor of the Angelland MSZP, is a member of a number of entrepreneurs, so let me not list the names. This is a large organizing committee, which, by the way, is involved in organizing the World Water Championship, and prepares the World Championship 17 and I trust that we will be able to arrange a successful World Championship. And environmental protection is important for all of us, because the protection of the world created by God, I believe, cannot be a question, so not only in the case of a party and faction equipped with so-called green values, but also in the case of us, KDNP, the government and everyone, it is really important to protect the environment. But, of course, it is at least as important to support sport, as it can mean raising our children and presenting positive role models for Hungarian youth through leading sports. That is all I wanted to say briefly, and thank you very much for everyone who has given your support to this proposal. Thank you very much to the speakers, and thank you for keeping the debate going. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-27-279	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the national policy for spent fuel and radioactive waste management will be discussed. The submission is H/3883. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on a detailed discussion H/3883/4. was given to them. Report by the Committee on Sustainable Development on the detailed discussion of the Committee on Sustainable Development H/3883/5. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] Secretary of State says no. I will inform you that you will have 10 minutes in total. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee has not provided a rapporteur, I will inform you. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Parliament's Committee for Sustainable Development is the resolution house rule 32. H/3883 on the national policy of spent fuel and radioactive waste management was held at its meeting on 8 April 2015 as a committee related to the debate pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. Having examined the proposal for a decision, the Committee concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. § 1 and the requirements of constitutional, international and European Union law, as well as the professional requirements of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Sustainability and a wide range of society are also required to resolve the safe disposal and re-use of radioactive waste and spent fuel, and to protect human health and the environment. The domestic legislation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy complies with the European Union's requirements. The plans already include waste generated by the extended operating time of the four blocks operating on Paks, as well as the two building blocks. This national policy sets out the requirements for the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and the alignment with existing programmes. It is the government's task to develop a national policy programme, ranging from generation to finalisation, with annual mid- and long-term plans revised. National policy itself is reviewed more frequently by the Minister every five years, where appropriate. The Committee did not make its own amendment and closed the in-depth debate on 8 April. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-27-281	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minority opinion drafted in the committee is presented by two speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the discussion, the Committee on Sustainable Development raised some concerns about the preparation of the permanent placement of nuclear waste not only from a physical, environmental safety point of view, but also from a social aspect. It was important that Bodan residents, people living in Bodan and its surroundings, and especially those living in Pécs, should be mentioned at the committee meeting at all, because, with relatively large secrecy, a discussion on the disposal of long-term nuclear waste is taking place in such a way that we do not see the background of the number of locations in Hungary, the researches that preceded the investigation that could be considered at all in relation to permanent disposal. Since we were not able to see this, there have obviously been several problems in this regard as to how the locals are involved, how the involvement took place, how in previous legislation the different long-distance dimensions of the environmental impact assessment have been reduced, how this creates opportunities for local people to participate, and I have expressed concerns about this in a minority. [[20.10]] In addition, we discussed in the minority opinion the possible accidents during transport, the needs for their reimbursement and the resources to be covered by the costs of full placement. Since we did not receive a reassuring reply, I could not support this proposal for my part. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-283	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-284	Thank you very much for the floor. I wanted to say this because I felt it was important to say at the committee meeting that the principle of the public was trampled on the 30-year encryption of the Paks expansion, which is emphasised here. It is written precisely: "The key issue of the use of nuclear energy is the acquisition of the confidence and support of the population, and the continued maintenance of it. The examination of international practice also provides evidence of the need to involve the population through a number of examples. National programmes where public opinion and partnership support them can progress successfully. This is exactly what Fidesz really has to do with the 30-year encryption of the Paks expansion. Of course, and then Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State, is telling you that the same is happening to the Finns, except that there is no state money for enlargement, and here taxpayers are going to pay for enlargement, as you call it, capacity maintenance. If you take the trouble to sit down with people, discuss it, as the MSZP government did in connection with Bátaapáti, where the final result of the referendum was 90 percent in the case of 70 percent participation, then a lot could be achieved, and so many tens of years of reliability, publicity, the expertise of the people of Paks and the specialists of Paks are being trampled on, because they have had the confidence so far, but you are ruining everything with this secrecy. They have one responsibility: to make matters public that are not subject to national security encryption, because of course there are such issues. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-285	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, Congressman István Tiba, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-286	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, 2011/70 of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe management of radioactive waste. Euratom Council Directive comprehensively regulates the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. It provides for the establishment of a national policy, a national programme and a national system, as well as a set of requirements. The Directive requires Member States to notify the European Commission of the content of their national programme implementing national policy as soon as possible and by 23 August 2015 at the latest. CHAPTER XXI It would be difficult to imagine Hungary's economy in the first century without the use of radioisotopes and nuclear technologies. Nuclear technology is widely used in industry, health care and plays a key role in electricity production. At the same time, the use of nuclear power will drive society to face and solve certain problems. Recognizing this, the National Assembly created the new 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy in 1996. a law requiring the disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuel, the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle and the decommissioning of nuclear installations to be carried out by a body designated by the government. On 2 June 1998, the Public Use Society for Radioactive Waste was established in this spirit, which on 7 January 2008 became the Public Benefit Nonprofit Ltd., adapted to the forms of business in the European Union. The most important of the technical tasks of the coming years will be to operate and expand the national radioactive waste storage and the temporary storage of spent cartridges, to increase the safety of radioactive waste processing and storage, which will also result in increased storage capacity; furthermore, to designate a storage site for the permanent disposal of long-lived high-activity waste. Atomic energy can only be used in such a way that it does not endanger human life. The social benefits of nuclear energy must be greater than the risks taken. Hungary is responsible for the safe, socially acceptable management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. In parallel with the development of science and experience, the system should be kept under constant review. In addition, emphasis should be placed on the training and further training of professionals. The use of nuclear energy should aim to minimise the amount of waste generated. In the future, the two new nuclear power stations at the Paks site will also contribute to an increase in the amount of spent fuel. Today, there are basically two lines for the closure of the fuel cycle: the open fuel cycle and recycling. Currently, plans for four active blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should be drawn up taking into account the extended operating time and the open fuel cycle. Whatever solution is chosen to complete the nuclear fuel cycle while taking into account the new nuclear power plant blocks, the design should be carried out with a view to final disposal in deep geological reservoirs. The policy of closing the fuel cycle with regard to spent fuel of domestic non-nuclear origin is that our country makes use of the possibility of returning to Russia. If, in the future, it is decided, taking into account strategic, technical and economic aspects, that the country does not make use of the possibility of return to Russia, further domestic storage of spent spent research reactor fuel remaining in Hungary, together with spent fuel of nuclear power plant origin, should be started immediately. The Hungarian storage facilities must be designed in such a way that the site, the receiving rock and the technical solutions used together ensure that the waste is isolated from the living environment according to the characteristics of the waste. The application of this policy has reached the stage of implementation. This means that the disposal of low and medium-activity radioactive waste is carried out in specially designed containers. The disposal of high-activity radioactive waste in Hungary should be resolved in a stable storage facility for deep geological formation. At this point, the policy of the disposal of radioactive waste is linked to the fuel cycle closure policy. Depth geological radioactive waste storage shall be designed and constructed in such a way that high-activity and long-lived radioactive waste and spent fuel can be placed together. In addition, the recovery of radioactive waste is an important element. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-287	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP. Here.
u2015-04-27-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a technically sound proposal for a resolution that's come before this House. We've heard the professional approach here. I think that there may not be such a great debate between us about the professional content of this material if it does not contain a provision which is completely unacceptable to the Socialist Party, but I will explain this later. Allow me to refer to the line of thought that my colleague Anita Heringes said a few minutes ago that in this process he intends to adopt a proposal for a decision, a so-called national policy, which is about how the management of radioactive waste, their placement, is an important national matter, which you have formulated as a matter of which the professional content of which will be made public, discussing with professional organisations and even with Hungarian people, a strategy will be outlined on the basis of which a policy will be defined for several decades in advance, and a legislative process will obviously start on this basis. The main problem is why you did not like to do this in connection with the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, what was needed to keep a lot of secrets from this process for 30 years, since we believe that the problem of radioactive nuclear waste management is at least as important as the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[20.20]] We therefore object to the fact that, while we can talk about this here in a parliamentary debate, we cannot do this in connection with enlargement, since not only data has been encrypted for 30 years, but implementation agreements have been converted into classified documents and data, so that it is not known. What I said at the beginning of my speech is the main objection of the Socialist Party that you wish to involve Hungarian people, voters, in different processes and decision situations by holding a public hearing. Thus, at sites marked by the material itself, a so-called public hearing legal institution is introduced into the decision-making mechanism and indicated here in the proposal for a decision on national policy. But you should see it, too, but we all know that a public hearing is not a decision, it does not shape a decision; there is a proposal, they call the people who live there together, they listen to them, and then they decide as they please. That is why we are proposing - and I have also put this in the amendment - because we are in a final debate, and I ask you that, in the vote tomorrow, when Parliament votes on this, you support this motion - so that people living within 25 kilometres of the impact of such facilities, the settlements there, can express their opinion through a decisive local referendum and can decide whether they will accept such an establishment in their residential environment or not. As my fellow Member, Anita Heringes mentioned, the settlement was able to vote at Bátaapáti itself, but in the material there is a settlement, the village Boda, which is separated from the city of Pécs by 8 kilometres, where nearly 150,000 people live, and the Pécs are extremely excited and interested in what happens 8 kilometres from them, and the Pécs do want to participate in the decision-making process, not only through public hearings, but also through referendums. But the situation is worse, because, in the current process, communication about the Boda nuclear cemetery is narrowed down to the settlement, the small region, the settlements and the inhabitants of Boda, so far neither the city administration nor the public company or organization involved in the project has planned to do public hearings or any information in the city of Pécs. And most of all, it is the city's leadership that has the authority to lead the city of Pécs, to hold at least some sort of consultation with professional organisations, the civil society organisations in Pécs, either directly or through public hearing. Imagine that the last General Assembly in Pécs made a decision, didn't it, in the previous rules of organisation and operation, that on the initiative of 5 percent of the Pécs it was mandatory to hold a public hearing, see a miracle, now that this issue has come up, and the Pécs are interested in what is happening to them 8 kilometers, this rule was abolished by the General Assembly. So there is no way for the Pécs to initiate a public hearing at the General Assembly in Pécs, and this is completely unacceptable. I would like to remind you that this attitude does not pay in the long run. So if you really want to get the support of the local population for a national case, then yes, you do want to talk to them, and you do have to give them the choice, then you really become a national policy or a national issue. I understand, the material also includes that this will take place in decades, and then after 2050, this nuclear cemetery in Boda would be created, or there would be waste after, but believe me, if you spoil this process now, then the Pécs will protest it for decades, because their children and grandchildren want to live in this city, and the people now in Pécs are concerned with it. For all these reasons, I would ask you once again to reconsider, reconsider your position, and in the proposal for a resolution, support my amendment tomorrow, so let there be a decisive referendum on the matter, and let the people who live there be able to take part in real decisions. Obviously, it is up to the government and the various organisations to reassure and convince the people who live there, if they fail, then the decision of the people must be accepted. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-289	Thank you very much, too. The next speaker was Mr Lajos Kepli, from Jobbik's faction. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, Jobbik's faction, as in the past, does not want to be involved in the general hystericalisation of nuclear energy or radioactive waste. I think that this subject really needs to be dealt with with with with caution and caution, but it is as dangerous to over-dimension this issue as it is to over-dimension it, because although it is better to be afraid than to be afraid, the management of radioactive waste must find a safe way to ensure that waste from the nuclear power plant currently in operation, on the one hand, and radioactive waste from the future, can be disposed of for several centuries or thousands of years while their radioactive properties require it. Of course, the way in which this is happening or whether it is happening in Hungary at all can be discussed. At the moment, we are not talking about, or are talking about, not only the generation of spent fuel that needs to be disposed of, but also the end of the current four blocks between 2032 and 37; then, sometime between 40 and 50 years later, the operating time of the two new blocks that are currently being built, and these waste that will be produced in quite large quantities when these plants are dismantled, a good part of them will also be highly active waste, I think about reactor tanks and other primary circuit equipment, must be clearly placed somewhere. I would like to draw attention here to the risk that I have already said here in Parliament a number of times in relation to the reservoir of small and medium-activity waste, that such a large investment is always a hotbed of corruption in Hungary, and many, governments and governments are coming, and look at these investments from this perspective, how to make a sufficient amount of public money through such investments. There are always back-up companies behind the given governments, which are Grand Masters in this, and it is therefore particularly important that, in the case of such an investment, it is not possible for them to come up because, unfortunately, this should always be planned and implemented in the most transparent way possible, regardless of the governments. As it is, of course, this is not the topic on the agenda right now, but as in Paks II. The construction of a nuclear power plant or the construction of a nuclear power plant block should also take place. There, by the way, I agree with the Socialist faction, 30 years of encryption has greatly reduced the confidence that has been built in Hungary over decades in terms of the peaceful use of nuclear power. You have done a lot of harm, and that is also the opinion of the profession. Of course, the profession can be silenced by replacing the entire nuclear power plant management, and then Germans, or I don't know who we're going to replace, but regardless of who we're going to replace, the position of the profession will remain that of the profession that has been doing this for decades, that this step has been unnecessary, and that it will certainly repel the public confidence that has been built in Hungary in relation to nuclear energy. And of course it hurts everyone, because on the one hand, it gives a gun to those who have an interest in using the hystericalisation of nuclear energy for political gain and, on the other hand, it also harms the Hungarian population, which will not be able to see how these billions are spent. Closed parentheses, of course, we are talking about a national strategy for the management of radioactive waste. It is only necessary to say this because trust plays a fundamental role here too. [[20.30]] The fact that members of society, especially those in whose immediate residential environment the government wants to build such a deep geological reservoir or successive governments, since this plan is not limited to a government, must have a solid basis of trust on the part of society. Of course, it is not only the Pécs or the Pécs neighbourhoods, but it is understood at national level, as Hungary is not a large country in terms of size, and the atmosphere is properly embedded in order to upset the whole country so to say against such an investment. In this case, of course, we can also get to the point of asking the inhabitants and deciding in a referendum whether they want such an investment. This would be a democratic way of making such investments, but the population is absolutely not informed objectively. This is also the fault of the current government and the previous governments not to provide them with objective information, because, as much as we love civil society organisations, environmentalists, anti-nuclear and other civil society organisations, it would be difficult to point out to them that they are trying to give an objective picture of this issue. They often try to over-dimension this issue, not a little, but a lot. Obviously, there is a fear in this, on the one hand, of what we do not know. So if someone doesn't know the nature of nuclear energy, because, let's say, he doesn't have this type of education, or he doesn't know it, and most of the population is, of course, this, and there's an artificial hysterical hysteria with political or other backgrounds, and I can't put that in a better word, and using the understandable and natural fear in the population for political gain is not a principle. Otherwise, it would obviously be much better for Hungary at least if the disposal of these waste could be resolved in areas where there are no settlements within hundreds of kilometres, since there are such areas, and there are areas that are suitable for the disposal of such waste from a tectonic and earthquake-safety point of view. Of course, every country has the right to decide whether it wants to set up a storage facility where it can accept such waste internationally; even if it has a financial advantage, it obviously has its own security risk. Our aim is to return the waste, i.e. spent fuel, to Russia in as much proportion as possible, or to return it to Russia and recycle it by refrocing it. This would be best, since then a very small part of the fuel should be placed in this underground storage, and, in respect of other waste, as I have already mentioned, when decommissioning the nuclear power plant, it would come up in the first place that this problem would arise. So this strategy itself is obviously necessary. Whether this strategy will properly address the future fate of these waste will actually be decided by time. I'm trying and I'd like it here on the government side. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and to warn my opposition colleagues about the weight of the issue, and not to go to extremes in either direction on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-291	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, is next, member of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a decision, as if it were still not decided what would happen to spent fuel and other high-activity waste, will remain for permanent storage or will be shipped to Russia. However, the issue has been resolved, because according to the current state of the nuclear waste management directive, all countries have to take care of their own waste by default. Third countries, i.e. non-EU countries, will only be exposed to radioactive waste in EU Member States if the host country has a final storage in accordance with EU requirements. It may not be obvious to everyone, but there's no one with a storage unit like this right now. Not Russia, not the US, not France, not anyone. In other words, transport abroad is not a realistic option at the moment, despite the hope of my fellow Member who spoke to me. However, this is not a realistic option, but the proposal for a resolution before us is modestly silent, just as it does not mention the expected costs of accommodation in Hungary, even though these are huge amounts. According to a study by the MTA Lévai Foundation, in the case of existing Paks reactor blocks, the company manages radioactive waste. based on data from 2013 base price, total waste costs are HUF 1671 billion, i.e. EUR 5.6 billion. As the study reminds us, this is a Russian loan that can be used to build new blocks, which is 56 percent of the total expected cost of the investment, i.e. an amount which is horritable. Of course, future new blocks will also have operational and decommissioning waste. On this, the Lévai Foundation writes that the cost of temporary storage and final disposal of spent fuel will be about HUF 1150 billion, or EUR 3.8 billion. This also includes the radioactive waste from the decommissioned blocks after the plant's shutdown. The total costs here can reach HUF 1600-1700 billion, i.e. the cost of waste management of existing and planned Paks blocks is the same as the Orbán government would like to build the new nuclear power plant. However, there is nothing in the decision about all of this. Therefore, it must be compared not only with environmental costs, but also with financial costs. The proposal for a decision also treats the issue of informing citizens fairly generously. Together with the implementation of a policy of information based on principles of publicity and transparency, which also highlights professional issues, it is also necessary to ensure that public opinion can be involved in decision-making. "The material, which, by the way, came before Parliament in comparison with this, has not been in any kind of social consultation before it." There is some kind of one-way information, but only in the vicinity of the planned final waste storage, even though the issue of radioactive waste is not just a matter for those living nearby. The programme does not provide a detailed description of how citizens will be effectively involved not only in information but also in making decisions. We're afraid it doesn't. In the amendment of the nuclear law, the impact area of the future waste facility has just been narrowed down to 100 metres, requiring only those living in the impact area to enter the permit procedure as a customer with real rights, thus excluding the entire country from the process. If, however, no data is public, if the government does not want to share decision-making alternatives, costs or other information with anyone, not even Members, then what national policy is Parliament's support for? And I have almost half a minute left, and I would like to say to Mr Kepli that the time of degradation of high-activity waste is hundreds of years, and given climate change and all kinds of environmental changes, there is no guarantee that this does not endanger the lives of people living in this area, and we do not think that in cases where it is not yet possible to place high-activity waste, the Parliament can bring people into such an adventure. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-293	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I am now asking the Secretary of State whether, as the rapporteur, he wishes to speak. Mr András Aradski, State Secretary, has the floor. Here.
u2015-04-27-294	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, It's hard to comment on the debate. In substance, the general debate was repeated by repeating a number of untruths which I had challenged at the time. But it must be added that the motion before you summarises the principles, requirements and objectives of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste generated. This draft national policy, which we hope to adopt in the course of tomorrow, complies with the relevant Euratom Directive, establishes a set of conditions for a national programme for the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. [[20.40]] So this is an entry point, its starting point is that, in accordance with the Euratom Directive, nuclear waste must be placed in Hungary - a high-activity route, a small and medium-activity route. In this current international situation, there can be no debate on the basis of international legislation. Even a referendum can't change the fact that these waste needs to be disposed of. I must add that it is not only waste from two new reactors related to the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but also waste currently in the temporary storage facilities of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Therefore, the high-activity waste of an earlier nuclear power plant, which was built in the late '60s as a result of a decision in the early '70s, should be placed, and, as I said, there is no debate in this regard, as set out in the Euratom Directive. Many objected to the lack of information. I would have preferred that criticism if the quality of the information was challenged, because then we could talk about something, we could talk about something in substance. But the lack of information simply does not correspond to the facts, honourable Members. It should be noted that in the past few weeks and months, we have carried out a detailed presentation of what is expected to be the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in 40 municipalities. Each mayor's office in the 40 settlements left the more than two thousand pages of environmental impact assessment with all the drawings and all the annexes. This environmental impact assessment is also available at Paks II. can be viewed on its website by anyone, so we are fully on public ground in this respect. I must say that all the people involved - I personally participated in these - and the localities in the area, and the citizens of the 40 settlements, all spoke highly informedly, professionally and committedly about the expansion of capacity, with a positive content. They, I see, are much wiser in many ways than a significant part of opposition representatives. Another topic is the issue of high-activity, deep-geological waste. In this, too, when people say that there is insufficient information, I mention that there is a settlement contribution in West Mecsek, which includes not only Boda, but also a number of other settlements, and those settlements have an information park. If someone goes to Boda, the way he gets in from Pécs, next to the football field, so not in a traffic-locked area, there is a very well-designed, extraordinary depth-informed park, and regional publications also serve to inform the population. I told the other day in the general debate that the debate, the demand for how we will decide on this container, is taking place prematurely, because at the moment there is about 82 square kilometers of research that is trying to prove that this type of geological rock, the boda clay stone, can be suitable for the preparation of such a container. When this happens, the authorisation will be launched in accordance with the usual nuclear law, determined publicity and steps, with more detailed investigations, more detailed official authorisations and full disclosure of the necessary information, which can be found both on the association's website and in the information parks and in the publications to date. Pécs is eight kilometers away - I was ironically told by the Boda people: why should they buy a bus ticket of 20 kilometers? This is thanks to the transport company in Pécs. So that's where you can argue, but as I said, it's 82 square kilometers. It is possible, it is possible, that this final storage will not be closer to Pécs, but much further, in another place. This research area is quite large, and in this respect I say that it is premature to focus on this. And here it is, please, fellow Members, the responsibility of all of us. If we assume that Paks I., the waste of the current power plant, is mandatory in Hungary, then we have a great responsibility to ensure that on the contrary - and respectfully I ask the LMP representatives to think about what they are saying - there is no way to create a mood in a hysterical political debate that prevents the obligation to place in this country by means of legislation, international conventions, which our government has not otherwise joined. We must strive to ensure that we all contribute to ensuring that this waste is disposed of safely and in good conditions. I do not want to go into the arithmetical debate that it is 700 billion forints in present value, the cost of permanent placement and the cost of decommissioning. That number, the thousand-thousand billion forints they said, what I know, what is the value projected by 2050. It is very important to be constructive in this regard. Corruption - Congressman Kepli. The way I see it, politics doesn't contain any elements of corruption. I don't know how the boots get on the table, politics doesn't contain corruption elements. Politics is voting for the public, and the instruments formulated in politics have so far been used by the public, see Boda information, see the availability and appearance of an environmental impact study on Paks II. I believe that I wholeheartedly recommend your political acceptance to this House and ask for your support in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-295	Secretary of State, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. The Commission's reports and the discussion of the summary amendment submitted for the proposal to amend the Authority's revenue in connection with the settlement of revenue. The submission is T/4020. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee for Sustainable Development as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/400/2/2. I, and T/4002/3. was given to them. T/400/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment. and the summary report is T/400/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. This will take 15 minutes. I give the floor first to the rapporteur of the committee, Congressman Dénes Galambos. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 23 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act T/4020 on the amendment of Act T/4020 on the settlement of administrative revenue Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the seven-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Sustainable Development, with paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 7 supported by 25 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Points 3, 5 and 6 of the amendment are included in the Legislative Committee's own amendment, which was adopted by 25 votes in favour and four abstentions. [[20.50]] The need to amend the law is justified by the obligation to comply with EU law and by the establishment of simpler and more transparent rules in line with the practice of law enforcement in recent years. 517/2014, which provides for a regulation on fluorogas. A single, complex and comprehensive obligation to record and process data under the EU Regulation requires a significant burden, a high degree of attention, precision and discipline from the National Climate Protection Authority. The activities related to gases responsible for warming shall be carried out only by qualified undertakings under Union law and by qualified natural persons in their application. EU legislation lays down that qualifications and examinations may be carried out by officially designated certification and evaluation bodies. To this end, it is essential to specify how and in what way, in the case of the authority itself, it can do so, in accordance with the detailed rules and requirements. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-27-297	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-27-298	Not now, thank you.
u2015-04-27-299	All right. I would like to remind you that you have 10 minutes later, by the way. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur for the designated Committee for Sustainable Development. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The Parliament's Committee for Sustainable Development is the resolution house rule 32. At its meeting on 8 April 2015, LX of 2007 on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol, as designated committee pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 1. T/4020. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. Having examined the bill, the committee concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article, i.e. it complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system and also complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law and the professional requirements of legislation. The bill provides for the introduction of a system of charges for the proper performance and implementation of the tasks of the National Climate Protection Authority. The mandatory task of the Authority comes from directly applicable EU law regulations, which require an adequate financial background for the performance of this task. In addition to reducing entrepreneurial burdens, the new charging system also covers the costs associated with the establishment and operation of the National Climate Protection Authority, so that the operation and operation of the Authority does not involve the central budget, it can provide it with its own revenue. The planned charging scheme represents an average reduction of between 25 and 40 per cent for the relevant market sector compared to the fees paid since 2009. The Authority's fee shall ensure the performance of regular official control tasks, the creation of specific physical and material conditions, the maintenance and operation of the climate gas database covering the whole sector, the maintenance of training systems, the performance of certification and testing tasks. In this context, it lays down appropriate legislation on the regime for the payment of official supervisory fees, which also ensures transparency as regards the clearance of fees collected. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee, at its meeting on 8 April, expressed its own intention to amend, so that the House Rules of Decision 45. Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Commission has tabled a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate and has closed the in-depth debate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Commission tabled a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article and closed the in-depth debate. (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. ) The amending proposal contains clarification as to which undertakings and natural persons may carry out the fluorinated greenhouse...
u2015-04-27-301	Please close the presentation of the opinion.
u2015-04-27-302	... their activities in relation to gases and their qualifications. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2015-04-27-303	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, who will present the Commission's minority opinion. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-304	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to inform you that, in principle, we have been given only two minutes to speak, and I reserve one minute of my minority opinion to my fellow Member, Anita Heringes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, There is a systematic criticism that the arguments expressed in the general debate will be repeated in the final debate. This is partly because, despite trying to convince the government of certain aspects of what needs to be changed, what is the view that if this does not happen in the detailed debate, unfortunately we can only repeat our previous reservations in the final debate. The main point of view of the legislation is that it does not want to reduce emissions, but rather to make emissions pay and, as far as possible, to create a fuller income background to provide adequate resources for the financing of the authority to be set up. The overall approach and environmental policy objective of the Kyoto Convention is to reduce emissions of gases that are dangerous to the climate and, where possible, to implement climate-friendly policies and economic development that prevent such hazardous gases from entering the airspace. This legislation is about allowing any economic operator to do so in its entirety, and only wanting to have its price paid. Unfortunately, from the Kyoto Protocol as a whole, the government continues to understand only as much as from climate policy that this is an opportunity to collect money and generate extra revenue. For this reason, it is completely against the Kyoto Convention because it does not contribute to the level of emissions of gases harmful to climate. Similarly, we have reservations about establishing this independent level of authority, since the Green Authority was abolished on 1 April, they said that there is a bureaucracy reduction, compared to this there is an opaque power and an opaque authority to establish a new system for collecting this fee. In our view, this does not serve to improve the country's climate policy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-27-305	Congresswoman Anita Heringes, please.
u2015-04-27-306	Thank you very much for the floor. The reason why we wanted to give a minority opinion is the criticism of Fidesz's climate policy. As we have said several times at the committee meeting and here too, since 2010, while the Fidesz-KDNP government is making the management of our entire domestic quota assets inaccessible and with minimal efficiency, only a quarter of the stadiums have been spent by the state to modernise the energy efficiency of family homes. They had the opportunity, the program was given, but you stopped it, and when it was restarted, they realized that it was the application system created by the MSZP that stood up and should have continued. Maybe you shouldn't have stopped him. The EU's climate policy is generally not challenged by the government on the open front, but it does not do much to ensure effective restraint. In addition, it is said that in the background, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to ease the EU's obligations. We believe that the climate policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government is not acceptable. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-307	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. Thank you very much, I know I'm very talented at reading these exciting sentences, which is obviously what the applause was for. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have made themselves known in writing, and first, in the list of speakers that have been announced, it is for Mrs Anita Heringes to have the opportunity to speak, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-308	Thank you very much. The MSZP takes the view that climate protection is an environmental issue that requires modern and responsible economic policy solutions. This is what we do not see with the Fidesz-KDNP government, because as long as the zero-emission wind and solar power plants are built on EU funds in Western Europe, in other EU Member States and in neighbouring countries, they have been practically stopped in Hungary, the Orbán government has not invested in renewable and green energy, and in recent years penalty taxes have been imposed on them. Congratulations are all we can do. At the time of the change of government in 2010, Kyoto quota assets worth HUF 300 billion have now lost their worth, and this could have been due to the misalignment of your climate quota. The share of the quota was about 10 million units at the time of the government change in 2010, which would have been HUF 54 billion at the stock exchange price at that time. [[21.00]] The State Audit Office's report focused on quota sales in 2012. According to the report, nine companies registered for purchase in 2011-12, but for formal reasons no sales relationship was established. Despite the fact that NFM's experts predicted a price of EUR 7-14 by 2012, the offers were received at EUR 9-10 per unit price, and you managed to sell them at the lowest price, below EUR 3 per unit price. Thus, the loss of assets from failed sales was nearly HUF 5.4 billion, which, in the energy efficiency programme, could have been used in the panel program if you had not stopped it. The bad decisions of recent years prove that Fidesz made a huge mistake when, at the meeting of the Parliament's Environment Committee on 6 April 2010, it was prohibited to sell Kyoto quota units at a unit price of 7.6 euros. It has now not only turned out that sales at that time were completely legal and legal, but also that left-wing governments could have sold some of the quota assets at a much better price. Thus, Hungary has not only lost its revenue potential because of Fidesz's mistake, but because of the bad decision of the current governing party, there has been a lack of collateral in the panel program that they have not been able to replace until today. You know, even in the most difficult period of the crisis, between 2008 and 10, 300,000 housing units were being renovated by left-wing governments during the really toughest years of the economic crisis. On average, it's almost 100,000 a year. In any case, if you look at your numbers, in 2011 you were able to support 4045 residential units and in 2012 you were able to support 1082 units. The government of Viktor Orbán caused the budget to lose tens of billions of HUF due to its poor quota sales policy. A professionally appropriate sale would have meant a secure order for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and a real and sustainable reduction of the daily cost of living for hundreds of thousands of families. 'Cause, you know, that's the real rent cuts you don't have to pay. Unfortunately, the government led by Viktor Orbán has failed to understand this to this day. They would have had the opportunity to implement a panel programme of similar size, which left-wing governments did. Therefore, we will not be able to support this bill. We should consider how climate protection and climate policy can be done properly in Hungary as well. Thank you.
u2015-04-27-309	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli is the next speaker, Jobbik.
u2015-04-27-310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! On Jobbik's part, we have always been a little sceptical about these climate policy measures. As I said in the general debate, in the part about quota revenues, various bureaucracy in relation to climate protection and the establishment of authorities and organisations, we do not believe very much. The reason we do not believe very much is because, although the European Union is trying to be at the forefront of this climate protection policy, at least in appearances, it actually results in European companies that are or are based in countries where the Kyoto Convention and the European Union regulations are in place, exporting their polluting activities outside the European Union to countries that are not yet party to this convention. So overall, if you look at the entire planet Earth, because climate change cannot be limited to one country, it is a process that affects the entire Earth, with no positive benefits. In fact, additional journeys and deliveries make the total CO2 balance even more negative. We therefore believe that climate protection, prevention and reduction of climate change can be prevented most effectively by energy efficiency measures and, obviously, by modernising energy production. In fact, this debate on quota revenues here between the Fidesz and the MSZP is false because it is absolutely not about climate protection and it is not about protecting the climate of the Earth. After all, with quota revenues, we only sell the right to pollution to another country. It is true that these quotas, the total quota, are falling year after year, but the situation is still that, on the one hand, the pollution transport and exports I have just mentioned are taking place in countries which are not parties to the Convention, and, on the other hand, these quota revenues are calculated as different sources of income and budgetary revenue by successive governments. Thus, in such legislative proposals, where various administrative, bureaucratic measures are being taken to promote climate protection, we do not see much reason. In fact, if, in December, at the Earth Summit in Paris, the climate summit, there is no agreement in which all major polluting or carbon-emitting countries will participate and participate, then this whole game that the European Union is playing here is actually a storm in a glass of water. After all, it will have a minor impact on the entire CO2 household. Nevertheless, it is necessary to continue the activities and actions that serve energy efficiency, because they also stimulate the economy, because they lead to job creation, because they promote a real long-term reduction of Hungarian families, which is not based on regulated prices, but on real savings. Thus, everyone benefits from this in the longer term, but the price is that the government should provide greater support for such investments and not charge, for example, renewable energy equipment with different product charges, 27 per cent VAT and so on. This is the real way to fight climate change, and we have always supported this part, and we can always support it, but we will no longer be able to do so by means of pretending measures, tightening administrative rules, possibly increasing the burden on businesses. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-311	Thank you very much. Our next speaker was Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here.
u2015-04-27-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have said my own professional opinion in the committee, which is obviously, as has been said, that this draft legislation itself cannot manage to reduce emissions. Our party also has a dissent of principle on this matter, which I would like to present now. The bill seems to be about climate change, climate protection, the Kyoto Protocol, in fact, about the fact that the Fidesz majority of governments are once again nationalising a market-based activity, increasing administrative burdens and the costs of businesses. The proposal begins with the following text:. Businesses shall have the right to carry out any fluorinated greenhouse gas-related activity only with the certificate of qualification issued by the authority responsible for climate protection. The undertaking shall, after obtaining a certificate of qualification, comply with its registration obligation as defined in the Government Decree issued for the implementation of this Act. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In fact, this is already the case with regard to the conditions for activities relating to fluorinated greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances dated 18 February 201514/2015. under a government regulation under which climate gas regulation and related enforcement tasks are assigned to the National Climate Protection Authority. Only now, however, will the legal conditions be created afterwards. The fact that the National Climate Protection Authority has been established and created is quite difficult to find out based on this information. The primary task of the Authority would be to register fluorinated gases or undertakings engaged in such gases. The effectiveness of this task is explained by the fact that the so-called climate gas database, which the previous operator operated without fault, has now been unavailable for months. It is also unclear why the whole restructuring, the creation of a new public organisation, was necessary at the dawn of bureaucracy reduction. Fluorinated greenhouse gas activities, businesses and the registration of qualifications have been operating in Hungary since 2009, on the basis of EU legislation. Since its establishment in 1993, the Federation of Refrigeration and Climate Engineering Enterprises has organised and managed the professional qualification training and registration of refrigeration and air conditioning installers. Based on this professional basis, the association established the technical, personnel and company rating system of the mandatory compaction and leakage testing system, following EU practice. [[21.10]] At the end of 2008, the Ministry of the Environment, which existed at the time, issued a public tender for this task. This is not a multi- and not a good party association, but a professional organisation of the sector, the HLH Monitoring Nonprofit Kft., established by the Association of Refrigerating and Climate Technology Enterprises which has done its work in the meantime. He won, so the minister appointed this organisation to carry out the tasks of the National Monitoring and Qualification Board, which the European Commission was also informed about. The HLH system is so well-functioning that the certificates it issues are accepted in all Member States of the European Union, except Hungary. Hungary is the only place where the businesses and businesses concerned have to re-registered with this legislation, now with the new public authority, paying a much higher fee for registration and annual supervision than before. So obviously my party's position is the same as mine, because it says the same thing, and our party's experts say that it's not climate protection, it's a simple withdrawal from businesses. I would like to draw attention in my short time to the fact that the opposition is not fighting everything and not speaking against everything. The Fidesz Government and Fidesz Parliamentary Representatives created the adaptation or adaptation strategy, for which to date there is no substantial source, and to date, the government has no meaningful background to its implementation. The work on climate protection that started earlier in Fidesz has been looking forward to bringing the adaptation tasks of climate change effects to society, creating obligations for local governments and governments to do. In addition, with a preventive approach, it sought to address climate protection tasks by reducing emissions. While the implementation of this previous Fidesz initiative, which we believe can be strongly supported by professional support and can only be practically agreed on in many ways, is still without government will or resources, the National Climate Protection Authority will be set up with completely opaque tasks of competence and competence. For this reason, we cannot support the legislative proposal in this way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-27-313	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond now. [[Zsolt Szabó: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2015-04-27-314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Interesting points have been made, which are not really related to the bill, but I will try to answer them with a few corner ideas, try to explain why we are not on the right track and why we should be on the right track, namely the honourable opposition parties that are here. I urge everyone in advance to calmly support the legislation before us, because what it is about is a positive idea. The climate database is intended to regulate its official surveillance and control activities and to provide its main pillar; it is a pillar that has been carried out by an undertaking owned by the air-conditioning companies and a system of education that has so far been more expensive and under more difficult conditions by 15-16 educational institutions. This has led to two features in the area of climate policy and the installation of such appliances in recent years. One is that it was installed by foreign mechanics, and the other is that without any degree, companies continued this activity by sending out mechanics who were trained to do this work. By the way, I would like to point out that the exam will be about HUF 12,000 cheaper than what has been in this state. It is the responsibility of the Authority to create a real, reliable overall picture in this market and in this opaque system; to create a database that complies with EU legislation, complies with Hungarian standards and will mean a transparent system for everyone. In view of this, I am convinced that this bill is an essential part of the regulation and that it is important to comply with it. Some of the little things that are connected to this. One thing is the issue of quota sales. Am I hearing this right? I sell quota, that's the exchange rate, that's what I get, not that much. It's like I'm remembering a law we used to call a foreign exchange law and maybe it's just been amended and regulated. It seems that certain things have changed there, too, and we are trying to make this issue more orderly. But there is one thing I do not hear, Madam honourable Member: in 2009, you left the bill of 14 billion unpaid panel programs with other pens for the next period. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: He came out of a stadium!]] Who paid for that? [[A stadium!]] It's been paid, arranged. By the way, I would just like to point out that in the last six months only HUF 30 billion of tender money has been written out for solar panels. [[Anita Herring: It's been taxed!]] And once the methane program is in place, we can make even more progress. The cost of solar panels decreased by about 40 percent and a fee of around 1 thousand was settled, which is to be accounted for in order to protect the climate. To connect to this, there's a number that proves that we're somewhere on the right track. In Hungary, greenhouse gas emissions with CO2 equivalents are continuously decreasing and can be sold within the climate policy. The other thing I would like to draw your attention to is the disappearance of the Green Authority. Here is an authority that monitors that it is very dangerous in the field of gas emissions, which is ten thousand times more dangerous than CO2 emissions, with what system and control we can handle this matter. My fellow Members, if it is true that they are concerned about climate policy, then this is precisely the opportunity to support this change of law and to manage it at the same time. Just for the record, the family house always comes up. I also mentioned in the National Assembly on several occasions that here the Energy Efficiency Act, the new calls for proposals, HUF 120 billion for family houses only. Please take a look, you can apply, you can use renewable energy, and we hope that everyone who wants to apply for it will achieve that. I would like to refer to the 4th tender for the warm home application, which is specifically for condominiums, not only for panels but also for condominiums, which can also be used. While we're here, there's been talk of market conditions, professionalism. This legislation provides for an opportunity and a number of users have indicated that they can carry out accurate professional activities by obtaining transparent and accurate information. Do you know how many businesses and employees this means? We are talking about nearly 100,000 employees, and this is a very large market, because there are refrigerators and other devices in all areas of life. To sum up, this proposal reduces the financial burden of decent and functioning companies by 25-40 percent, making the education and testing system comprehensively transparent, and only professionals can carry out activities. I would like to ask you to take a look at all the summarised amendments in which I thank the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Sustainable Development with great respect for their support for our legislative amendment, and I thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-27-315	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy laws and the discussion of the summary amendment are coming up. István Németh Szilárd and representatives of Mengyi Roland, Fidesz, have a separate motion by T/4289. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/4289/4. and T/4289/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4289/7. and the summary report is T/4289/8. Available on the website. [[21.20]] Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-316	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/4289 was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 23 April 2015. The Commission submitted a bill amending certain energy laws and submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains a proposal of 14 points in the Economic Committee. I would like to note that 11 points of these were supported by the Legislative Committee without voting against. In particular, the amending proposal implements technical and linguistic specifications on the proposed legislation. However, as a result of the amendment, as is the case with the current offer regulation, the legislation maintains that natural gas from domestic fields produced before 1998 will be offered in order to provide universal service providers. I hope that the joint amendment of the eight energy laws will facilitate and further increase Hungary's energy independence and efficiency of its energy strategy. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-27-317	Thank you very much. The minority opinion is presented by MEP Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party did not support three of the 14 points in the committee's background at the legislative committee meeting, but the rest. As my fellow Member has mentioned, the other points 1 to 9 and points 12 to 13 and the amendments indicating them did indeed contain grammar and spelling clarifications, which were supported by the representatives of the MSZP at the committee meeting. However, points 10, 11 and 14 were not supported, since, as my fellow Member has also mentioned, points 10 and 11 concern the fixing of the offer for universal use of natural gas produced in natural gas fields that have been produced in domestic production since 1998, which, in our view, as much as this amendment tries to eliminate this, is a violation of the law of the European Union, and we have therefore not been able to support it. We have also not been able to support the last point of this series of amendments, point 14, which stated that the Gas and Trade Regulations were... [[It's a lot of noise. The voice of the fireworks before Parliament is heard in the Chamber.]] I'm sorry...
u2015-04-27-319	Don't bother, Congressman. It's all right. You just talk.
u2015-04-27-320	There's a renovation or something going on. Let us hope that there are no more serious events going on here. Therefore, point 14, which amends the deadline for the adoption of the network code in this legislation, will be transferred from 31 October to 31 May by the referral of this regulation and, obviously, the adoption by the Energy Authority. However, once this provision enters into force on 1 July, the Energy Authority will decide on the network code until 31 May of next year. This amendment could therefore not be supported. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-321	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[No signal.]] No. You have 10 minutes, by the way. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] No. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As you've been told, there's fireworks around the House, and the noises of it are coming in here, so maybe there's no such big problem. Regarding the bill, as I said in the general debate, there are eligible proposals. Allow me to point out one thing: this is the repeal of the legislation on fuel labelling. I would like to remind this House that it was here that fuel should have been supplied with an additive in order to prevent certain abuses, on which the company carrying this substance was also selected before the adoption of the legislation. Lajos Simicska's interest was classified by the press at the time. It's going to expire now. We can welcome this and support it. I would be very curious, however, if the debate and the war between the Prime Minister and Lajos Simicska had not escalated to such a level, would this provision have been repealed. But, as I said in the general debate, I would like to say briefly that, in addition to these proposals to be supported, the Socialist Party Group cannot support the entire law. As I said in the presentation of the minority opinion, certain of its provisions are, in our view, violating EU law. Despite previous government promises, the law does not address a recognised coherence problem or makes it difficult for consumers to reach customer services. One more comment. There was no answer during the general debate as to why the gas trading company of the Hungarian Electricity Company did not provide data on the development of the gas purchase price to the Hungarian energy agency, why the energy agency had to punish this otherwise state company repeatedly to remedy this failure. This has not been done to this day. Therefore, we do not even know what amounts will appear in this company because of the price change on the world market, due to the decrease in gas prices, what profits it will account for, and why this profit is not in the consumer's hands, why it will not transmit this gas price reduction to consumers in gas accounts, district heating bills and electricity bills. This bill does not give us an answer, but we did not get an answer in the debate either. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-323	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP. The effort is commendable, and it goes to the place where it can speak. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-324	My apologies, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. The problem with a significant part of these government proposals is that in many cases they contain small amendments that could even be supported by the opposition, while at the same time there is one element that prevents it from enjoying support at the same time. Obviously, according to our previous position, it is the reduction in the mining fee for shale gas that is unacceptable in this whole system, and this obviously creates the hottest point in the legislation. According to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, there will be no shale gas revolution in Hungary within a reasonable period of time, because due to the high depth and pressure in the water deposits of our country, expensive high-tech technology would have to be used for extraction, and the technical possibilities are currently being pushed to the limits of this technology. Obviously, when the author says that it is necessary to reduce the mining fee for shale gas because it is extremely expensive to extract it, he refers to this in part, but we have much more reservations about it. In the light of international experience, research into shale gas extraction is being dealt with internationally with very serious reservations, as many negative experiences of concrete pollution have emerged in Canada and America that would encourage caution in the civilised world that has not yet entered this path. During the previous one-year cycle, there have been several legislative work that has tried to pre-empt the possibilities for this shale gas to grow, and we have watched with concern all along, and so we are concerned about this draft legislation, because after the possibility of shale gas being extracted, the Hungarian State could, in total, receive the mining fee from this mining and from the Hungarian shale gas assets. [[21.30]] So if it were not for those who have the technology to extract shale gas to benefit from it, then it would have to be taken into account what the interests of Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian state and the Hungarian government would be. Obviously, it is not that by means of a risky technology, obtained by risky technology, which creates environmental hazards, it contributes to an extraction that will then be of little benefit to the Hungarian state and taxpayers, and very little public resources will come in. And with this 2 percent opportunity to reduce, the problem is that it is guaranteed that it is not enough to eliminate potential environmental risks. It is important to draw attention to this, because when the environmental risk associated with Budapest Chemicals is mentioned daily on Scenty Road, it is important to see that when the government raises its hand and says that the polluter pays the principle of finding those responsible, and those responsible do not have the background to be able to withstand this type of activity, the authority will impose a fine of HUF 49 million in vain if a compensation of 5 billion is required. In the same way, if income from shale gas extraction cannot finance the costs of its nature, size and quantity of environmental risks, which thus stands up in relation to extraction, it is clear that extraction should be considered whether this is a wise step. Once again, I would like to ask the Government with great respect that the measures that have been taken in this regard, whether in previous legislation or what has come before us at this moment, be rethinking this. I do not know exactly who and what pressure is placed on the Hungarian government in order to facilitate shale gas extraction, and I do not know who has the background to this. According to expert opinions, Gazprom may be one of these winners of this extraction, I do not know if this is a malicious assumption or if there is any basis for it, but it is certain that the experiences that have come up before warn us of caution. It is no coincidence that the Lower Tisza Environmental, Nature and Water Inspectorate has previously ordered such extraction to stop, and it is no coincidence that the rest of Europe will be treated with caution. This mining fee reduction is unacceptable to us, we think it will create a completely incorrect competitive position again, and it will highlight the possibility of generating and extracting an energy source that poses a risk to the environment, which, in this way, we are sure that our party cannot support. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-04-27-325	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-04-27-326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike Mr Sallai Benedek, I do not find it too rational that Gazprom, which holds over one of the world's largest conventional natural gas reserves, would be in the process of extracting shale gas, as there is too much reason and economics at present. On the other hand, we can see the American company Chevron, which is leaving the countries where it has been considering shale gas extraction in recent years: Bulgaria, Ukraine, Poland, and I could go on to list all the countries in the Central and Eastern European region; because, on the one hand, due to the fall in oil and gas prices, it did not consider it appropriate or it no longer considers these extractions to be economical, and, on the other hand, it may encounter resistance at local level due to environmental and other concerns, which, for the time being, it seems appropriate not to continue its activities in the Eastern-Central European region, and who knows what other reasons are behind it. It is true, however, that Jobbik cannot support this bill, as the reduction of the mining fee for shale gas related to the exploitation of shale gas from 12 percent to 2 percent cannot be supported on our part. On the one hand, we have a shale gas resource, which is true that it is under our feet, and it may be a solution in the future to reduce Hungary's energy dependence, but I do not think that it is in the current technological methods, conditions and not in the context of environmental concerns. As long as chemicals need to be used to extract this can endanger our drinking water bases, we cannot give our support with a good conscience and a calm conscience. On the other hand, this is a strategic mineral wealth, just like our carbon stock or other energy carriers, if any. We don't necessarily need to find the company who produces this as a consideration for offering some kind of discount right now and at all costs. At the moment, Hungary's natural gas supply is still guaranteed, and only from this shale gas supply it is clear that in the long term it would not be possible to supply gas to Hungary in itself. We need to find those external sources, whether Azerbaijani, Iranian or Russian gas, or Algerian or from any other source; perhaps if all of them were the safest for Hungary at the same time. The fact is that we cannot avoid conventional natural gas stocks, but we are faced with an environmental risk and a fall in mining income, obviously due to the reduction that does not make this eligible for us. I know, Mr. Secretary of State will say that if we don't cut the mining fee, then no one will apply, because then it will certainly not be economical for businesses to produce it. In that case, I say you don't have to grow it. Then we have to wait until this becomes economically profitable, profitable at a good price, and perhaps with even greater benefits, the value of this will only increase later, and perhaps the environmental risk can be reduced if the technology develops to the point of not pumping different harmful, toxic chemicals underground in order to do so. So, despite the eligible parts, mainly because of this shale gas extraction, we will not be able to support this bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-327	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State András Aradszki has applied for a statement. Here.
u2015-04-27-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, They are very repeated again in the general debate. I must add here that there has been a very important addition to this proposal, namely the offer order is regulated by the Opinion of the Economic Committee. This is also important because the Hungarian government is committed to maintaining the power to reduce the costs and as few people remember it, but it is always necessary to say that it should be better recorded so that more people remember that at the end of 2012 the government decided to reduce the burden on families. In 2011, domestic customers of Bulgaria, Hungary, Sweden and Slovenia paid the highest gas prices and, in order to decide by the government, prices in the energy sector were significantly reduced in 2013 and 14 compared to prices for the same consumption for the general public in 2012. For an average family, an average consumer, this decline in the case of natural gas, for example, resulted in savings of approximately HUF 55,000, which, I believe, made living significantly and noticeably easier for the Hungarian population, the Hungarian citizens. I mentioned this because the government remains committed to it, and the Fidesz-KDNP party association itself, in order to ensure a reduction in the costs and to protect it against a possible EU requirement system, and therefore the bill requires the continuation of the practice so far, i.e. the offer of free natural gas sources to universal service providers of state-owned natural gas dealers with import contracts. This proposal will be adopted by October 2016 and will allow the re-access of universal service providers to sources of natural gas at official prices to maintain the value of the reduction in costs. [[21.40]] As has been said today in Parliament's debate, the government is also committed to continuing the reduction in overhead costs in the future. Reducing the mining fee from 12 percent to 2 percent, you are mistaken, Congressman, I will not say that I did not say in the general debate that we reduced it in order to make non-conventional natural gas production more profitable. I also said that we did not reduce the mining fee from 12 to 2 percent, but we set a 2-percent mining fee for non-conventional extraction. This is not alien to the practices of the Mining Law, there is also 8 percent, 12 percent and 2 percent mining fee for various mining activities, and compared to the fact that the amount of non-conventional extraction is currently equal to zero molecules, so it is not a loss of revenue in the event that, if we are not producing natural gas in Hungary in a conventional way, but we are talking about budgetary revenue growth, it is an increase compared to zero, and I just have to say that my fellow Members do not like to hear people trying to explain to you the actual situation. I would like to add one more thing about this unconventional extraction. I believe that from the point of view of energy security in Hungary, we need to capture all the elements of energy supply, energy security, so it is true, possible and likely that gas can be obtained from other sources in the long term, but the Hungarian energy strategy is aimed at reducing dependence, saying that it is independent of dependence, and that it can be a good tool for extracting hydrocarbon sources from non-conventional sources, and, of course, as an alternative, it can serve as a competitor to hydrocarbons from other sources. But even before going so far, I also said in the general debate that it is not a matter of producing hydrocarbons from non-conventional sources here tomorrow, because we still need to take further steps to determine, in view of the environmental risks mentioned here and the environmental risks experienced elsewhere, that we can establish a legal, technical system, a standard system that limits this risk to the minimum. On this, I believe that we must work together, together with you, your experts, in cooperation, because we in Parliament have the responsibility not to have any legal unregulatedness that may hinder the creation of our values, or to have legislation that opens up opportunities for abuse and risk. This is what the government will be working on, and I ask for your support for this by hoping that, after what I have said, they will be able to support the bill in the vote tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-27-329	Thank you, too. Mr Lajos Kepli has applied for a statement against the time frame of his performance.
u2015-04-27-330	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to Mr. Secretary of State's words. So, from this point of view, it was not really the point that he reduced it from 12 to 2 percent, the point is that the law establishes a 2-percent mining fee, a low-level, 2-percent mining fee; obviously relative to what is low, what is not, and I consider 2 per cent to be. Mr. State Secretary also said that there is no emergency situation at the moment that the extraction of this non-conventional gas supply is necessary for Hungary's security of supply - then let's not talk about shale gas, but rather about non-conventional or non-traditional gas supply. Then in this case, I do not understand why it is necessary to open this possibility. Mr. Secretary of State said that this does not mean that there will be shale gas here tomorrow or any other unconventionally mined gas brought to the surface. Then why do we have to start right now by establishing a mining fee for it in the Mining Act, and by adapting its other conditions to environmental and other rules later on? I think that if Hungary's natural gas supply is ensured at the moment, we should be careful, think about future generations, and reserve this gas supply for times when we are not sure that Hungary's natural gas supply will be ensured in the same way. The necessary legislation, if time is tight and we are pressed for time, can be passed through Parliament in a few weeks, and if this is really necessary and Hungary's supply will depend on it, I think that all parties will also give their support to this. However, if the government is really committed to reducing the costs, then there is nothing more to be done than this shale gas section, the mining fee section for shale gas, the mining law amendment will be taken out of this proposal, and Jobbik will be willing to vote if the content of the legislation that comes before us is the same. This is not exactly the way to reduce the costs, because it is clear that it is not through shale gas extraction that we will be able to obtain affordable gas for Hungarian consumers, but rather to think or strive to provide natural gas to consumers in a traditional way with diversified gas supply. So we have the natural gas, the non-traditional gas supply, and we will have that for decades, and I will say once again, if the need so requires, it is necessary to produce them at any time in order to ensure the security of supply of Hungary, and if the technological conditions are such that they do not compromise - we must add this - we will be able to create a water base for Hungary and a legislative environment so that the government can guarantee that this shale gas can be produced without environmental risks, then Jobbik will also, obviously not be able to speak on behalf of the other opposition parties, give its consent at any time to the legislation that we can start to extract non-traditional gas stocks in order to ensure the security of supply of Hungary, up to 5 years, 10 years or even a number of years if the conditions are given. Now is not the time, I think, for the moment, for this reason I see no justification for a 2-percent mining fee, or even if it were 4%, 5%, I would not consider it justified, and I think that it will come sometime in the future. It is obvious that different parties think differently, that the current party of government will have the right to believe that it is taking this measure now, and that it cannot count on our support in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-331	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I do not see any other candidate Members; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-332	Yes, Mr President, some thoughts. I also said in the general debate that the bill that I have tabled - which I have broadly agreed with the Ministry, the Energy Office, all stakeholders - does not want to address all the problems in the world, nor does it want to address all the energy and energy issues, nor can it provide answers to shale gas phobia, Russia-phobia or Simicska-phobia. We have said that this is for a total of three purposes, and that this proposal for an amendment consists of three packages. One is the establishment of a new mining fee for unconventional or non-conventional extraction. We have said here that this has nothing to do with shale gas, not with mine assets, but with the benefit of this process, and this will not happen in the present, but in the future. So we said that I even quoted the Roman rule that the judge decides in the present and the law is for the future, so that is what we are trying to make the bed for. We also said at the TAB meeting that it doesn't always have to be 2 percent, it could be again 12 percent or 8 percent, depending on what we can get started. Moreover, this proposal also includes the ministerial response to my question on the reduction of the overhead in today's immediate question, namely that, in addition to the acquisition of 3.7 million consumers in the universal service market or the expansion of Paks and Paks in a new perspective, the Minister referred to energy efficiency as the sustainability of the reduction. [[21.50]] Energy efficiency has been interpreted by the Minister in both ways, both on the side of procurement and on the side of the service. So it is our dog's duty to make decisions now that, if you like, we can diversify purchasing, we can mobilise our own domestic supplies to provide both residents and domestic businesses with cheap and secure energy. The second package serves the same purpose, in which we are also amending a lot of consumer protection regulations, for the benefit of consumers, but the most important thing is to secure gas supply, thus to secure gas supply, to increase supply, and to ensure security. In practice, this is the only substantive change in both the amendment and the report adopted by the Economic Committee and the TAB, where natural gas from the domestic fields prior to.98 has to be offered in order to provide universal service providers. And there's a third part, which is about the fact that we've made a rule earlier on tracking oil and petroleum products imported from abroad. This was included in this system at the request of the NAV, but then, when the tests were carried out, it turned out that it was only possible to label it with a substance the use of which makes this regulation doubtful, so that we do not want to introduce this regulation or to abolish the rules already adopted. Thank you very much for the Government's support, thank you very much for the summary amendment, and I will obviously support this, and I would also ask my fellow Members to support the improved adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-27-333	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2014 CII on the banning of work in the retail sector on Sunday. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/4037. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/4037/6. was given to them. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Enterprise Development as a committee on the subject of a detailed debate T/4037/4. and T/4037/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4037/8. and the summary report is T/4037/9. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to László Vécsey, within a maximum of eight minutes, to the rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-27-334	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 23 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2014 CII on the prohibition of Sunday work in the retail sector. T/4037. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee submitted its own amendment, which was supported by our committee by 25 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstention. CII of 2014 on the prohibition of Sunday work in the retail sector. During the period between the adoption and entry into force of the Act, the Government has continuously monitored the mechanism of the law's operation, its effects, and has continuously monitored the comments and opinions received; it continues to strive to find a balance between debate and action in this area and within the framework of this Act. In relation to the assessment of the proposals and comments received, the amendment is essentially concentrated around three main points. One is that, on the basis of the comments received, the text of the law, as stated by the Government, cannot be justified on a principle basis between the sale of the world heritage and the sale on Sunday in the non-world heritage area, so that the law seeks to correct this for workers. A further change, which is caused by the amendment of the law, is a technical amendment, according to which the sale from vending machines is not covered by the law, and this is categorically listed in the law, since it does not require the use of a labour force. There is also a circle in the amendment of the law that contains, in essence, clarification, which is capable of eliminating coherence. In fact, this regulates opening hours in such a way that, compared to the original, it allows for earlier opening hours on working days and leads them through the relevant points of the law. Following the debate, our committee adopted the summarised amendment by 23 votes to four, with no abstentions. I ask this House in tomorrow's vote to support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-27-335	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Here.
u2015-04-27-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The justification of the bill is incredibly cynical and allow me to quote:. The government is determined to find the right proportion of debate, agreement, agreement and action, so it seeks more consultation, consultation and as a result of this agreement..I think that before the adoption of the law, a large part of the society rejected this law, and that before the adoption of the law there should have been various consultations, because, as we know, all the professional organisations have taken a negative position on the original law, as well as the vast majority of trade unions, but as a number of public opinion polls have confirmed, a large part of the society has rejected this law, the provision that shops should be closed on Sunday. The same position is now held by the mayors of the Balaton settlements, and the mayor and representatives of the municipality of Venice, since they are asking for an exemption from this provision. But I will envelop in advance that several cities will want to take advantage of this opportunity to be open in their territory, in their settlements, as what is the difference between a city of Venice or even a city of Pécs in terms of tourist visits. So there will be a series of requests and demands for shops to be open in a given settlement. We have heard certain numbers from the Secretary of State on the Legislative Committee. It was a calculation of my own, wasn't it? I asked him how this was going to happen. We have learned that according to data obtained from the National Tax and Customs Office's online cash machine system, retail sales have increased significantly since the shops were closed on Sunday. It is true that, in my memory, the Ministry compared a five-week average to a three-week average in which, of course, the weekend before Easter and Easter, when they were open on Sunday, the shops took the opportunity to be open once out of five times during the year, so it included this. This would have been about the same comparison as comparing the pre-Christmas period with the Christmas period, as we know that households and Hungarian families buy much more around Easter, since they are preparing for the holiday after fasting, their consumption increases much more during family events. [[22.00]] So I think that this comparison, in the short term and with such parameters, cannot be meaningful. So we'll find out later how that affected us. The amendment of the law, which was tabled, highlighted another problem, which we may not even have taken out in the original law, namely that the government was authorized to lay down different rules, thus making exceptions. Here at the Legislative Committee, I also said that this could again be an opportunity, as in many cases, whether in tobacco dogs, traffikmúti or even at the mallstop, that shops close to Fidesz would be exempted. And I also raised at the committee's meeting that, since the legislation provides that, in the light of the specifics of the municipality, in particular the needs of the service of tourism, shopping habits, employees and the interests of the living environment, the government may lay down rules other than those of this law for the opening of the shops, so that, when it comes to local circumstances, the local tourist information, local shopping habits, why not the municipalities have the right to decide whether or not the shops may be open in their settlements, and then they would not be in such an awkward situation that the mayor elected from their own party would turn to the press and ask that the shops in his settlement should be open, because your great decision and your great idea are called into question by your fellow parties in these settlements. So even in the future, it would be worth abolishing this legislation in our view on the one hand and making it possible to keep it open on Sunday, and if they are already referring to local features, then it would be worth allowing local authorities to decide for themselves. So you're in a party, in a party family, I guess there are mayors with KDNP, you can discuss where the difference is possible. Although it would be much better to take into account the needs and interests of consumers and Hungarian people and abolish this legislation. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-27-337	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if he wants to react now. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, the government has had a great deal of consultation in the context of the law on the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sunday, partly before the Parliament had accepted this, because when the proposal was submitted by its representatives, the Ministry of National Economy also negotiated the content of the law with the organisations concerned, i.e. the various professional organisations, trade unions and even if so requested, with the representatives of individual companies. So it is certainly not possible to say that the intention of the government to negotiate would not have surrounded the summary of the experience of this law, whether in its adoption or in the subsequent period, because the Government, and in particular the Ministry of National Economy, has done everything in its power to enable all professional actors, all interested parties, to express their views at the highest possible level. Since the law was adopted, and since it came into force, the government has been following up on comments about the law, and it has to be said that there have been a lot of comments, including from the opposition, let me mention, for example, why retail units may be open at world heritage sites on Sunday, while otherwise there is no alternative. Of course, the opposition has not submitted such a bill, but the government has listened to this criticism, listened to the other comments, and has now proposed it on the basis of these comments. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] that this privilege, which was previously enshrined in the law in relation to world heritage sites, should be abolished. After all, the bill protects workers so that they cannot be forced to work on Sunday against their will, and in this context there is no significant difference between workers at world heritage sites or at other locations. So workers at world heritage sites also have the same protection as those who otherwise do not work at world heritage sites. Obviously, the rights and interests of employees are not affected by the sale of vending machines, since there is typically no personal service, but after a supply of goods the service is automatic, especially, say, the vending machines, which are extremely popular. Consequently, the problem of working on Sundays does not arise there, and this should therefore be excluded from the scope of the law. However, in addition to the interests of trade workers, it is appropriate to take into account the interests of others, and thus, on the basis of comments made here in Parliament, the legislator thought that shops could be opened earlier on retail days than 6 hours, because many people may be going to work at 6:00 in the morning, so that they had the difficulty of buying their breakfast early in the morning, the bouquet, Paris or just what they wanted to eat at work that day. Therefore, the government proposes, in agreement with the Legislative Committee, that the 6:00 a.m. start be changed significantly earlier, so it can be kept open for retail days from 4:30 p.m. And, of course, the government not only follows the different opinions in the context of the law, but also whether the frightening predictions about tens of billions, perhaps some who said that more than HUF 200 billion of tax revenue would fall out of the law, because retail sales would decrease to such an extent, whether or not it is justified, and whether or not these former concerns will actually become real. And the fact is, we have an excellent tool with which we have quite accurate data. So we don't have to deal with estimates, but with the online cash machine data at the NAV, we can track how retail sales are doing on a daily basis, not for millions of forints, but forints, we know exactly what day retail sales were. And the conclusion can be drawn from this - here I would like to clarify Mr Tóth's comment - is that in the nine whole weeks since the beginning of this year, which preceded the entry into force of the law, what was the average retail turnover for one week, and we also looked at the average retail turnover for five weeks since then. In principle, if those who said there was going to be a huge collapse, reduced retail sales and lost hundreds of billions in taxes, then retail sales would have to decrease. But that is not what happened, but it is quite clear - we can now say with the data - that the increase in retail sales continued after the entry into force of the law. Based on the latest data, we can say that this increase in traffic was almost 8 percent. So when I was at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we had a 7 percent close-up, and now we can say that this expansion was almost 8 percent. The fact is that we have always said that, and it seems that we were right in this regard, that the volume of retail sales does not depend essentially on opening hours - this is what we have seen here, too, that Sunday traffic has shifted to other days, typically Fridays and mainly Saturdays and Mondays - but the volume of retail sales depends essentially on how much money people have. If people have more money and trust in the future, they will spend more. And they actually have more money because real wages have increased, inflation is very low, and people are not only making more money, but more people are earning because there are significantly more people in Hungary than they were before. [[22.10]] This also includes the fact that important decisions have been made over the past period on the issue of foreign exchange loans. So people are confident that they will have more money in the future. Those who have carried their money into the bank seem to have started buying now; we hope that things that they really need and that they can make their family's lives better. With these in mind, I ask the Parliament to vote in favour of the proposals supported by the Legislative Committee and to accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-27-339	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, if you wish to comment, you will have 2 minutes and 20 seconds as rapporteur. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up is Congressman Nándor Gúr, from the group of MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State Secretary Glattfelder is talking about negotiations. Well, we haven't seen many of these, and we haven't even seen any impact studies. There were times when there was an impact assessment, there were times when it wasn't, there were times when it wasn't found, God knows what happened to it. So, it was a mess around this case that didn't eat a secretary of state anymore. Mr. Secretary of State Tallai is no longer coming here, they're sending someone else. So, they can't keep putting their faces on the case. My fellow Members Harrach, Szatmáry, Mengyi, Becsó, Vas, who are not here now, of course, have expressed conflicting opinions, even sometimes contradicting themselves, and even tabled amendments to the matter and then withdrawn them. So, there's been a lot going on in this thing. Orbán's words ring in my ear when he said that in this country, if forced, the shops will be open on Sunday, until people earn as much in five days as they need to live a decent life. I would like to tell you that 4.3 million people have now made personal income tax returns - based on closed year, NAV data - 2.2 million people have failed to reach their minimum living income monthly, according to their declarations. So the situation didn't get better, it got worse. Wages are down, they're not up. The minimum wage is worth five thousand HUF less in purchasing power than in 2010. I could say a thousand more things, but I don't want to bore you with that, because I can see the word doesn't reach your ears, let alone your brains. It can't even reach their ears. 2012, work code. Remember, when the afternoon allowance for allowances was abolished, the night allowance was reduced to 30 percent, the Sunday allowance was halved, the allowances, the allowances, the allowances were remembered. I'm only bringing this up because I've been told here about a lot of debates, that people won't lose their wages for extended afternoon shifts, but they won't lose, and then the afternoon allowance...! What afternoon allowances? If the afternoon allowance is terminated, despite the extended shift, the bonus is equal to zero forints for the extended shift. So they're fooling people and everyone else who comes near you, they think they're painting a reality picture. Look, if it's a Sunday job, it doesn't matter if it's in trade or anywhere, if it's a Sunday job, it's a 100% pay bonus. I think it's the least I can do. Once in this debate, my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, said that he did, of course, support this. Secretary of State, confirm that the Christian Democrats have made a motion for the whole story. If you have already accepted that this is good, then you will also accept your proposal that you will pay 100% of your salary wherever you have to work on Sundays! They called for a restriction on customs. They broke people's customs. They also cancel jobs, even if they deny it. They also reduce their pay, even if they deny it. In fact, the activity they are pursuing even results in budget losses. But if not, share their views with the VOSZs, or advise them not to, because if they do, it will not end well, even in the direction of economic, to say the least, destruction. Look, as far as world heritage sites are concerned, I have to say that these are world heritage sites, because there is tourism and tourism activity, which usually takes place on weekends, typically, say, Sundays. And if that is the case, it will certainly be an image - enhancement activity if there will be a hundred - foot - long snake line in front of the convenience store. It will be good for the municipalities if their business tax is reduced. They will not be able to make other improvements, but it may not be useful if jobs are reduced or pay is reduced. In addition, my fundamental philosophical problem with the matter is that people have been deprived of their own freedom of choice. Of course, they've done this before, citing the partyship of all the small people you've said, when the Labour Code, the strike law, the Internet tax, the age discount withdrawal, God knows what else they've done, land lease contracts for their benefit, of course, the way they've done and done, they've been robbed, and we can see the result of what it is, they've already killed the story. So, you've brought a lot of misguided decisions to life. This particular case highlights all of this disability. How many submissions, how many signatures, how many protests it takes to come to their senses, so to think normally, to enforce the will and purpose of the people, and to bring about legislative amendments, and not to deal with prioritized companies by exceptional government decisions, or God don't give them Fidesz-books, so that they can keep them open here and there on Sunday, so and otherwise. Secretary of State, we should not be rambling around in this story, but creating decent laws for the benefit of the people. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2015-04-27-341	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, LMP. Here.
u2015-04-27-342	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The legislative bottom of the last five years of the government is the law on Sunday's closure. Under the circumstances, without any social consultation, without preparation, the way they beat him, sweeping all reasonable arguments off the table, and finally, as they began to polish a bad law in every respect, it is definitely a legislative low. You are wrong, President László Kövér, when you think that keeping closed on Sunday is a good, only poorly explained measure. It's a basically flawed law. The current amendment wants to fill another legal gap. Shops in the world heritage area would also be banned from opening on Sunday. The summary amendment is an unrelated amendment. What the government has now discovered is that there are people in Hungary who go to work early in the morning, who go to work at 6:00. Because of them, they would change the date of the general opening hours so that shops would not only be open between 6:00 and 22:00 a.m., but from 4:30 a.m. Instead of endless amendments to the law, it should be recognised that this measure has failed and that the law should be repealed. It was introduced at a bad time, at a bad time, without any transition, and it was not just miscommunicated. Mandatory closure is not only detrimental to retail chains, but also to the circle the government wants to benefit from, small businesses, owners of the store below 200 square meters, family entrepreneurs. The Balatoni Association, which brings together the Balaton local governments, turned to Mihály Varga in the days, asking for an exemption from Sunday's store closure from 1 May to the end of September. As much as the government wants to put family businesses in the position of this measure, this is not realistic in this form. Small shops are not prepared, especially in areas that are not frequented by tourism and tourism, so that they are able to receive a crowd of customers due to the closure of larger shops. They also cannot resolve the fact that family members work every weekend, as the law does not allow employees to be employed. [[22.20]] Moreover, family members can't sell at grocery stores without qualifications, so if they don't have the required qualifications for family members, they can't open on Sunday. We therefore believe that this is a new correction of a bad law. The endless amendment should be completed and it should be recognised that this measure has failed. We suggest that the law be annulled before it causes any more trouble. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-27-343	Thank you very much. It is up to Ms Anita Heringes, Ms MSZP, in the list of speakers that have been announced.
u2015-04-27-344	Thank you for the floor. Yeah, well, we're back in the middle of a misguided law, and it's 10:30 again. This is a normal time for debate at Sunday's lockdown, because they are trying so hard to hide what else they want to uncover in this law, that we can always put the debate of this law between 10 and 11 p.m. so that no one can see what's going on in Parliament. You can see that this law is already so indefensible to you that none of the original KDNP representatives are here. Let's just say they're not often in there, but I can see that their own fellow Members can't protect them either, because I don't see more than two members in the Chamber from the pro-government majority. It's outrageous that even though you can't protect him, you sit here and modify him. Secretary of State said that businesses in the World Heritage section are being taken out because the opposition told them to take them out. Well, they didn't get it right, because we said we should repeal the law and not make any distinctions. It's just a stupid thing they've come up with about this. That's literally what people say when they walk down the street. If you talk to people in stores, you don't even know what's in force, what's in force, whether the bakery can sell coke or not, or who can sell what it can, what it can put out on the shelves. They've confused people so much that they've all been sitting back waiting for something to happen at the end of this law, and they'll know what they're free and what they're not free to do. But your arrogance and the enormous size of the two-thirds majority, what you think of yourselves, suppresses your thinking so much that you don't want to hear people's opinions. More humility should be exercised by the pro-government representatives, they should hear the opinion of the people, and then they would withdraw this law. So I'm gonna tell you again, people are asking you to take it back. The opposition also requests that it be withdrawn. Everyone's better off with that. They could finally check something that they made a huge mistake in.
u2015-04-27-345	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, from the Jobbik fraction.
u2015-04-27-346	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. At the words of the Secretary of State, when he started talking about the 8 percent increase, I was a little scared because I thought we were going to get to the point that the law had already led to an 8 percent increase in traffic. But then, no, Mr Secretary of State said the figures that were not at all included in this amendment, why it increased by 8 percent. I have some good news, Mr. Secretary. Imagine the refrigerators aren't broken yet. What will happen when the large wave of cooling degradation predicted by Mihály Varga occurs in the country, and then the retail trade will simply soar? It's not even in there, but sooner or later, we're gonna make it. But let's talk about the law. What is the biggest problem with this law? It's his address. It says that it's an amendment. What kind of amendment is that? 'Cause I don't follow anymore. The sixth or the seventh? [[Anita Beringes: The sixth.]] It's the sixth, but it's about to be the seventh. This is the sixth amendment to this law! It barely came into effect, it's only a month and a half, and it's been modified six times. What would you have to say if you brought in six times a bill to amend it? You should send a message saying that this law is wrong the way it is. It's also bad from a codification point of view. So it's a broken law, they couldn't put this law together properly. The other problem is whether the goals that were set for you at the time are fulfilled by this law. Unfortunately, I must say that there will certainly be many, many amendments. I think that this law will be very much dealt with in this term, up to three to four years of different amendments. The last amendment - you've been mixing it up - I think it's been in front of this House for three weeks, and they said, well, that's the end, that's the last. By the way, this law actually tells people that there is no limit to the cynicality of Fideszes-KDNP. This is an example of this. You should also realize that people would be more popular and sympathetic if they admitted that neither you nor we have the Philosopher's Stone. You have submitted a law, and I do not dispute any good intentions. They said that this law sets out the following objectives: firstly, the protection of workers, so that an employee cannot be forced to work on Sundays, and secondly, that families should be together and not buy, but find other programmes. The goal can be agreed, I absolutely agree with this goal. Protect the workers! The question is whether this law serves this purpose. I'll tell you what, no. And you could've figured that out. They say there's been a lot of negotiations, there's been impact assessments. But, Mr. Secretary, what's a negotiation? Sitting down with people, saying they will, and they won't listen to their opinions? It was not long ago that we were in a five-party meeting where the same thing happened, which was not a five-party one, according to the secretary of state, was only a three-party one, because KDNP was not included. They said that the MSZP was not present, so it was only a three-party negotiation. We said that's possible, because KDNP is here, we can see that it's here, because this law is also associated with KDNP. Let's look at the protection of workers. If their goal is really to prevent workers from being forced to work on Sundays in Hungary, without wanting to do so, without paying for Sunday work, then why does this apply only to the retail sector? Doesn't the interests of families, workers who work in a factory or other sectors on Sunday matter? Their interests should count the same, at least according to the government, if that is their main goal. It's the same for families to be together. Doesn't it matter to families where the employee works on Sundays, not in retail, but elsewhere? I say that at every decision - when, once again, one does not object to the intention - when they form a law that is very bad on the one hand from a codification point of view, and I do not know what impact studies we are talking about, and monitoring that was discussed here, but go out to the people, ask people what their opinion is about this thing, and if they are confronted with it, and they see nine out of ten people saying that they don't like it, then they can say that it's good, mea culpa, it's okay, we tried it, we think it's not a good law. What would be the solution to talking about solutions? The solution would be what opposition representatives have already proposed: as it is, this law should be repealed. Then there will be a question of negotiation, Mr. Secretary. We should sit down with the five parties, we should have a five-party dialogue on this issue, and we should define the two objectives with which - as I said - we agree that there should be a protection for workers, and that families can spend the time they can devote to each other as meaningfully as possible, and that we should establish a law that serves this purpose, and that is a good law. What this would be, it would be difficult for us to figure out now, especially with a large presence like what the ruling party is producing at the moment, but in a five-party arrangement, perhaps we could come up with something that would result in anyone in Hungary - nobody, not just people working in a sector, but nobody - being forced to work on Sundays, or if someone is willing to work on Sundays, a salary that would make this work suitable for them. That's one of them. Secondly, we should think about how we can help them to do so on Sundays, not out of coercion, because we close all the shops, but with the right measures and the right programs, we put families in a position to spend their free time together meaningfully. Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you, just because you're closing the stores and someone's home on Sunday doesn't mean you have the money to go on a trip with your family. And here come the problems. Families should have the financial security to go on a trip so they can go to a zoo, an amusement park, or anywhere with the kids if you want them not to spend their free time in the malls, which I agree with. [[22.30]] But that's a much more complex question than categorically forbidding something. In addition, we forbid that people do not like it, we forbid it by making a law that has to be amended for the sixth time, and a law that, I'm telling you now, I'm sure will be in there in two or three weeks, because the Balaton season is about to start, and you're going to find yourself again with a problem that you're going to make another amendment to. Then they will also submit a modification of the amendment, so that it can go on indefinitely. It's a bad law, and I'm asking you to consider repealing this law. Listen to the people, listen to the opposition, because you don't have the Philosopher's Stone. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-27-347	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-348	Well, hello there, Mr. Secretary. A couple of weeks ago, when I told you how much chaos it caused after 15 March, that after 5:00 people couldn't get into the store, and what a situation it caused, you looked at me pretty upset, and you said yours. I was right then, wasn't I, what would this cause? I'm kind of sad if you went to your colleagues to make sure that four of you could barely figure out that this bill had been modified for the last time. It doesn't matter if it's the fifth or sixth time. What sucks is that it's so granite-solid, you know, like their Fundamental Law, that they won't touch it, because they were so aware of what they were doing. Let me tell you something else, what they did to us on Sunday. Well, we relive our childhood, you know? When we didn't have any products even on Saturday. Now, let's live on Sundays that we can't go to the store, we have to get to the third or fourth store to get fresh bakery goods, or we can get no fresh bakery goods at all, but bread. Because the bakers no longer bake so much bread, and now the level of service that should be the basic service of XXI does not reach the countryside. In the century. And you know, Mr. Secretary, when you join the others, go with the people, and don't listen to us here at 11:00 and 10:30. And in a month's time, we'll be back, and I'll tell you the same thing: what happened, Mr. Secretary, are we awake? Do we have an epiphany? And did we realize that we screwed up again in that law? It's just, you know, my guess is that we're gonna be back at least six times, because you guys are really not gonna get to your brains, what you should be doing, how you're gonna take this thing back the way it is. Because that's what the Hungarian population wants. And let's see it. [[Nándor Gúr: That's right. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-27-349	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you if someone else wants to make use of the opportunity to speak on the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I also confirm the truth of opinions, and consequently I do not. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you have 2 minutes and 20 seconds... [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-04-27-350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. My time is rather short, so I just want to say the most important things. One is that retail sales in Hungary are constantly expanding for 20 consecutive months, and this is a good thing that we would all like to be happy about, because this indicates that people in Hungary have more money, and there is a growing demand for money. There was quite a problem when during the socialist government, in 2008, retail sales collapsed, the number of shops decreased, and a lot of people lost their jobs in the retail sector. I would like to say that the conciliation process that the Ministry of National Economy conducted prior to the adoption of the law with professional organisations was not challenged by any of the stakeholders. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including: Asked. István Szávay: They thanked me.]] In fact, they expressly acknowledged the fact that the Ministry of National Economy had conducted such consultations with them. As far as the sudden strange coalition of Jobbik and MSZP is concerned with the fact that the Retail Opening Act has been amended six times, in fact, this is the second. So it is not the sixth amendment, but the second amendment, and it is indeed the case that we have listened to a lot of comments, including, by the way, the comments made by the ladies and women of Parliament in previous debates. [[Anita Beringes: They didn't understand what we said. Nándor Gúr: That's not true. I'm the one who's upset.]] Thus, according to the comments of the MSZP, the rules of the World Heritage Sites were abolished, and indeed Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said earlier that it would be important for smaller shops to be able to open earlier in order to enable people going to work to buy. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So, indeed, your comments have also been taken into account. I'd like to try to consider it, even when they're trying to distract me with their intervention. But I do not think that such intervention is suitable, even within the framework of parliamentarism, for any political position to be effectively represented. So I call on the opposition representatives to support, in spite of their anger, the proposals that include, among other things, their earlier proposals, along with those of the pro-government representatives. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your attention.
u2015-04-27-351	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek: I went to Cserdi. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-352	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, who have patience, I'd like to talk about a foreign subject enough to fulfill a promise I made. Part of the story is that the other day, while reading the Internet news, I saw that József Horváth, a 27-year-old young man who was born at the Gypsy colony in Karcag, and grew up in virtually terrible conditions, had to start in very bad school conditions, because of the research of the mouth cancer he received from the Golden Hang Prize. A sophomore PhD student at the University of Debrecen has received this Golden Hinge Prize because of his outstanding scientific work. Reports of what it was like as a gypsy child to experience the desire to learn, because at first he wanted to be a lawyer, a political scientist or a journalist, to get to the point of being nominated and thought about at the University of Debrecen's science degree school. This article reminded me that I was in Cserdi a few weeks ago, perhaps a month ago. In Cserdi, Mayor László Bogdán ordered me to order when I used the term Roma in general. He told me not to insult him, to talk about Gypsy and Gypsy in Hungary, and to talk about running a Gypsy settlement as a Gypsy leader. He would like me to say that, within the framework of the Hungarian Parliament, he simply feels that he does not feel in Parliament in the legislative work that someone is dealing with the largest minority of Hungary at any level. The fact that different census figures are now talking about 250,000, 349 thousand or 500 thousand Gypsy minorities in Hungary is of little importance, but it is simply a fact that out of 3,200 settlements in 2000 there are Gypsy minorities. At present, in the Hungarian Parliament, at least in a year, since I have been here, I think there may have been only one occasion when Gypsyism was mentioned, and this was in connection with the abuses of the minority self-government and its interesting car rental accounts. Nothing else, in the government proposals, I do not see any policy trend to reassure this mayor named László Bogdán that the Hungarian Parliament would deal with the Roma minority that he represents and is very important to him. I was wondering what the reason was. I grew up on Tourke, near one of the Gypsy towns, a large part of my classmates were of that kind. It was always my nightmare, especially in the period 2002-2010, that if people who grew up in the inner city and met with Gypsy in sociological studies, or if those who may have been beaten and taken away from their buns as children, they could go in two extreme directions; and how far it does not bring us closer to dealing with the situation that the largest minority in Hungary still does not have a specific government intention to handle the situation so that friction, coexistence and opportunities between the majority society and the minority society can be resolved. I am talking about this because, in the legislative work, I see that there are so many things that are important to the government, so much, but it brings in so many drafts of legislation and then amends it and then amends it again how it can be that we do not meet government decisions in support policy or in legislation with the objective of what Fidesz has to say about this. [[22.40]] What is the answer of the current government to the question that gypsyism must start from a highly disadvantaged position in most cases, and if a young man goes to a study to obtain a degree of science, then it will be such a news that he is obviously entitled to receive that award? What does it take to achieve these more equal opportunities for citizens in some form, as provided by our constitution or our Fundamental Law? I'm terrified that if someone brings up the gypsy here, it's either the fascist or the liberal adjective right away. If you want to deal with this problem at any level and you want to say that there is a task for Hungarian society, there has been a failure of Hungarian governance for decades that has to be dealt with, then it is a big, big problem that we are talking about it at any level or hardly at all. We hear about the situation in Somogy County, we hear about the minority self-government in general, but we don't hear anything about what the government wants. We don't hear anything from the government about what he's doing. We know nothing about what will happen to the municipalities where there are attempts of this kind and what the future is. I wanted to address the government on this matter. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-04-27-353	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, applied for a speech with the title "Two." Here you go.
u2015-04-27-354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Today's news: The Ministry of Human Resources' Secretary of State for Family and Youth and the Foundation of the UNICEF Hungarian Commission announced a Child-friendly City Award. The joint programme is expected to include local authorities that involve young people in local decisions affecting them, said State Secretary Katalin Novák and Emese Danks, Managing Director of the Foundation on Monday, a III. At a press conference in a district playground. Katalin Novak said that it is considered important at government and municipal level that everyday decisions focus on children's aspects and rights, while also talking about obligations. In recent times, I can rightly say, the communication changes from the Fidesz side are becoming more and more frequent, with a great deal of communication with children. Recalling earlier UNICEF information programmes, he said that children must first learn about their rights so that they can make use of them. If you look at the website of UNICEF in Hungary, there are very interesting thoughts provided for this website, and precisely for this application. I'd like to read this, and they'll understand why I'm reading this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The programme will apply the objectives of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child at the level where and when the greatest direct impact on children's lives can be achieved: locally. UNICEF Child-friendly City works for full compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Accordingly, it guarantees that every young citizen under the age of 18 can have an impact on decisions affecting his settlement; can express his opinion on what settlement he would like to live in; have access to basic services, health, child welfare services and education; drink clean water and live free of any form of exploitation and violence under hygienic conditions; be safe on the streets of his settlement; be able to live in a non-polluting natural and built environment; participate in cultural and community events and have equal access to his settlement, regardless of all services, origin, religion, property, gender and disability. I very much hope that the Secretary of State and the EMMI will read these thoughts a lot. If we are talking about the need for children to get to know their obligations first because they can only enforce their rights and their rights, I think that we can talk today in Hungary about the rights and rights of children to education; what opportunities our children will have to get into adult education; what services and what opportunities they have today. We have argued here several times within the walls of Parliament about the situation of children today. If we are talking about violence against children, I must point out that last week we brought to the Judicial Committee the initiative to ratify the Istanbul Convention. In the Committee on Justice, Members of the Fidesz Group have done something that I do not think has happened at a committee meeting: it has been removed from the agenda on the spot, and they have not even been willing to negotiate at the committee meeting without being on the agenda in advance. Today, for every single rape, child violence - whether physical, sexual, mental, or whatever violence is discovered - there are 25 unexplored cases. I think it is right to say that once again the government's call for this proposal is hypocritical, because we are once again checking out and selling something well in communication, and in everyday life we are not talking about such important problems that are written down exactly in this agreement. Thank you. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-04-27-355	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, applied for a post-meeting address:. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-356	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I am terribly sorry that in this early hour of Parliament's agenda, there are no Fidesz Members here, neither the KDNPs, nor any representative of the Government, nor any Secretary of State, nor any minister. However, it is very important to talk about the future of Hungary from the perspective of foreign policy, because we know that domestic opportunities are an extremely important area for investment, jobs and future diplomatic relations, which can also bring such domestic results. The government should see that nothing can be done on its own. By the way, you should be able to see this exactly on the two-thirds you've lost. Now in the two-thirds laws - as we have seen in connection with, for example, earth law - things are not going as smoothly as they have so far been able to decide almost anything. The same is true of foreign policy: it cannot go alone, without allies Hungary cannot go either. From the point of view of allies, the government stresses very much the importance of cooperation in Visegrád. Of course, so do we, and we consider it a very important cooperation, but unfortunately, this has now become an island of separation, not of cooperation, because of the wrong policy of the government. We have seen that Viktor Orbán has now struck the dust with the Polish government, and we can see that the Czech Republic, Slovakia, is closer to Austria than with Hungary. But what are the reasons for this? Among other things, these countries may have similar problems as our other allies: we can see a very shady Eastern opening policy, which has no tangible benefits for Hungary, the kind of profit Fidesz is trying to sell as an economic interest, the country's economic interest is not. Whether there may be a fidesz economic interest in this is a very good question, but for some reason the government is very motivated on this subject. We can see corruption issues, which have been highlighted by many of our allies and by the European Union. Hungary is now among the most corrupt countries in numerous surveys, and I would like to highlight the Corruption Research Centre, who, in addition to the transactions that have been carried out, are obviously looking at a risk index, which means the potential for corruption in both legislation and the institutional system. There are huge opportunities for corruption in Hungary in relation to the last few years' amendments. [[22.50]] And what do we see in it? Viktor Orbán has a stadium, has a fish pond, has a small railway, has an airport. So we'd almost think it's starting to look like a nursery in this neighborhood where these investments are going to take place. And in the meantime, public workers have 47,000 forints, the 47,000 forints, by which Mr. Secretary of State said that people live better, they can buy more. According to news reports, Viktor Orbán could be struck by his wife in his first rage at times. I would like to quote one thing in particular: for example, if you are not interested in something, you simply let it pass your ear. I don't want to interfere in his private life, and I don't want to talk about it, but letting go of things is very important from the point of view of Hungary, because the problem is that he does it not only in his private life, he does it to Hungarian people, he does it to the opposition all the time, he does it to the students several times, although he blows back. He does it to anyone who lets him, lets things pass his ear. I think that's a very good sentence, and he's getting paid to hear what people say. I would like to quote another sentence from László Kövér:. Despite good governance, there is no really good government and party communication. We can see that Fidesz has everything to do with party communication. If we look at next year's budget, the 15 percent projected personal income tax will again benefit those who make good money, not the little people at all. The government is uncredited, and we're sending it forward. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] if a government transformation is planned, as long as the Prime Minister of Hungary is called Viktor Orbán, there can be no credible government in Hungary. Thank you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2015-04-27-357	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, asked for a speech: "Dear Mr Benetton! It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-358	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, Because no Fidesz-KDNP Members are in this Chamber. Please listen to the letter I wrote last night. Dear Mr. Carlo Benetton. But I'd better mention the Benetton family, because in your case, we're talking about a family business. Not just any family business, for according to prestigious Forbes magazine, the four brothers were among the richest men in the world. Legend has it that Luciano Benetton, who works in a clothing store, was forced to sell his bicycle to buy a used knitting machine, which became the foundation of the entire company empire, which was founded in Treviso in 1965, but now it is more than EUR 10 billion fatter. By now, there are 6500 Benetton stores all over the world, but other than the fashion industry, they've gone into something else, and it's enough to refer only to the Form 1 that has been abandoned since then, where Schumacher has won two gold medals for the team. With their conflicting posters, they became part of the advertising history. During their fashion campaigns to become citizens, the focus was on multicultural themes. The brand name became the slogan United Colors of Benetton. But I would also like to mention the Unhate campaign, on which the pope kisses a Muslim religious leader on a scandal poster. But what is the meaning of my letter? These days, I found the article by browsing the economic column of the newspapers, which discussed the further plans of their empire, namely that they would also take on Africa in their investments on the world map of Benetton, painted with loud colors. I wonder whether there is no plan for the regions of Somogy, some of which have fallen to the level of Internal Africa in the Lower Balkans, to invest in job creation. Because, according to my duties, last week I was walking through the poverty-stricken villages of the South Somogy constituencies, drowning from unemployment, which were all underprivileged. The region where the Drawa company, which has at least 6,000 hectares of land, is reported to be Drawa, which you may have something to do with, and this is the region where all jobs would certainly be worth gold. But I'm sorry, I was rude. I didn't introduce myself. I'm Balázs Ander. You know, three years ago, in the context of a defense demonstration, I was the one who gave you, with my best friends, your company. Although, of course, I have my doubts as to whether your people here have sent you our unusual surprise. But what was the gift of not even Gucci or Louis Vuitton in a riddle or a nocical box that we put in the decorative gate of his squeaky castle? It is nothing more than a big bag of dung, that, if not here, perhaps we will be able to boost agriculture in the lowlands of Po, and our great national poet Petőfi What is not mentioned in a veritable quote of his poem German, which, in view of the dignity of this House, I would not quote here and now. And what was the reason for all this? You know, it's just that a century ago, you were connected to Drawa Bt. Rinyaszent Király strangled by his lordship was able to support 1,200 more people, until now the majority of the population that has fallen to 400 people suffer from poverty, as work in lands under foreign rule, where they or their parents once worked, do not get much. You know, the way we like it is that we prefer small family farms that employ four times as many people in particular than foreign or domestic latifundiums that spread socio-economic mortality to the countryside. And, you know, we consider this extreme liberal impertinence to be enormous, evil nonsense, which did not translate into the image of the natives, to declare that the Hungarian village is a medieval degenerate. You know, at the same time, we consider it a bit of a Pharisee thing that their company, in their multicultural fashion campaigns - I suppose, by chance, not for profit - favors people with colorful skin on its posters, but at the same time it doesn't concern the population of the villages around their estates, but imagine that there are also brown-skinned people living there, and a significant part of these people of beás gypsy origins, like the Hungarians of the village, were still producing vegetables for the Nagyatád cannery factory, which, of course, in the course of the regime change, went bankrupt, and these vegetables were produced on those 20-some golden crowned fields where Drawa Bt is now. Summer trees with little or no working hands are spreading. You know, we think that property - in this case, the vast land fortune, the only resource in rural Hungary - should involve social responsibility. If they don't provide work in the fields, don't you think that the population of these villages, without work, deserves not only to employ thousands of clothing factories in Nis, Serbia, but also to surprise them in South Somogy with something similar? I would like to say that I look forward to your meaningful reply. We'd like to see jobs in the South Somogy region. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-359	Dear Parliament, Representative of Jobbik Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Hungarian Ice Hockey Team" again in the elite. Here you go.
u2015-04-27-360	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At last week's and Saturday's World hockey Championship, the Hungarian national team joined the world's elite again with their feat of bravure and success. We congratulate them with all our heart. I think the team fighting up deserves a few thoughts. There were gates: Bence Bálizs, Miklós Rajna, Zoltán Hetényi. Quarters: Balázs Vág, Metcalfe Tyler, Tamás Pozsgai, Dániel Kiss, Attila Orbán, Bence Szirányi, Márton Vas. Csatars: Frank Banham, András Benk, Csanád Erdély, Csaba Kovács, Dániel Króger, Bálint Magosi, Andrew Sarauer, Péter Vincze, Krisztin Nagy, János Hári, Balázs Sebők, István Sofron, János Vas. The federal captain had already been introduced to Rich Chernomaz by the whole country, and I still have to mention the second coaches, Gergely Majoross and Diego Scandella. After Kazakhstan, our team won second place. In person, I participated in some matches, on Wednesdays in Hungary-Italy, on Thursdays in Hungary-Ukraine and on Saturday in Hungary-Poland. All three matches were very exciting, by the way, and the Hungarian team, as I mentioned earlier, fought themselves up with an excellent game. By the way, after 2008, another historical event occurred in the history of Hungarian hockey, as it was the second time that our elite team was placed in the elite. The World Championship Finals will be held in May in St. Petersburg and Moscow. It will be much more difficult here, and we will have to stand up against teams like Canada, Russia, Sweden, Finland, the United States or the Czech Republic. The Hungarian hockey has an upward career not only in the quality of the game, but also in thanks to God, sport itself has received more attention from both decision makers, and this must be acknowledged, as well as from the fans and Hungarian society. The 2008 Sapporo triumph and the 2009 Swiss elite tournament have had a great impact on this sport, and it is enough to think that it has been included among the visual sports with football, handball, basketball and waterball, and that there is an incomparably higher amount of money flowing into the sport, mainly through corporate income tax. [[23.00]] Thanks to God, the number of certified players and indoors has increased significantly, but we are still very behind the top countries, so it will be a very, very difficult task for the team. All I need to do is point out the Czech Republic. It really wouldn't be fair right now, I think, if I were to model with Canada or the United States. But while there are 19 standard-sized tracks in Hungary and 4400 certified hockey players, there are 110,000 certified hockey players in the Czech Republic, 158 of them. So, for example, the Czech Republic is starting from a much better situation in this respect. But let's get back to the World Cup. For the whole four days there, it was typical that we could enjoy the hospitality of the Czechs and the hospitality of the Poles. During our journey, Brno was on our way, and we were closer from home, so I have to thank them, too, because we could make very valuable friendships and have conversations in the Czech Republic. But the real experience was the several days of Polish stay. I have to say that in Poland, Krakow and its surroundings contain wonderful natural values, attractions and cultural specialties, which, by the way, are worth tasting as a tourist. As people gathered - and here I would like to go to the game on Saturday - it was a great experience because we were practically playing at home in Krakow. There was a full house in the 15 grand stadium. I would not be able to guess how many of these were Polish and Hungarian fans, as perhaps thanks to the good old friendship too, the sectors were not sharply separated, and the fans were mixed, where the Hungarian and the Polish team were also held in turn. That was very touching. In fact, even on the giant projector there were two good friends' subtitles in Polish and Hungarian. But I discovered flags such as Keszthely, Hévíz, Eger, Újpest, Csallóköz Air, Székelyudvarhely, Esztergom, Szombathely, Komárom, Arad, Diósgyőr, and could be classified for a long time, so the whole country was really present and cheered together for Hungarian success. I also have to highlight the fans in this respect, because throughout the world, they have helped the team properly, creating a domestic atmosphere, which, I think, can be of great help in sharpened situations. So I would like to thank the whole team once again for making us proud again of the Hungarian hockey team and for achieving this historic success. I wish them very, very good luck in the future. I would also like to encourage Hungarian decision-makers to provide more help to the national team. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-361	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting address with the title "The Price of Hungarian Blood." Here you go.
u2015-04-27-362	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In many life situations, we may need the help of others for some reason. Somehow, such as when we need a transfusion for some reason, we still need other people's help, and I could even say that we need others to make sacrifices, and that even an operation may depend on the availability of adequate blood. It's a vulnerable condition that could put any of us in. In such situations, human solidarity is becoming very important to take on the sacrifice. However, waiting is also good for the person who gives this blood. In addition to knowing that the blood donor did good to someone else, by examining the blood in question, you will receive important feedback about your health, so you can be sure that you have a more serious infection or, for example, whether your blood pressure is within normal values. In addition, blood donation is a process that promotes blood production. It is almost natural that accurate documentation on the use of blood is not possible when it comes to feedback. Thus, 60-70 percent of domestic hospitals give feedback at all to the National Blood Supply Service. I don't think it should stay that way. Why is it impossible to monitor and take steps to comply with reporting, feedback and similar data transmission obligations in this and similar cases if delays are detected? It would also help to save blood, help to prepare better analyses, which would contribute to achieving a more cost-effective operation. A lot of these little things do matter at systemic level. It is also worth looking at the costs of blood products. What is the cost for hospitals and what is the cost for the blood supply service? I wonder how consistent they are - let us not talk about the conditions under which certain firms receive blood products at reduced prices, even though there are question marks. I must mention that it is important and good that there are already smaller gestures that encourage the population to become a blood donor and ideally a regular blood donor. These are given a few little things at the time of blood donation, and when the blood is used, they are notified by text message, or that they will receive special recognition and awards for recurring, multiple donations of blood. These are all important and help to make everyone aware of the importance and value of this action. However, it should be noted that all regular and multiple blood donors have been valued, since this base is getting closer to the age limit when we can no longer rely on their help. In the meantime, despite all attempts, it is not too successful to include younger age groups on a similar level among regular blood donors and to keep them there. Although there is no doubt that regular presence at universities and festivals will help, it may take more to make a commitment, to create an intention. It would be comforting to have incentives that would further motivate blood donors; to find a way to reward them that would better compensate for the time spent on them, which would be burdened with multiple blood donors, and would reward the good intentions, the helpfulness with which they bear. They not only regularly go to help others, but they also preserve their health to be ready for action whenever possible. Moreover, let us not leave without saying, for it is not self-evident, for many future future blood donors who think they are healthy reveal that they are not completely healthy and do not meet the requirements. So maintaining our health is also important to donate blood. This should also be appreciated, for those who do so have helped hundreds of, even thousands of patients throughout their lives over the years, or even contribute indirectly to saving a similarly high number of lives. The importance of giving blood is indisputable, and therefore the fact that we do not allow the number of occasional and regular donors to decrease. However, there are many other steps that could improve the efficiency of the use, but that is why it needs to be done. How much is it worth to the government that there is a constant and sufficient amount of blood available in Hungary? Enough to take action in this direction? I would expect the government's response with respect. Unfortunately, they're not here at the moment. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-27-363	I, on the other hand, thank the Member for his speech. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you for your work. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 11:07 p.m.]]
