u2015-03-18-0	I warmly welcome my fellow Members and all those who are monitoring our work today. With special respect, I welcome the leaders and colleagues of the law enforcement agencies in the box. I wish that the Parliament prepares today for legislation that is appropriate to their liking as well as to enable them to carry out their duties. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notary Erzsébet Schmuck and notary László Földi will be of assistance to me. A general discussion of the bill on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies will follow until closure. The submission was made in T/3783. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-18-1	Mr President, Dear House, One of the most important values in a society is order. The order provides peace of everyday life, social peace, the condition of social development, individual prosperity. The establishment and operation of law enforcement organisations providing objectives is an essential element in the establishment of the order. But the best-built organization can't function without a well-trained, dedicated staff. The organisation will only be able to complete its task if its staff can meet the new challenges, the constantly increasing level of requirements, the effective performance of tasks based on knowledge and experience, if they have well-trained staff with decades of practical experience, if the course is attractive to young people, who provide continuous reinforcements, if it provides life support for their staff and families, and provides a financial framework for everyday livelihood. T/3783 submitted by the Government of Hungary. The draft law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies is about the establishment and provision of these conditions guaranteed by law. The bill sets out the objective of a predictable and motivating system of advancement and a new salary system, an increase in the financial value of professional staff. It also launches the creation of a basic idea of public administration reform, employment coherence between public service professions and interoperability. The objectives to be achieved include increasing the attractiveness of the public service and the involvement of the high-quality people in the country's administrative and police management. The proposal was drawn up in several stages. We paid great attention to the needs and suggestions of the professional staff and the relevant professional, interest-representation and advocacy organisations, including the Hungarian Police Faculty. The entire staff has been involved in the development of the funds. Each of them could contribute to the preparation of the proposal by completing a questionnaire or by drawing up their own ideas. More than 16,000 people made proposals, completed questionnaires and gave their opinions on the preparation of the bill. During the shaping of the proposal, we have consulted 14 bodies of interest and the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty several times, and their proposals have been taken into account. Dear Parliament, These proposals, these opinions, have all been incorporated into the draft law. The scope of the bill covers the professional staff of the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the professional disaster protection body, the prison organisation, the civil security services, the Parliamentary Guard, the National Defence Service and the National Tax and Customs Office. The aim of the new system of advancement is to provide a dual way forward: to allow for a commanding position, an ever higher position, and to provide an opportunity for professional progress and recognition within a given field of expertise. One is a free way to complete commanding skills, the other is to encourage excellence in the field, inspire and reward the acquisition of in-depth skills. At the same time as the implementation of the system of advancement, the role of rank changes. The new regulation retains the name and hierarchy of each rank. In the future, the rank will be tied to the assigned post. At the same time as taking up the post, he shall be entitled to hold the post attached to that post. If you are in a lower position, you will not be entitled to hold the associated rank. Thus, the hierarchy of rank and rank will be clear, and the relations of superiors, leaders and commanders will be made clear. From now on, the automatic advance system will cease. Only because of the progress of time, no one can move forward in rank or rank. All progress steps are conditional, exam, qualification and benchmarking. In the future, only those who have a higher education degree can be appointed as officers and have a state-approved language examination of one of the languages indicated in the bill. The condition of achieving a higher rank will also be a successful rank exam. The management mandates will be for a limited period. Local and regional leaders can be appointed for five years. The appointment may be extended once by five years at the same place of service, but only if the managed area has provided at least good performance and has been properly assessed. Dear Parliament, When we asked colleagues for their views on the development of the life plan, almost everyone asked for or suggested the development of a new system of salaries. The government took this request and proposal into account in particular when defining the legislative concept. However, the economic strength of the country had to be taken into account when designing our ideas. In view of these two expectations, we have decided to propose an average wage increase of 50 per cent, which should be carried out at a different rate per year by 1 January 2019. In compliance with these guidelines, a new system of salaries was prepared for the bill. Our aim is to reflect the level of service, the value of service experience, the appreciation of professional membership and the recognition of performance over a given period of time. [[9.10]] This performance recognition will be determined on the basis of the evaluation of the work, not incorporated into the lease, it will be granted twice a year. The new system eliminates the previous bonus system, so we keep five of the previous 30 other allowances. It is important to point out that a significant part of the former allowances are incorporated into the basic salary of the area, not lost, those who have received this allowance, who will receive the corresponding financial assets in the future, either in their post salary or otherwise, with their salary. The new salary system will be introduced at several paces: an average rate of 30 per cent on 1 July 2015 and a subsequent increase of 5 to 5 per cent per year from 1 January 2016. Thus, as I indicated earlier, the average wage increase of 50 per cent will be met as of 1 January 2019. I would like to note that the professional staff received such a significant wage increase in 2000, during the first Orbán government. In order to ensure that a significant acceptable salary increase is granted to all professional members of the new salary system, the proposal sets the rate of the salary increase by stock group by 1 July 2015 and should therefore reach 30 per cent in all cases for staff performing the basic task. For non-basic tasks, this is 25 percent, it will be mandatory, and for the commanding staff we have set 15 percent. I would like to stress that this was because, earlier on, the change in tax laws in the wages of the command staff meant a certain increase in real wages. So we're gonna have the commanders on the second and third steps here in order to get a bigger wage increase over 15 percent, but the commanding officer needs to take care of it. I would like to stress that the rates indicated represent the guaranteed rate, so after 1 July there can be more one person's wages, but no one will receive less increases. Another change is the termination of the salary supplement. These options should be taken over by the new salary base and benchmarking. However, it will continue to be possible to win the Jubilee Prize and issue the Jubilee Prize. Dear House, Several new legal institutions will be introduced in the bill. A court of honor will be set up. This will be a new appeal forum, which can be applied in three cases when the termination of service has been decided in the command procedure. Here, as a disciplinary punishment, due to inadequacy, such a decision could have been made due to inadequacy. The court of honor will review that. The decision of the court of honor later obliges the commanders, the employer's right holders. Dear Parliament, We create the reserve stock from former members of the professional staff. With this stock, we want to ensure the possibility of a temporary return to temporary vacant posts. It takes a lot of trouble off the shoulders of the commanders and also provides an opportunity for colleagues who would like to return periodically to police and professional personnel. We've been thinking about young people. We see them as a suitable replacement, so in connection with the officer training of the National University of Public Service, where they did not receive a proper scholarship, scholarship, free uniform supply and other advantages, we want to make professional careers and officer's profession even more attractive. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I ask you to support the bill, support it with your proposals, support it with your votes. When discussing the bill and voting, remember that the law is about those who, at the risk of their lives, take care of the order of the country, its inhabitants, you and your family. Mr President, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place, and in the first round - in accordance with house rules - the speeches will be held by the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Mátyás Firtl. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-3	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes the bill tabled by the Minister of the Interior. The T/3783 ahead. During the preparation of bill No.1, as has been said, there has been a detailed professional consultation with professional organisations, trade unions and I can also say that with the factions. With the establishment of a new regulation on the status of professional law enforcement staff, the multi-stage wage development of those employed in these areas will also start from 1 July 2015: Hungary's central budget for 2015 includes additional staff allowances linked to the introduction of armed and police careers systems, as well as related employer contributions and social contributions taxes. The career model involves around 64,000 members of professional staff, for whom a system-wide 50 percent wage development is carried out over a five-year period, as has been said. With effect from 1 July 2015, an average salary increase of 30 per cent will be made and thereafter the staff members will receive an increase of between 5 and 5 per cent from 2016 until 1 January 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill has long been expected, and regardless of party standing, we are trying to achieve the respect and career system of law enforcement workers, and indeed the appreciation for them is the case. The role of law enforcement bodies is a priority for professional staff, whose service relationship requires independent regulation in relation to the employment relationship of other public service workers due to the increased requirements imposed on them. In its organisational system, the establishment of a modern and transparent, powerful and efficient state organisation in its instrumental system is part of the 21st century. One of the biggest challenges of the century. One of the key tasks of public law in the years following the 2010 parliamentary elections was to create a strong state of public authority in its everyday activities, a state that, breaking off from previous practice, serves the interests of the public good, the community instead of the individual. However, the service of national Community interests can only be based on a legal order based on solid public law. This solid legal order is based on the Fundamental Law, which, inter alia, settled the constitutional situation of law enforcement bodies, as well as the fundamental rules governing their operation. Within the framework of the Fundamental Law, the organisational and institutional side of the State of Service has already been established and it is the responsibility of this government cycle to establish a staff, public service system and to ensure the conditions for the operation of the State Organisation in an efficient manner. [[9.20]] When the Minister agreed with our faction, he said in black and white that every member of the law enforcement organization would take the oath on the Hungarian Fundamental Law, and therefore must act independently of party positions. That is why I can say that according to the current law, as we have just said, it is the responsibility and duty of all of us, regardless of party standing, to create the possibility for law enforcement agencies. Shh. Following its entry into force on 1 September 1996, it changed or modified 86 times, which, at the same time, permanently disrupted and weakened the internal coherence of the structure, particularly as a result of the decisions taken over the past four years, since that is when we took the decisions to abolish the service pension and introduce new legal institutions. This has resulted in the need to create a new law, which is a major challenge. We see that this draft law relies on its previous concept, the legal institutions of professional service, but at the same time seeks to meet expectations with a new approach, structural, social and substantive innovations, to establish consistency with regard to elements re-regulated in civil employment laws, to limit fundamental rights, as I have said, to adapt to the Fundamental Law, to regulate the establishment, modification and termination of a legal relationship, and to regulate the system of advancement in a more transparent manner, and to abolish the institutions of law that no longer apply. There was talk of a new salary system. Once again, the Christian Democratic People's Party naturally supports and welcomes the fact that the new salary system is being set up, since, as has already been said, the current complicated salary system is changing and recognises the value of the jobs. Accordingly, the salary consists of three main elements: the salary of the post, the additional duty and the professional allowance. In addition to these salary elements, the number of allowances and the previous nearly thirty allowances, as has already been said, will be reduced in line with the specific requirements of the service. The foreign language allowance remains, and the law deals with the hazard areas where the bonus system should be maintained. Such is the protection of high-frequency and ionising radiation, poisoning, and biologically pathogenic workplaces. There is, of course, a special bonus to ensure the protection of workers here. And there's a special allowance for those serving in the preferred settlements. But, of course, the night allowance and the stand-by allowance must be brought. The recognition of performance can be paid twice a year on the basis of a one-year benchmark. The law introduces the concept of law enforcement salary, which is laid down in the Central Budget Act, so that it cannot be lower than the law enforcement salary base of the previous year. A further change in the salary system, the termination of the salary supplement, will not be recognised as a separate function in the higher level of the organizational hierarchy, after the different expectations and job requirements arising from the organizational hierarchy are recognised in the post salary. The new salary scheme provides for a higher salary for members of the professional staff. In accordance with the Government's decision, a new classification is required, according to which additional individual corrective measures will provide all professional staff with an average salary increase of 30 per cent. I would not mention the details, because they have already been formulated by the Minister, but we consider it important that the rate of the salary increase is determined on the basis of the regular salary of the member of the professional staff. The proposal sets out what should be taken into account from the point of view of the regular salary base. It is also very important to have a new system of advancement, which Minister referred to in his expozee. At the same time, the automatic forwarding will cease. The role of rank has also been discussed. We consider the connection of the rank to the hierarchy to be very important in the coming time. It has been said and we also consider it important that the law deals with the institution of the court of honor. On the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we consider the training of reserve personnel to be important. It has already been formulated here and we particularly welcome the fact that those who participate in the initial education of the National University of Public Service, as students, will be assigned to the staff of the law enforcement organisation's candidates, which we consider to be very important, who will not be entitled to self-employed measures in the course of their service, but who will be entitled to scholarships, dormitories, free food, clothing, support, certain expenses and social benefits. We consider it very important that the law enforcement field, the public service track, can enjoy a kind of advantage, and that it is a kind of opportunity for our young people to apply to this field as many as possible. Then we also consider it important that what the law deals with is that, in accordance with the Basic Law, the principle of proportionality and necessity is reflected in the implementation of service performances, which may include restrictions on the exercise of ownership, as well as clarification of the expression of views on the Internet in respect of technical control. We consider this to be important because anyone applying to the law enforcement field should know that they serve under command, and here they must be carried out and fulfilled, and that they must be dealt with in the future. As has already been said, it deals specifically with the separation of professional public bodies, trade unions and advocacy organisations. We also consider this important on the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party and welcome its special attention. Finally, it is also important to note that the law deals with other rights related to professional careers, Jubilee Rewards, Health Holidays, Waiver Periods, Pre-retirement Service, Easier Service, Reserves, Senior Population, and Preferences and Mutuality in the transition between the three professions. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As I said at the beginning of my speech, I can now say that on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we welcome the bill tabled and ask the rest of Parliament's groups, as well as my fellow Members, to support it and offer it with a good heart to all Members for adoption and discussion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-03-18-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The rules governing the service of professional members of law enforcement bodies are currently adopted by the HSzt in 1996. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • For the last nearly 20 years, Hst. has undergone countless amendments, with the result that the internal coherence of the regulation has completely disappeared, contains a multitude of controversial and now obsolete provisions. A new law of service has been on the agenda for a long time, which was clearly necessary on this basis. It is also known that the Ministry of Interior already started negotiations with trade unions on this issue in 2010-11. In the autumn of 2014, a new service law was rescheduled and the first draft was published on the government's website in January 2015. As a result of the negotiations with the trade unions, this published draft has already been refined on several points, which is certainly commendable to us. [[9.30]] A number of previous concerns have been addressed in the submitted proposal by the Ministry of the Interior. So that's pretty much what happened. Allow me, first of all, to highlight the positive points in this draft law at the beginning of my speech. After all, we all know what an important task law enforcement agencies are doing, and we know that they choose this profession as a career calling for the life of professional personnel and the entire population of law enforcement agencies, and this is, of course, for the safety of Hungary, for the safety of Hungarian people and for the safety of their families. For this reason, it was extremely important that they were properly respected for this work and for the risks they were taking. Basically, the goal is to come up with a bill with a consensus. The MSZP would also like to see a final vote on a bill that could otherwise be supported by everyone. There is a need for a proposal that provides adequate respect, a proper way of life, an opportunity to move forward, and I would stress that it will in any case provide legal certainty and security of life for the stock. After all, they are able to carry out their day-to-day tasks, and they can concentrate on this, so that the operation of law enforcement bodies is effective if the stock has legal certainty and security of life, which provides an appropriate framework for their work. This law will determine opportunities and operation for decades, so our goal is to put on the table a proposal that is eligible. First of all, I would like to say the positives, and then I would like to say that we are going to submit a number of amendments to the bill. From this, I would like to highlight the strong elements that we are certainly looking forward to including in the proposal, so that it can be supported by us as well. In principle, we welcome the fact that this proposal provides a suitable framework for the long-promised development of salaries and that it is already available in this year's budget, although it is available at the Prime Minister's Office, to raise salaries. We very much hope that it will happen, because it was definitely time. This is absolutely welcome. We also welcome what I pointed out at the beginning that the Ministry had several rounds of consultations with interest protection organisations and that there was a multi-party consultation on this issue. I am saying that I wish there were similar intentions on the part of the government in other areas. It is also a fact that, compared to the draft we saw on the government's website in January, the bill has improved considerably. The new system of progress and salaries outlined here is, in any case, a step forward compared to the legislation currently in force. Please allow a few more specifics in the category of positives. The proposal to regulate existing incoherence and to provide an appropriate framework for its operation is absolutely welcome. It is also that we can see guarantees in the proposal so that the development of salaries cannot be missed. I would also like to highlight the reserve register that we have heard about in the national speech. This is certainly forward-looking, and it is important that the possibility of reimbursing be achieved. So these were basically the positives. Now let me tell you what the proposals are, which are the elements currently in place in the law, which we do not agree with and which we are certainly looking forward to correcting. One is that the law does not provide for the possibility of a worthy closure of a professional life course. We know that the government abolished the service pension system between 2010 and 2014, and this puts a lot of professional, ex-professional, law enforcement staff and defence workers in extremely difficult situations. He deprived them of their pension status, turned their benefits into benefits, and even charged them with a 16% deduction, which is a deduction corresponding to the level of personal income tax at all times. To this day, we still disagree, and still condemn this step. The fact is that the old service pension system contained unfair elements, but it is also a fact that people who otherwise did not go to a service pension for good reasons, but, in most cases, for health reasons or because of staff transfers or redundancies, cannot be put in such a humiliating situation. That's what we're saying to this day, and that was a very reprehensible move. The current proposal contains the structure of an insurance system. This insurance system is not yet known for almost any specific reasons, but some form must be found out in any way to close the professional life course. It is also a fact that instead of encouraging self-employment and responsibility, the proposal continues to focus on militarised operation and the consistent implementation of higher instructions. In this regard, the full vulnerability of the leaders is a particular problem, since we can see that they can be exonerated at any time without justification, and that, according to the bill, they are even reprimanded in their rank. I would like to stress, however, that the fact that a very welcome step, such as the increase in salaries and the guarantees of this, is included in the bill, but I do not think that this may be an authorisation to try to tighten up and restrict rights on the back of this stock. I would like to mention further specifics, which we object to. The proposal contains a paragraph whereby the law enforcement body may also, under the conditions laid down in this Act, suspend a member of the professional staff in relation to the conduct related to the professional service relationship by means of a technical means to do so. In this paragraph, an extremely broad definition or methods of control are not indicated in the context of professional service-related behaviour. In any case, it is expected for us to include in the bill exactly what kind of service provision could be used to control the stock, and exactly what means. Without it, this paragraph cannot remain so in our view. I would like to quote another:. The national commander and the national director-general may, by means of a public body regulation, prohibit the member of the professional staff from publishing data on his/her professional status as an individual on the internet site when he/she declares his/her personal opinion. In our opinion, this paragraph must be deleted in any way, since acts which fall within the scope of disciplinary responsibility can, in any case, be sanctioned at the present time. We do not understand why such a restriction would be necessary. I would like to add that the staff members are currently subject to an impeccable life control check, and I do not think that such an investigation would reveal that someone is expressing opinions or using photos on internet sites or social media sites that are otherwise not worthy of the profession of law enforcement. So I think that for those who are members of the stock and serve, there is a very small chance that such content would be uploaded or expressed in opinions that could be linked in this respect, or that could be any negative for the law enforcement profession. [[9.40]] I think it is more useful to know, on social media, on the Internet, that they are police officers, that they work in disaster management, because this can also increase social respect, increase prestige. It is incomprehensible that content such as an officer's oath should not be uploaded to the Internet, why not be proud of it. I think people who serve here are very proud of their profession and proud of what they do. In the case of such a regulation, if it remains in the bill, the national commander may also prohibit content which would otherwise not have a direct negative impact on the judgment of law enforcement bodies or would be a disciplinary offence. Another objectionable element is that national security personnel would be subject to regular polygraph control. By the way, we consider this extremely excessive. If this is a polygraph check, we believe that this would be a maximum option for new entrants or for an emerging system, and I would like to stress that in the event of the proper representation of interests. Because, moreover, it is also proposed that national security services should have organisations representing interests. That's another point I don't understand. I think that it is impossible to refer to international examples, because if we look at the current functioning of Hungary, the Hungarian government, then I think that it is not comparable, unfortunately, to Western examples. The fact that interest representatives have been working well with national security services for decades clearly demonstrates that maintaining this further is a legitimate expectation. I would also like to add that the representation of national security services is already limited, since it is already limited for the staff to go to court, so we do not believe that it is justified that they do not have representative organisations. I would also like to highlight the resolution of the issue of over-service. Here the proposal looks like it will be redeemed in the future in freedom. The current Hst. He said it could be redeemed in cash. It is clear that the immediate introduction of this change would be a huge burden. It was also mentioned at the multi-party consultation that it is expected that the current regulation should be maintained in any way by 2018. There is currently no date in the bill. So we would certainly expect the introduction of this change to be made on a specific date in the proposal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much, I'll continue from here.
u2015-03-18-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is coming, Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2015-03-18-7	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, In 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP took over the country's governance, we had several commitments regarding law enforcement organisations. The first is to put an end to the system of pensioning employees of law enforcement organisations under different retirement ages, because it was extremely harmful for both the operation and the composition of the stock. It is also extremely unfair, for we know that he was one of the top fighters in the fight against the abolition of early retirement pensions, he is a journalist in fact, and there is no reason to retire in a journalist's position, let's say at the age of 45, just as a police officer on the street, if any. In addition, this was justified by the fact that, according to an internal survey, the most attractive of the police career or the law enforcement organizational career was the early retirement option, which is a bit absurd, because if we finally ask why you actually chose this career: so that I could stop working as soon as possible. It is not that public service, the protection of order, the safety of citizens - and this was also seen on the stock's age list. But we knew that this was causing very serious tensions, so we also agreed that, of course, as we put the budget and the country's economy in order, and it is possible to do so, of course, wages must also be settled with law enforcement organisations, since there has been no substantial wage improvement in these sectors since 2000. After four years, the country, under the leadership of the government, can say that it has recovered from the disaster produced by the socialists, the budget is orderly, the economy is growing. Now is the opportunity to settle the wages, and in accordance with this promise, as Sándor Pintér said in the early 2010s, he is now the author of the law that actually brings an end to the transformation, because here is the wage development in this law that we took up at the time. We thank the law enforcement workers for their patience and for the confidence that they have voted for us more or less, waiting for this proposal to be made. I am very pleased that this promise can be fulfilled. On average, wage development will be roughly 50 percent compared to the current one when the five-year wage development process ends. Of course, this changes depending on the different positions and grades, as this will be a 30 per cent surplus in the first step for the deputy officers, ensigns and officers who perform the basic tasks, which will be 25 per cent, but even 15 per cent for managers. A special advantage of this system is that it is a much more transparent and cleaner system, since the proposal eliminates the thirty different types of bonus, which was not particularly simple even for the bartender, and creates bonuses linked to four categories, which can be paid. At the same time, it is a very important question that we know that police personnel are not sufficient to carry out tasks during normal working hours in order to carry out certain tasks or in the event of the occurrence of certain exceptional cases of law enforcement organisations, and therefore very often overwork is carried out. The EU's general labour legislation says that if overwork is imposed by the employer, it must otherwise be issued to the overworker on his own time. That is what the proposal before Parliament is about, by the way. At the same time, it can be seen and known that, in order to give free time after the overwork that may be imposed, an increase of between 3 and 4 thousand people would be required compared to the current stock, which is obviously a time to achieve, since these people need to be trained, to fill the stock. We therefore see the fact that the group makes a compromise proposal for a proposal that leaves it to law enforcement workers to decide what they want. So in the transitional period, until 2018, when the stock will be charged to such an extent that this over-work order may no longer entail significant tensions, let us also tell the workers in the law that if they order overtime, they should decide to pay, pay for this over-work, or ask us to give them the extra work in free time. [[9.50]] Then, I think that part of the freedom of choice for workers is not violated, because obviously there are different situations in life, some people need to be able to say, of their own free will, yes, I would be happy to do the overwork, to pay for it in the pre-defined order, or even a life situation where they say that I would like to take this overwork part in freedom. I believe that by 2018 we can create in the budget the conditions that may be necessary for the prescribed overwork, as we cannot predict whether there will be a spring flood, in the autumn, if there will be a situation where the workers of law enforcement organisations need to be used in a larger number of cases, there may always be a crisis in relation to immigration, large sporting events, other matters where it is necessary to ask staff to do more work, but they should be left free until 2018 whether we pay them or give them freedom. It is very important that this proposal corrects the slightly tense situation that the rank and rank in the current system differed significantly, so that it was not synchronised, and anyone who knows these hierarchyed organisations knows that, where appropriate, it created a greater tension, but at least incomprehensible situations if the rank and rank do not synchronize, because, where appropriate, not everyone can already see what position they are in - their rank is immediately visible - and this can be misleading. This is managed by the proposal and links the ranks to a certain schedule, thus making this mess easier. We think it is very important that this whole system creates a career model that really doesn't interest police or law enforcement workers, if they do their job well, if their careers are going well, or if they love this job, they are happy to spend the time or work in it, because because of some kind of distorted relationship, they leave this career early. This proposal also encourages law enforcement workers to fill these posts until they are retired, as the age-bound wage bonus for wage supplements increases so exponentially that the incentive effect of this will be particularly significant over the age of 50. When you think about the fact that, in today's circumstances, a 50-year-old person, even under general health conditions - if he still listens to his health - is in fact in the prime of his strength, he is experienced, he has enough routine, he has an active 15-20 years ahead, he has ambition, his career may be complete, it was completely absurd to have a previous system that actually resulted in the average age of law enforcement personnel ranging from 30 to 35. We know that not only are those of the best age, but those of the far below age, who have not yet experienced enough, are leaving the field. This means that all organisations, which, for various reasons, mainly because of the absolutely distorted and sickly systems of interest created by the socialists, will be distorted, will have a lower performance even if, by the way, the workers in it perform their duties with sufficient routine and conscience. This is the career model, and this system will fix it. Even so, it will take 5 to 10 years for the average age of 35 years to reach 40 to 45 years, which can result in a much healthier chorus. In any case, the fact that the law enforcement organisation's career is attractive, its salary system is transparent, predictable and encourages people in the right way, this in itself may, in any case, strengthen or increase the performance of law enforcement organisations under any unchanged conditions. We therefore consider it very important that, in the presentation of the Minister for the Interior, this proposal is in front of this House. We would like to ask the government's willingness to compromise with this combined system of payment of overtime and for the freedom or choice of workers, I would add that it is true that the law should state how long this will be maintained in order to ensure transparency and predictability. This is also a kind of pressure for the government, of course, because it also means that if we maintain this system until 31 December 2018, and then the main rule is that law enforcement workers must be given extra time to overwork, this means that the organization has a very serious force of at least 3-4 000 people. Moreover, it is important to see that this system can only be maintained if the budget is in order, and the Hungarian economy is doing well, the growth is at least 2-3 percent, as it is known that, for example, because of the age-related incentive system, as a healthier age structure of the stock comes up, there is a higher budget expenditure than the current one, when the stock is relatively young and relatively few of the stock can receive progressive increases in age. But we believe that if these processes, which we have achieved together with our efforts, are lasting, then this model can be financed from the budget. I therefore call on this House to support this proposal. We are very pleased that the government has tabled this, and I would like to thank once again the law enforcement workers for the perseverance and the confidence that has allowed us to get this far. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Mirkóczki, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-03-18-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In the first place, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Home Affairs for the opportunity again - like the process of creating a national security law - to say our criticisms in advance, and in this respect I trust that, as in previous practice, they will be sufficiently flexible and constructive not only of the various parties, but also of the government and the ministry itself, and indeed we will manage to put this very serious proposal in a form that will be well supported by as many parties as possible. What is basically the objectives, the criteria to be achieved and set out - how can I say - we agree, we consider it important and necessary, and this proposal cannot be put off any longer, but there are a number of elements that we cannot go without saying, trusting that we, too, will be able to improve this proposal with a number of amendments. The first of these, which has been affected in almost all or all of the speakers before me, is a matter of service pension. We fully agree with that, and I think that the vast majority of Hungarian society - if not all of it - agreed that the practice that was in the period prior to the taking of service pensions was not feasible, that it was able to retire at a happy, unhappily early age and full of strength. However, we believe that what the government has done in this regard in the previous cycle, and that is a little on the other side of the horse, so that one at the same time has abolished this system and has not distinguished between different special tasks or jobs. We think that this proposal, although trying to correct it now, is still insufficient. [[10.00]] We also believe that those who are in the service staff, but who do not carry out office work or any kind of hazard level work, need not provide such opportunities and unjustified benefits there, but that part of the executive staff, who perform a particularly dangerous job, are under a particularly difficult physical or psychological strain - and here we can talk about firefighters or different police departments or departments - should give the opportunity, especially if there is a serious injury to health or serious trauma, whether physical or psychological, not to give God in relation to a horror, then there should be the possibility that the government can reward or reward this in a way that has been done before. So after 20-25 years of actual service and service in a special area that we had before. At the same time, we see efforts to do this, but perhaps we could think about it a little bit more here, but we agree that there is no place for previous practice to return. I was mentioned by the speakers before me, perhaps the head speaker of the MSZP, to limit the various freedoms. There's a lot going on here, surveillance, technical surveillance. We may have a problem with that; it is as if it could be understood by an unjustified Big Brother or state terror, which could lead to self-limiting or frustrating those involved. We would like to clarify this precisely why and how they imagine it, either technically, financially or at the level of human policy, because in each observation case, the big question is who is guarding the guardians. So here it would be good to know, in part, what these technical conditions will look like, and for what purpose and by whom they will use it or, where appropriate, abuse it. There's exaggeration. So now that your own mobile phone or credit card cannot be used, we consider this to be an unjustified exaggeration. At the same time, with the uniformed staff or the executive staff in charge, let us say, not politicalising, and not expressing their views on the social network, whether party politics or not, this can be agreed. It is not their job; I think that as individuals, everyone can do whatever he wants; when he is on duty, we do not see fault in refraining from such - how shall I put it - communication or actions. As far as the family-friendly part of the proposal is concerned, we are critical in this, and I also talked about it at the five-party meeting. We have concerns, I believe, Minister, if you have said that this has been assessed, and this is the daily practice that it is possible to travel for three hours a day, so when you go back to work and return from work, the proposal is set at one-and-a-half hours - we feel that this is a little too much. Especially in a job where the service is physically and psychologically demanding, it is not a family-friendly solution to travel the service provider for another three hours. So we think that maybe we could expect some flexibility from you on this, and let's just say we're gonna take this back for two hours, so an hour or so might be enough. We'll see how this works. I'm not even sure he's lucky that only 25 percent of freedom is available to the employee. It's 10 days. In the case of a large family servant or staff member, ten days a year, here you normally think that if you go on a holiday, that's enough. However, I am deliberately stressing to the large family that there are a number of unexpected situations where God does not give to children or to one of the children or family members, husband or wife, and then it is imperative to touch his freedom. So we think that this 25 percent is too small; if there is a way and opportunity, then we ask you to think about it or think about it, and perhaps extend this percentage a little bit. What Minister has said in his expo is who can be an officer and what expectations there is, here is a perfectly legitimate restriction on language knowledge and language examination, but, as I mentioned at the meeting on Monday, as the taxatique of the proposal lists the various languages, we see shortcomings there. I will also say this here, so that it can be recorded in the minutes, and let us not forget, although I would add that we will present it in an amendment. So, for example, if a person now has a Spanish or Italian exam, he cannot be an officer in the present proposal, because these two languages, for example, are not included in the taxation list. So we think it's absolutely necessary to correct it. There will be an earlier, standard practice for some leaders or their circles - and I do not intend to assume the bad, but we have heard of it - which could give rise to various abuses and cause legal uncertainty in the stock that a lot of details will be regulated by regulation, for example, in terms of wage increases, which is very important and very forward-looking, but currently it is difficult to forint. So the percentage is fine, but we don't see any tangible numbers yet, and we can't count on that. I would therefore urge a little caution here as to what this will mean today, precisely forinted on the part of the stock performing the basic tasks and on the part of the non-core stock. There was talk about the salary, and almost everyone talked about it, and before me, President Kósa, so that it would be possible to choose for a while whether the payment would solve the person's freedom or slippage. I would like to draw attention to another point here, and that is understandable, although we do not know whether this will actually happen by 2018 or if it will come into force in 2018, but this proposal, or what Minister said at the five-party meeting, is that this is necessary and that you will push it out to 2018 so that 3,200 people will be trained and thus stocked. This shows, however, that what we have said for five years or over the last few years is critical of the fact that police personnel are not uploaded and are struggling with deficiencies in every place and area, which is here. This is exactly what it is about, because in the criminal area, and specifically in the criminal area, where there are many cases and few workers - if you like - the policeman, it is true that if this were to come into force not in 2018, but tomorrow, then the system could collapse if it was not possible to redeem the overwork with money. So here I think that the Ministry has also admitted that everything is not okay. It's okay, it's just when we criticize, I think it's obvious that there's a basis. What we would like to highlight - and this is certainly a positive one - is the regulation of housing aid. It wasn't and it wasn't like this before. We believe that if we are talking about a career model and we want to make the profession predictable and existentially attractive, this is an indispensable step, and this is certainly commendable and should be supported. Unfortunately, what the draft does not change or does not change sufficiently, this may even be traced back to the Gergényi period, marked by his name, that in some cases the members of the professional staff may feel that they are not protected by anything. After all, at that time, it was a steady practice that if the policeman or a policeman, say, committed something that was not necessarily linked to a crime, it could be suspended from the service, and it is now possible to suspend for 18 months. [[10.10]] This is a problem because during this period, benefits and salaries may fall. So here, if we return to the family-friendly question again, this could cause some problems for police officers with small children. So if it could be specifically modified and clarified here, which cases or specific cases where even a police officer can be suspended for 18 months, then let's do them. So let's not leave any rubber rules or flexibility elements where a superior, let's just say, is free to decide whether or not to suspend a colleague. This may not seem to be a racially significant thing, but it will be a very serious and vital issue for those affected, I think, if they are put in such a situation. So, overall, the proposal can be concluded that it is trying to address a forward-looking situation, the current situation or the unsustainable situation that has existed for many years. We will have a number of amendments which try to address the criticisms that have been expressed at some level. I trust, with what I started, that if we follow the practice of negotiating the previous national security law and you will follow it, then I think that this will not have two-thirds support, but significantly greater. For our part, we can guarantee and ensure a constructive attitude. I would also ask everyone to approach this issue on a professional basis, and then we will see whether it will succeed or what outcome it will produce. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for the first independent Members. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-18-11	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no debate between us about the importance of the material, moral and professional appreciation of law enforcement personnel. That's why it was ironic, almost offensive, what I heard from pro-government representatives after some amnesia. Mr. Secretary, in the Expoze, you said that we should not forget that these colleagues are protecting us and our families. We do not need to remind us of this, Minister, because everyone sitting here knows it, and the vast majority of Hungarian citizens, who, by the way, comply with the laws, also know it. The representatives of the ruling parties spoke of respect for law enforcement workers, and it was here that my opposition colleagues mentioned it as an appreciation, as you have, by the way, the law enforcement workers, the case of the service pension, which, by the way, was defended vehemently in opposition when the government at the time wanted to do the internal reform, and then arrived at the government, and spoke to law enforcement workers with such kind words as Kádár-hussars, as Gyurcsány's police officers. I don't like those terms, I don't really use them as policemen of Orbán or policemen of Pintér, because I think they are wrong; because I think they are working for the benefit of Hungarian citizens, the police are law enforcement workers, they are police officers of Hungary. But speaking of respect, my fellow Members, it was you who passed an act of nullity on the proposal of a man who then received a position as a gift in the Constitutional Court, and you clearly stated in the bill that the policeman was lying - all of this out of political motivation, Minister. The salary system is very important, legal certainty is very important. However, I would also like to make it clear to those who still have the opportunity to listen to Parliament and to Hungarian voters that you consider it important that everyone who thinks that it is necessary to get out of the way has been cleared out of the way, sits in government positions and then teaches us from these positions that we should not forget what kind of work the police are doing. And obviously, there was a fall of 2006 here, reading through the minutes of that report, we are experiencing something very interesting, fellow Members. At that time, opposition representatives, current pro-government representatives, were not on the side of the police; I would add, not the Republic. What kind of appreciation are you talking about, fellow Members? What kind of appreciation? ! Kádár-hussar? Is the cop lying? We're withdrawing the service pension - and now they're submitting a bill that refers to the illegitimate Fundamental Law. And the Fundamental Law is illegitimate, because it was not born as a good compromise of competing political views, but as your dictator. Your dictatorship! Here, my opposition colleagues have spoken about issues that can and should be amended. We think it is all in this form, especially because it is based on the Fundamental Law, and it states that all the good things started here after 2010... - I would like to say to Congressman Kósa that he is already experiencing their blessed activities in the country. What you have done is a blessing, ask the law enforcement staff or former law enforcement workers who, as a result of your blessed activities, have much less income, and more than that, a significant part of them have taken over and left the country. Your blessing is very important, but not just for the voters, but for their own environment. The matter of the service pension is not settled in this bill either. It's not arranged! You're not giving me a solution to what you already know. Of course, it is easy to say, fellow Members, that because anyone sitting in the office is getting a service pension. The problem, my fellow Members, is that you thought you were cutting. They're cutting, they're not thinking! They don't care about the cop who's on the street, they don't care about the fireman who's pulled the accident out of the car, they don't care about the cops who are in the accident, they don't care about the firefighters who put out the fire, and I can still tell. Because they came up with how good it is to be able to turn the civilian world against law enforcement workers again. I'd like to congratulate you. That's great. That's great. - they were doing a job. Your blissful activities have been excellent in this. As far as freedoms are concerned, I believe that police personnel and obviously not only police personnel, but also law enforcement personnel, are aware that when they choose such a profession, their freedoms will be restricted. Therefore, and in addition to the fact that his rights of liberty are restricted, it is obvious, as it follows from the oath, that the armed authorities carry out this task by sacrificing their lives and risking their lives in law enforcement agencies. But that does not mean, fellow Members, that these people are being thrown into the system, their lives are being risked, their fundamental freedoms are being reduced, and, in return, this community, which is called home, gives nothing. I would like to say that the service pension was, by the way, part of this compensation scheme and not only in Hungary. So anyone who knows the international world knows precisely that this is part of the system of benefits, with which the community of citizens living in the country and home is, of course, thanking the government for this sacrifice. Of course, when it comes to the restriction of freedoms, this is not a problem for you. We have experienced this not only with law enforcement employees but also at the level of the average voter, so this will not be a problem for you. [[10.20]] Here they do not assume, as we have seen before, that the law enforcement worker, although serving as a policeman, a firefighter or a bv, is basically a good man in the good sense of the word. They assume immediately that they will do so immediately, and put it in there without limitation and without reason that otherwise this can be restricted. Let's put it in the law, that's your position. What would happen, and then it would be a huge innovation in your regime if people were to assume that people in general are so good that the police, the bvs, the firefighters, I could once again list all law enforcement personnel, they want to be basically loyal, not to you, but to this country and all that this country embodies. If this were to happen, I think they would think differently about restricting freedoms. My fellow Members, it is always very good when there is a raise, by the way. Everybody's always happy about that. Obviously, this is where the entire bill is built, and I can already predict the communication that anyone who does not vote in favour of this is not in favour of increasing the benefits of law enforcement workers. This is obviously not the case, but we know - how to say it - this is the political part of this thing. I would like to remind you, and obviously the Ministry also remembers that the single-key 16 percent tax has caused a significant problem in the stock. In fact, the minister in his expo, but he will correct, if not, half-accepted that the leading staff had a 16 percent benefit. So who got the 16 percent? The one who made a lot of money is the Supreme Circle. He didn't add that, but I'm the one who added that it was obviously the wrong person to be in a lower position. Let us not forget that, however blessed it was, as Congressman Kósa said, the activity of Fidesz was, after all, a 27-percent VAT has slipped in, and the economic conditions are not as good here as they said they were. It is clear that wage compensation will be discussed in the long term if we really see the amount of this in the budget every year. We see this at the Ministry of the Interior, so not at the Prime Minister's Office, elsewhere, but specifically at the Ministry of the Interior. And we can obviously see if it causes wage tension within the system, whether you actually keep your word. 'Cause they're not that good at it. They are very good at propaganda, blessed activity, but not so good at keeping their word. It has been said that this is a strictly closed hierarchy system, and there is indeed no debate between us, but it is very important that there are no droids in the system. Don't think of the policeman today, or the bv guy, the fireman, that it's his job to do this without thinking. Obviously, there is a reference to this in the bill. But they are only people, my fellow Members. They also have interests to represent. It is quite obvious that the MRK created for the Mussolini sample is not suitable for this task. You are not so much in favour of this trade union thing, especially when it involves people with different political views, but the MRK, which is a trade union held by the state, is not capable of representing the interests of these people, even if they are able to write very nice papers. It's not a good time! I accept and acknowledge that I think that there was no problem with the importance of regulating trade union operations in such a system, because this is an area that concerns the security of the nation, the order of the country. But getting from the union to putting together a Mussolini profession - I think there are transitions somewhere, and it might have been worth thinking about. Overall, the regulation of wage development, making it clear, the legal certainty that has not yet existed, these are positive things. But the fact that this bill, which defines human lives, is based on a Fundamental Law, which, once again, is illegal in our political position, because it is not born as a good compromise of competing political views, but represents your exclusive views; a bill for which it is natural for law enforcement workers to be represented by MRK, is a bill that is preceded by your past four-year conduct from the Kádár-hussar, the termination of the service pension, the unacceptable introduction of the term, until the vote of the law of nullity, until the humiliation of police officers... - such a bill is not eligible. The representatives of the Democratic Coalition will therefore not support this bill and all other proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Minister asked for the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-18-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start by continuing to provide opportunities for consultation and acceptance of proposals. So the Ministry of Interior's professional staff is ready, the entire staff management of the Ministry of Interior is prepared to review your proposals and see how they can be adapted to the text of the current law, the principles of the law. The other thing I would like to say in any way is that we are talking about a party policy-neutral organisation now when we talk about this law. Since we are talking about party policy-neutral organisations, I ask honourable Members, honourable groups, to act accordingly, to speak to them accordingly and to shape the text of the law accordingly. I would like to express my opinion on some issues immediately, which will not change significantly in the future. Firstly, the question of service pension: I would like to clarify the concept. This is not about the normal pension of professional staff. It is not that he has reached the upper retirement age, which was five years less than the general retirement age, but that he asked for his retirement pension after or before 25 years of service because of health problems. The use and use of this option led to almost no police officers over the age of 40 in 2010. This has led to the fact that at the moment we have only a hundred colleagues who have exceeded 60 years. It led to the middle layer leaving the service and trying to make progress in other areas. So we would like, as I said in my introduction, to have the middle layer that has the necessary skill, knowledge, strength to do the task and to educate the young. However, it is not clear that we are releasing the hands of colleagues who later become unfit for professional service. After all, I stressed in the introduction that we are providing interoperability to the civil servants' and government officials' careers, and we wish to give these colleagues a place even if they are truly unfit for professional service. We don't want to let go of their hands, we want to keep them in public service. [[10.30]] There was also a question of whether a leader, a commander, could be exonerated without justification. Under current legislation, there are many areas, as government officials can also be exonerated. If it can be exonerated in a civilian area, in a career with increased use and higher expectations, such as professional stock, I believe that there can be no milder legislation, no lighter requirement than in other areas, but there must still be an exemption without justification. The various control issues, the monitoring of professional staff, what technical means can be used. In our everyday life, this is natural for other occupational branches. Of course, a cashier has a camera over him, it's natural to watch the camera, how and how the cashier does his job. Of course, the cashier cannot take cash in his pocket, he cannot engage in activities that jeopardise the performance of his duties. I believe that the transfer of these checkpoints to professional service under no circumstances constitutes a restriction which would be contrary to the Fundamental Law. It's a question of Internet usage. Please, we do not want to prohibit the use of the Internet for any of our colleagues, we do not want to restrict it. We would like one thing: in using the Internet, do not refer to your professional status in your personal life. That is what we want to achieve, because there are more dangers. First of all, there is a danger that he may carry out an act contrary to the criminal code, if he does not pay attention, and perhaps give an opinion about his commander, an opinion about his community to which he serves, which justifies this suggestion. So this is part of it. The other part is that the individual should not use the authority of the organization providing his professional staff in these cases, he should carry out this task in his own name and may not abuse the authority. I think that every professional is a good person, but I want to prevent him from falling into these mistakes. And, of course, it also includes not only using the authority of the organizations, but also destroying it. So I think as a private person, you can do whatever you want, but don't refer to your organization. The question of polygraph was also raised. Please, in a secret service, who may have a mandate that cannot be controlled directly, for a long time, nor can it be verified that other secret services have approached him in any way, it cannot be verified directly that he has carried out his task as he stated, of course, that it is normal for us to have this checked by an investigation, and that this investigation could also be a polygraph investigation. It's a matter of overserving. Whether or not the number of police are sufficient for general tasks at the moment is a difficult question. On the basis of international comparisons, we have done the calculation of the number of police officers, together with the assessment of public trust in Hungary. However, if we want to ensure a continuous number of staff in all settlements and not to have to work overtime, we need a new number of police officers compared to the number previously established and uploaded. This is estimated to be about 3,200 people. In order to be able to hire these new colleagues, we can choose them, properly prepare them and train them properly, it takes time. That is why we are asking that the over-work payment be maintained. To do this, we believe that we will be able to complete it by 2018 using the current system. That is why we ask that overtime be paid, taking into account, of course, the individual's expectation that he would ask for it in his spare time, or that his payment be made. The current burden on the criminal stock is one question: if you consider that in 2010 there were 450 thousand crimes in the country, but in 2014 there are only 310 thousand more, on the one hand, street service, crime prevention, on the other hand, has already reduced these burdens. I hope that the burden of our criminal workers, our criminal colleagues, will be reduced in the future. Is a journey of one and a half hours a long time? I think that we will have to open a debate on this separately. You have to see how much an average worker, an average official, can get from a capital agglomeration. With this in mind, we will have to make the right deal. The employee has 25 percent of the freedom. That's why, despite the commander's wishes, you can take out 25 percent whenever he wants. That's not the kind of problem we've had so far. At the moment, I do not think that this will cause problems, either for the commander or for individuals, because this can only cause problems or problems in a particular case of flooding, in a priority case of illegal migration, which has always been solved by the command staff. Who can be an officer through the language exam, we are ready to review it. I believe that the European Union has some language requirements here that we can meet. I ask that we look at this during the negotiations. I would like to say in the suspension proceedings that we have made one compulsory: the 50 percent wage must be paid on a compulsory basis, since we cannot decide a family into poverty. Nevertheless, I believe that the suspension remains in place. We may be reviewing its duration, but I think that without it, we cannot maintain the proper disciplinary situation and make objective decisions in too short a time. Finally, I would like to talk about credibility. I believe that neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Ministry of the Interior's credibility has been in doubt in recent years. So I think the word we're saying is authentic. It has also been said that we want to turn law enforcement workers against the civilian world. Please, we don't want to, we don't want to, and we're working for the opposite. And we are working effectively, because if we look at how the civilian world today views the activities and work of police officers, for example, we see that, on the basis of polls, police officers are considered the most competent, the most competent team to do their job by the civilian population, the citizens. So I think that it is wrong to judge values that think that we are going to turn anyone against anyone, and that the starting point is that the civilian population and citizens do not recognise the activities of police or professional personnel so far. In 2010, I was approached by the first Trade Union Stakeholder Forum to restore the authority of the police. Then I told them that the Ministry, the minister, couldn't fix this. The authority of the police must be earned by the organisation itself, the organization itself must be achieved by effective work. Here I can safely say that, in preparing this law, it has become clear to me that the professional staff has acquired this authority, gained it for themselves, and that the civilian population, the civilian population, has acknowledged it. Mr President, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[10.40]]
u2015-03-18-14	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, From here, two minutes' speeches are possible, and from here we move on to regular speeches. First I give the floor to Mr Péter Ágh, who has registered in writing for a speech, followed by the speeches of the candidates for the push-button speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-15	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I think that there is no reason to wonder, hearing all that Mrs Vadai has said, because she has done nothing but, in fact, canceled the panel collection of the Democratic Coalition. We could hear you here from Mussolini to the illegitimate constitution. In this regard, I think that what can be noted. It's an illegal law, that's what we heard. What does all this show? That the representative of the Democratic Coalition still cannot respect all the election results that were born in 2010. This was how the Fundamental Law was adopted, since at that time the two-thirds of Parliament was created by the mandate of the electorate, and thanks to this it was possible to draft a basic law for the Parliament. If the Congresswoman doubts this, she does not respect the will of the voters. We've also heard about the blessing you put in the Fidesz government. Well, thanks to this blessed activity, economic growth has increased, real wages have increased, and a situation has developed that could lead to sectoral wage increases, and in this connection we can now negotiate this law. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What growth?]] And let's not forget that, if you have to go back to the past, you led the police in a brazen way, you've come to this profession in a brazen way. Let's just think that it was you who sent the police in crisis without protective equipment to take action. All of this, I think, points out well the attitude that you have taken. It was you who took away the 13th month's pension. But there is a long list of activities on the basis of which the certificate was issued, and on the basis of all that, the voters have made several decisions about your fate. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You will also be...]] However, now, beyond the political mood that the Member has set in motion, I think it is time to return to the professional proposal that lies before us. The speakers before me gave a detailed description of some of the elements and innovations of the law on law enforcement, and I would therefore not mention them in detail. However, I am pleased to be able to take part personally in the debate, as we have talked about this several times with Mr State Secretary in the various forms of interpellation and immediate question, and we have been very curious about when this bill will come in. It is clear to everyone that the amendment to the law currently governing the service of law enforcement personnel was timely. Since the entry into force of the Law on the Service of Professional Members of Armed Bodies adopted in 1996, 86 amendments have affected the structure and internal coherence of the law. In particular, the significant changes resulting from the government decisions of the last four years, such as the termination of the service pension, senior pool, eased service, as well as the interoperability of interoperability between public service vocational orders, performance assessment and the integration of the reserve system within the framework of the law referred to, have been a major challenge from both the codification and the enforcement side. This had to be settled anyway. The bill relies on the structure and concept of the former law, the legal institutions resulting from the characteristics of the professional service, but it also seeks to create a career model for law enforcement workers with a new approach, structural and substantive innovations. The bill offers career opportunities that in future professional staff in this area will be valued in all respects. This respect has been earned, because maintaining Hungary's independence and legal order, protecting the financial assets and security of citizens and the nation is a public service provided by law enforcement workers. The stock has long been waiting for the introduction of a new career model, which, as has been said before, has been completed with the involvement of the stock and trade unions. I would like to say to Mrs Vadai that if she were here: there have been negotiations with the unions, there have been serious discussions, and even this week there has been a five-party consultation on the subject. The new salary system has already been presented to me, but I would also like to note that this wage development can be a worthy recognition of the work carried out so far by law enforcement personnel, but it also strengthens the career and makes the career of law enforcement attractive for young people. A transparent salary system replaces the inaccessible bonus system, so far the allowances will not be abolished, most of them will be incorporated into the salary. With the new salary system, the value of the given job, the experience and performance of the service will really be recognised, as well as the ability to ensure a gradual increase in salary for the entire career. On the basis of the once-a-year benchmarking, performance benefits can be paid twice a year, which also stimulates quality work. With the adoption of the draft, a new system of advancement will be established in addition to the new salary system. The new system of advancement would ensure equal recognition for the members of the staff, regardless of whether someone constantly takes a higher position or rather does not want to step up from a given position, but is doing his job excellently, thus ensuring recognition for everyone. The new system of advancement ensures that, in the event of progress within the system, it recognises the experience gained so far, guaranteeing an increase in salary, while it starts at the very first step of the job from outside the system. Thus, the staff members are encouraged to remain in the system and to be given promotion, whether horizontal or vertical. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the law provides the professional staff of law enforcement bodies with the legal framework, conditions and innovations that will guarantee the independence and maintenance of our country's legal order through the work of law enforcement personnel. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr. András Schiffer Group Leader, please.
u2015-03-18-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is not my place to protect Agnes Vadai, but I think it is in the interest of the facts that what was done to law enforcement workers in the previous cycle was integrally integrated into the social policy that was about the continuous cycle between 2010 and 14 - I think, as the Habony works have stipulated - choosing different social groups, crushing them, trying to create tension against various attacked social groups. This is also extremely exciting in this area, because I remember very well that in the autumn of 2006, when it came to the idea that the government, which, by the way, was the Secretary of State of Ágnes Vadai, might terminate the service pension in an outgoing system, was Demeter Ervin and perhaps Péter Szijjártó, if my memory is not wrong - but it can be searched back in video - and they stood stone hard for the law enforcement workers, that the Gyurcsány government would want to deprive them of their pension. Compared to this, when you've won the... well, Secretary of State Kontra shakes his head, you deny it. That's how I remember it. We can watch the video together. What happened was, when the Soclib government wanted to terminate the service pension in an outgoing system, Fidesz protested hard and claimed that the Gyurcsány government wanted to deprive the police of their legitimate rights. That's what happened. Then, four years later, they won the election, and this is not the only area where Fidesz took a 180 - degree turn: in power he did something quite different from what he preached in opposition. Dear Parliament, Of course, the bill before us has several honourable initiatives. We are primarily interested in three areas: one of the ways in which the settlement of professional service relationships can reduce employee poverty in the public sector at least in this area, and we are interested in how the situation in this sector is changing, and lastly - and not least - I do not wish to conjure up the historical images that Ágnes Vadai has taken, but it is crucial for the LMP to ensure freedom of organisation for law enforcement workers, and it is not possible to destroy trade unions in law enforcement agencies. [[10.50]] As regards employee poverty, it is worth moving a little away from the specific sector, and it is worth noting that, since 2008, there has been no wage increases in the public sector employing 600-700 thousand people, except teachers and doctors, since 2008 the Gyurcsány government. The salary base for public service officials has not increased since 2008 and between 2010 and 2014, 60 percent of public service workers, i.e. 400 thousand people, did not raise their net income by a penny. Due to the abolition of the tax credit, wage compensation was necessary even to maintain it at net level. This means that employees' poverty today is nearly one third of the public sector's workforce, 30 percent of employees, 186 500 people receive minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. they earn below HUF 80,000 net. The LMP considers wage increases of law enforcement workers to be delayed and slow. I say this by, of course, welcoming the intention in itself. We believe it is unacceptable for the government to set the wage increase as a success, which it promised four years ago, and which it should have done by then. The 5% increase per year following the one-off increase will not result in a substantial improvement in the financial situation of law enforcement workers, and it is not yet guaranteed whether the promised 30% increase will be achieved after the full restructuring, because the removal of the allowances will easily leave this promise. It is also unacceptable that the new legislation puts law enforcement workers in a more vulnerable position than at present. We need to strengthen workers' rights at all levels in Hungary, including law enforcement workers, and therefore we will not be able to support any proposal that goes against it. According to the LMP, the introduction of a career model must be linked to the restructuring of the entire police structure and the separation of the central police and the Community police that we have been demanding for four years, strengthening the latter. We think it's a real solution just to develop a career model that can make law enforcement an attractive and secure career again. According to LMP, the recently announced career model is not suitable for this, so we will not be able to support it in this form. The following claims can be made specifically in relation to the career model. On the one hand, restore the service pension. Today, in Hungary, workers' poverty is the problem of full insecurity among workers, especially in the public sector. The sense of security that was destroyed in 2011-12 must be restored. The rights acquired cannot be taken away, and if you do not do so, one of the first tasks of the next government in 2018 will be to take back those people who were deprived of their rightful rights in 2011-12 and put them in a position that would not have happened then. It has been proven that the abolition of a service pension has led, in your words, to unfairly difficult situations for hardworking people who are in bad health because of their profession. You are obviously aware of this problem, but you are not willing to change your previous wrong position and approach this problem bypassing it. The LMP expects the government not to try to patch up a bad system, but to restore service pensions to ensure that all law enforcement workers have a decent and secure living after duty. Secretary of State, it is not that we would welcome a system where 41-42-year-old police officers, in full power and at the highest level of education, can retire. That's not what we want. Secretary, that's not what we want. However, it is intolerable in a rule of law that if a person has acquired a right under previous laws, it can then be revoked by a stroke of a pen. 45-50-year-old people who have entered the private sector, for example, in the belief that this is legal, you are forcing them back or taking away their pension. The following is: ensure fair wages and working conditions for non-professional workers. It should be noted that workers' poverty in the law enforcement sector is the most affected precisely by non-professional workers. Among them, the stipend development will hopefully really affect professional staff, patrols and migration firefighters working in basic tasks. However, workers employed in employment or as civil servants still do not receive anything, and even their situation will deteriorate as the status of civil servants ceases to exist. With this, the government preserves workers' poverty, which is why we are proposing that the career model also includes non-professional workers. We also demand that professional overtime money not be taken away. According to the government's proposal, it is now only free time to compensate for the over-service, which is virtually impossible with the current number. The government is driving the workers into a trap, the result of which will be that they will be forced to do more work without additional benefits, as most people have done since the code of exploitation. The situation in Hungary since 2012 is that Hungarian people work more for less money. Give me a guarantee to expand the workforce. The lack of staff makes it impossible to carry out the tasks of individual bodies, police headquarters, and the system of central wage management is subject to the financial aspect, so the organisation cannot adapt to the real needs. We expect the government to reshape the entire funding structure for the implementation of the career model and finally not assign tasks to the costs, but to create the necessary funding for the task to be performed. I can also mention the need to solve the substitution problem. It is unacceptable that the replacement of permanent drop-out workers cannot be solved at the moment by replacement, non-paid overtime. Right now, there are 800 professional women, so at least that many people do their job without any other compensation. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Special attention should be given to the fact that, under current regulations, female workers, female professional staff, are under the electoral pressure to have a policewoman either have a child or become a policeman. In the new career model, they have to choose whether to become cops or mothers. The situation is that of Hst. In principle, it provides an opportunity to work part-time with mothers returning from the child. Shh. 84/A. § (1) contains the following twist:.... and the original position can be completed in part-service performance due to the nature of the function, and then paragraph 2 refers to the fact that the principal offers a function other than the original function. The result of this regulation, however, is that it is difficult in practice for a number of reasons, because the legislation does not record constraints elsewhere that the proposed position should match classification, qualifications and qualifications. Because of central staff management, the status from which the mother had given birth is often no longer present, it is not only part-time, but also full-time, that she may not be able to return to work. Of course, there is also legal provision for this, so employers are insured in case returning mothers sue; I refer to Article 44. § 3a, which states that, in the final instance, if you do not accept the appropriate post, your service relationship must be terminated by acquittal. Dear Secretary of State, In January 2013, ORFK carried out an organizational transformation in order to consolidate the organisational structure and the number of police stations. It was already apparent here that they were not counting mothers with small children who had been placed in the decree-book, since their status could simply not be counted to the number of precincts, so those statuses were lost. Where can these mothers go back? There is simply a regulation at the moment that means that it will not be worth hiring women after this, because if they have children, they cannot be replaced, and even if they can't be taken back. Their skills and experience will simply not be necessary, they will be sacrificed on the altar of the great deity, central wage management. Who would want to hire police women like that? While there is also a public interest, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a particular need for the competences of female professional personnel, such as domestic violence, child abuse cases, or the interrogation of victims of sexual violence. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that there are decades of delays in helping victims and interrogating victims of sexual violence in Hungary today in order to carry out the necessary investigative tasks with appropriate competence and empathy. Finally, I would like to say that, regardless of the above concerns and shortcomings, any such motion, which fundamentally alters the service relationship of professional staff, will only be acceptable to LMP if the freedom of organisation is restored to professional staff. It is a scandal what they have done, that they have virtually deprived the professional people, not just the police, of the freedom of organization. Trade unions are needed in the police, in the defence, especially in the case of non-professionals. [[11.00]] In paragraph 2 of this Article, the following twist is included:............................................................................................................................................................................................................ The result of this regulation, however, is that it is difficult in practice for a number of reasons, because the legislation does not record constraints elsewhere that the proposed position should match classification, qualifications and qualifications. Because of central staff management, the status from which the mother had given birth is often no longer present, it is not only part-time, but also full-time, that she may not be able to return to work. Of course, there is also legal provision for this, so employers are insured in case returning mothers sue; I refer to Article 44. § 3a, which states that, in the final instance, if you do not accept the appropriate post, your service relationship must be terminated by acquittal. Dear Secretary of State, In January 2013, ORFK carried out an organizational transformation in order to consolidate the organisational structure and the number of police stations. It was already apparent here that they were not counting mothers with small children who had been placed in the decree-book, since their status could simply not be counted to the number of precincts, so those statuses were lost. Where can these mothers go back? There is simply a regulation at the moment that means that it will not be worth hiring women after this, because if they have children, they cannot be replaced, and even if they can't be taken back. Their skills and experience will simply not be necessary, they will be sacrificed on the altar of the great deity, central wage management. Who would want to hire police women like that? While there is also a public interest, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a particular need for the competences of female professional personnel, such as domestic violence, child abuse cases, or the interrogation of victims of sexual violence. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that there are decades of delays in helping victims and interrogating victims of sexual violence in Hungary today in order to carry out the necessary investigative tasks with appropriate competence and empathy. Finally, I would like to say that, regardless of the above concerns and shortcomings, any such motion, which fundamentally alters the service relationship of professional staff, will only be acceptable to LMP if the freedom of organisation is restored to professional staff. It is a scandal what they have done, that they have virtually deprived the professional people, not just the police, of the freedom of organization. Trade unions are needed in the police, in the defence, especially in the case of non-professionals. (11.00) I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the last quarter of a century, many social claims and wage claims have been passed on to all employees in Hungary when the public sector trade unions have been on their heels. All you have done in the past four years is a very thoughtful social policy approach, along with a social image in Orbán, is that it was precisely the trade unions of the public sector that were rags, and here the police and military trade unions played a prominent role. So let's be clear. This is not just about the freedom of organisation of professional or non-professional people working for the police, the military. After the change of regime, it turns out that in many cases, the vulnerability of people working in trade and production plants also changes significantly when public sector trade unions hit hard on the current government. It's not just the Fidesz government, it's the fake left-wing governments. The government in office has always felt strong against you when public sector trade unions have stood up for people's rights. You have therefore not only amended the strike law to discourage railway workers from striking, in December 2010, at Christmas, but also systematically hit public sector trade unions. For us, therefore, the starting point for any such bill is to urgently restore the freedom of organisation of defence workers in the police force. This is not only in the interest of professional and non-professional workers working there, but also in the interest of all Hungarian workers. In this country, a worker can achieve meaningful results in social, wage-like claims if there is full freedom of organisation in the public sector. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Béla Turi-Kovács; she will be followed by Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2015-03-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think we all agree that the submission of the law was urgent and cannot be postponed. Over the past long period, government-to-government in all cases have agreed that there is a need for moral appreciation of law enforcement workers - and I stop here because the material has usually been silenced. I think it is now necessary to say that there is a need for material and moral respect, both of them. In recent times, there has been a lag that, in the long term, may doubt that the otherwise highly esteemed and valuable loyalty and devotion that the people working in this area have secured and guaranteed towards the state, the nation, is sustainable. Just some data that may not seem very important here, but it is very important for individuals. A junior police patrolman is bringing home a net of 90,000 forints today. This police patrol, who brings home 90,000 forints, is about to get married most of the time, a young man who starts his career, usually doesn't have a place to live, he should start somewhere. And if you remain honest, you've done a pretty good job. And if you've been a police patrolman for a long time, you'll be bringing home 110,000 forints. Dear House, These numbers are untenable. These are things where a lifestyle cannot be achieved. Therefore, I think the increase was inevitable and necessary. Of course, there are limits to the possibility of raising. The government is now, I feel, going to the limit of opportunity, but we must be very careful that we do not promise long-term increases, but that we promise increases in the way that they actually happen within a time limit. I also agree that there is a clear need to distinguish between the scale of the increase for those who are already at the moment, if not good, but who are in a better position than the former, who are in a higher rank or position. This kind of disstintion would not be acceptable to me if it weren't for the fact that there is such a very far-reaching layer of this society. This social layer, which the audience encounters every day, cannot be left in its present situation. That's the priority. I would like to point out that we small farmers, when we were on the government between 98 and 2002, constantly urged these changes to take place. Much has happened since then, but I believe these changes have not brought about the kind of ascension they deserve. Therefore, this is urgent and cannot be postponed, I think it is not debatable. Dear House, I would like to point out a number of points that have been said, in particular, by opposition speakers, including Jobbik, some of which I agree with and I think they are suitable for consideration. First of all, I have to say, the pension issue. When legislators present us here in this House, and this has been the case for a few years now, some sort of bill, they are eager to bring all kinds of comparative data from Europe and beyond - if they cannot find it here - comparative laws on which they can be based. Let us agree, though, that in most parts of the world, service providers who perform extremely dangerous tasks are valued everywhere in the world, and this also appears in retirement. I think that should be considered. It's not about 40-50-year-olds retiring. It is about ensuring that this solution is fair, and, if not tomorrow, but at least it is clear that the kind of intention and promise to introduce it must be that the length of retirement should be reduced. This is my conviction, although it is very likely now that it will not receive too much support. Freedom. With all due respect, the fact that a law enforcement worker is handing out his freedom is obviously different from that of other law enforcement workers. After all, there are tasks of service that are highly bound here. However, this commitment cannot justify it, and I agree that 25 percent of what he has should be the only one. It is worth considering, and I believe that this should be changed with an amendment. Relocations. It's a very difficult and delicate issue. A whole life situation is changed by a transfer. Therefore, living with this change can only be exceptional, or because it is in the interest of the person himself, and in this case it is a perfectly acceptable and understandable case, or because it is indeed necessary for some reason of service. But then, I have to say, it has to be very, very careful and very, very in the interest of the individual. We're talking about people here, just like in any other area. And here, let me tell you something that I find extremely difficult to understand. We talk about law enforcement workers all the time. It is like talking about doctors all the time in the healthcare sector. Then we'll wash the surgeon, the hospital doctor, and we'll wash it together, please respectfully, the district doctor. They are all doctors - they do different tasks. Therefore, I think that it should not be permanently interrupted by the fact that there is another duty for an armed body and another discipline for an obligation, another life situation to be expected there, and another, but also in the case of a law enforcement worker. This does not necessarily have to be reflected in what pay will be like between us, as this causes the greatest tension, but in a kind of regulatory system. In this regard, I suggest that not today, not tomorrow, but that we consider this part as soon as possible. It has to be clear, and I would like to give you one more example, but I can also give you the example of the engineer. With all due respect, if I say engineer, then I don't mean that it doesn't matter if he's an engineer or if he's building a house. Because it's two different areas. Engineer, of course, all engineers, only these engineers perform useful and necessary service in different fields. Dear House, The extent to which we can and this is what we are talking about here, in the case of law enforcement workers, we have to limit freedoms. [[11.10]] It's a basic question. When a person chooses this calling for life, he clearly acknowledges that he will face certain restrictions, and he accepts these restrictions to a significant extent when choosing a career. However, this should not be unlimited. So when we talk about what kind of checks they might be, I agree that if the person knows what kind of checks they might be. But a decent, honest man and a man who does his job basically for the rest of his life, for the rest of his life, should expect that no action can be taken against him that, say, is entirely justified against a criminal. Therefore, I think that there is a need for disstintion here too, that certain questions need to be considered. Dear House, There's one more part I'd like to get to. How should a law enforcement worker participate in the life of society? What does it mean to participate in society's life? What is there to exclude, what is it that you need to participate in, or is it justified to participate in, because it is an integral part of the Hungarian nation, even if you are a policeman, a firefighter, if there is anything else within this area? He is an integral part of this nation. Therefore, these limits must be defined in such a way that the fundamental human rights that we all have with us are not violated. Do not participate in party politics; this is perfectly justified and understandable. But in social policy? Why wouldn't he be involved? They expect it in certain areas, in a small settlement, to have a word from the local fireman, say, there, in that settlement. I think that this is lifelike, and it is also necessary to think about it. Spare ends. Once again, let us say a few sentences about the pecunial parts, for there has been much talk of spiritual matters. So, the financials. I understand that the elimination of thirty types of allowances, the inclusion of five allowances, is a very well-sounding and positive step. I'm sure there'll be some people who will benefit from it, some who won't. The measure is the question. How good is it, how bad is it? Does this compensate or assist wage increases in some negative way? I didn't get an answer to that, and I'm looking forward to having a sensible answer not for me, but for the stakeholders. It should be clear who is in the primary interest of this kind of re-allocation of allowances in the given situation. I think that it is important to respond to this because it is not about big money, it is not about hundreds of thousands, it is about the kind of remuneration that is necessary to make a living, it is about the kind of remuneration that cannot be reduced, but it can increase in our intentions. I hope that this is a sensible proposal which will be incorporated into this law, and in this case we small farmers can also support the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Márta Demeter is next, within a 15-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-18-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue where I have left off my speech as a keynote speaker, because in addition to the recognition that the stock can finally receive the appropriate salary increase that it deserves, and the law provides the basis for this guarantee, and we have also made criticism of the proposal on a number of points. I would just like to say this quickly: for example, control of the stock by technical means, restriction of freedom of expression, abolition of interests in national security services, or polygraph control; and I would like to say a few more points on what is in the law that is absolutely necessary for improvement or cancellation. I would like to stress that the MSZP can only support the bill if these amendments are adopted and appear in a new bill or incorporated into it. So in this case, we will only be able to support it. Obviously, that would be the goal, and we would be pleased to have them included, so that we can support the proposal. But let me continue with the criticism. It does not settle the law and does not mention how they intend to settle the fate of the stock that has become unfit and decommissioned for health, psychological reasons after 1 January 2012. It may be a solution to bring forward the planned insurance system, but we do not yet know anything about this insurance system, just that it has been promised. I would add here, at this point, that the abolition of the service pension system is otherwise unforgivable without the ability to present any proposals for moral respect for years. The introduction of an insurance system can at least remedy this situation, but we still do not consider it a satisfactory solution. Those who were discharged after 1 January 2012 may, in their case, also be a proposal and a solution, and I would recommend to the Ministry of Interior that they receive at least the service allowance that former pensioners would otherwise receive. It's the least I can do. Speaking of the abolition of service pensions, my colleague Lajos Kósa is unfortunately not in the room, but I wanted to ask him how he would expect people to work until they are 60 years old, such as firefighters who often carry their hoses upstairs and fill their daily lives in incredible smoke, working under these conditions? How to work until they're 60 years old for people who are slaughtering children, people because of road accidents on a daily basis, and experience it on a daily basis? How do those who spend their time, say, in prison, among murderers on a daily basis, work until they are 60 years of age, and should be kept and regulated? The ones who are detectives from the age of 23-24? I'd like to ask him how he'd expect that under these circumstances. Returning to union and interest organisations. I have said that it is unacceptable for us to have the interests of national security services terminated, and that, in the case of law enforcement trade unions, at least the powers required by the Labour Code for other trade unions should be granted. We're going to want to see this in any way. A few more summary reviews. It is clear that this bill further limits the fundamental rights of the stock. It further enhances and renders the control of the stock untied. Makes it even easier to conduct at other places of service. We see that the implementing regulations are not yet ready. As of 1 July 2015, the proposal provides for a one-off high salary increase, but these implementing regulations are not yet in place and therefore the staff's new grade salary is not visible. Anyone whose new grade salary is significantly below the salary that has now been raised may be stuck at this level for a longer period of time. As of 1 July 2015, everyone will be classified as proposed, but until 1 January 2018 they will freeze the advance in the whole staff, even if the waiting period is earlier. Thus, in January 2018, a significant proportion of the stock will move forward at the same time. Otherwise, there will be parliamentary elections in 2018. We've already mentioned a few sentences about the redemption of overtime in cash. I would like to point out that, here, several people have pointed out that, in our view, the position and rank are logically linked by the proposal, but there will be a very absurd consequence: the fact that a member of the professional staff can be placed at a lower level even in the case of movement within the normal organisation, which is completely contrary to the idea and essence of the rank. [[11.20]] It is also a fact that it is striking that the fate of public law enforcement personnel will remain an open issue throughout. All you can see is that the government intends to eliminate this category of stocks. There may also be a number of risks, since if public employees are tried to classify, there may be a significant reduction in salaries for both those with special skills and those without secondary education. As a model for the restructuring of disaster management in 2012, maintenance, cleaning and technical tasks may be reduced and replaced by public workers; and there may also be a government intention behind the inclusion of public service workers in the scope of the Code of Possible Work, as the government announced that in 2016. At the same time, the civil servants' salary bill is currently based on the civil servant's salary base, thus increasing it may also affect civil servants. However, if, in the next period, the status of civil servants ceases to exist in a significant part of the public sector, then they do not need to be given a salary increase, so this is also an interesting point that the situation and fate of civil servants are also an open issue. It is fundamentally exaggerating that employees of law enforcement bodies are also required to have conflict of interest rules for professional workers, and there is a significant tightening of the fact that due to health, psychic and physical inadequacy a member of a professional staff can only be exempted if there is no position available or if it is not accepted for reasonable reasons by the member of the staff. The inclusion of the appropriate cause makes the application of the exemption rules completely subjective. Nor can it be seen exactly what the legal consequences are if a member of a professional staff does not accept the proposed position for an unappreciable reason. In addition, there are still open issues, as I said, the fate of civil servants and the implementing regulations, in any case, should be seen before the final vote. I would like to highlight three of these specifics. One is a point containing the service posts, their classification, the qualification requirements for the post of duty, the methodology and the procedure for carrying out the assessment of the job required for the classification of posts; and the number of professional allowances, the conditions and arrangements for determining eligibility for performance, and the service positions, activities, the conditions and arrangements for the payment of allowances in each service function; and the regulations containing the preferred municipalities. These three implementing regulations are, in any case, necessary to make them known before the final vote. I would like to sum up what has been said so far. Basically, we welcome the fact that after five years of promise, it finally looks like a salary increase can be made, and the law seems to include the necessary guarantees for this. However, we express our absolute disappointment that the bill does not solve anything on the Soviet-type police model inherited from pre-89 times, and rather rather than encourage the staff to think on their own and to solve tasks, this bill seeks to create the conditions for the servile implementation of government instructions. In this spirit, it further limits the fundamental rights of the stock. Congressman Turi-Kovács has rightly mentioned that they are already entering the system with legal restrictions, but I think that, with the promise of a salary increase, no one from the government can feel entitled to spawn pre-limited rights and many obligations with additional restrictions. This is therefore the result: if these restrictive measures remain in the proposal, it will result in a reduction in the professional level of performance of tasks. We are therefore in any case asking you to support the amendments that we are going to make. There is no further objection, no more restriction of expression or further controls - we clearly reject the cut-off of the representation - it is clear that we do not support them, and these are excluded from the proposal. We will support this bill, the fundamental aim of which is also positive and forward-looking in terms of the salary system, in terms of the promotional system, as well as in terms of salary increases, and we will only be able to support it if our amending proposals are adopted. Thank you.
u2015-03-18-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-18-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the Parliament, my fellow Members and the public with great respect. I represented the government in the part of the debate after which the Minister responded to the speeches by the lead speaker. I would no longer do so, but I would like to respond to the comments that followed. First of all, I would like to thank all Members for their contributions, because I believe that the bill on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies is a bill on a historical scale, to which Parliament is now holding a general debate. The aim of the government, the aim of the Ministry of the Interior, is to be able to adopt a law that promotes the objectives set by the government for the submission of the bill, namely: to appreciate professional staff, to increase the attractiveness of the course, thereby improving the public security of Hungary and the Hungarian people, and therefore to thank for this great activity that I have experienced in the debate. Thank you, Mr Péter Ágh, for your support. I would like to respond to some of Mr András Schiffer's statements. The Member said that since 2008, there has been no wage increase in the public sector, not counting this. [[Dr. András Schiffer: For the teachers!]] I would like to remain here, Mr Member - and thank you very much for listening - in the area of law enforcement and in the period after 29 May 2010, when our government took office. I would remind the Member and the House that in 2012 the government provided an additional allowance of HUF 14,000 per month for professional deputy officers, ensigns and flagmen, and as of January 1, 2014, an additional HUF 10 000 per month, i.e. a total of HUF 24,000 for officers and ensigns in all areas of the law enforcement sphere, i.e. police officers, firefighters, law enforcement workers and all law enforcement workers. I would like to put this to the attention of the Member for the sake of accuracy and fairness. I would also like to say - in several of my opposition fellow Members' comments, you raised the issue of service pensions - that it is not possible to restore service pensions. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not what you said in 2010!]] This service pension created a situation for 2010 [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's the way it is right now!]] You may recall, who were members of Parliament then, that there was a shortage of professional bodies, thousands of people left the police, the fire department, which was unsustainable. [[11.30]] The fact that professionals in their late 30s and early 40s are excluded from the organization, when they have the best professional knowledge and professional experience, neither the organization nor the country has been able to endure it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It was autumn 2010.]] Thank you very much, Congressman, I have listened to you, that if you consider yourself a Democrat, if you listen to me, I would be honoured, and I would ask you to do so. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are not disciplined enough!]] With regard to the issue of women on maternity leave, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that this is precisely the solution to the situation that the bill is setting up for the reserve institution. If she comes back on maternity leave, she can have part-time work, her status will obviously remain, because her former job will be returned from the reserve until she returns. So I would like to make it clear that we are pleased that as many women as possible are serving in the professional workforce, we are pleased that as many as possible are having children, we are counting on them for the future in the work, in the service and we are ensuring the legal conditions that allow them to return from maternity leave. I would also like to respond to Béla Turi-Kovács' comment. He asked the question of whose interest it was to reschedule the allowances, to reschedule the bonus scheme, to remove the earlier, close to 30 allowances. I make it clear that it is in the interests of the staff, honourable Member, to abolish this former bonus system, since this new regulation increases the transparency, planning and predictability of the salary system. It is important to point out that these former allowances are not lost, they are incorporated into the salary scheme and the basic guarantee rules for allowances are laid down by law. On the issue of trade union rights, and perhaps also raised by Mr András Schiffer, trade union rights under the new law will indeed belong to trade unions and professional interest representation activities will belong to the Hungarian Law Orders Faculty. It's a clear distribution, a clear distinction. I believe that these clean conditions are also in the interest of professional stock. Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter... [[To Dr. András Schiffer, who consulted with Márta Demeter:]] Congressman, if I may, I would like to speak to the congresswoman, and I respect your back very much, but if you take a seat, it will express your discipline and commitment. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is not an MRK for law enforcement! István Apáti: You too often have your back on us, don't you?]] I'd like to tell you... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-18-24	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking in Parliament has one option, one must use it. [[István Gábor Harangozó: That is why you should have debated Mr Secretary of State and not said a closing word!]] Congressman, I'm warning you. [[Gábor István Bellozó: This is not a residential forum, and he keeps it!]] I'm warning you, and if you don't stop, I'm gonna use the house rules, Congressman. [[Gábor István Bellozó: This is not a residential forum!]] Is that clear? [[Gábor István Bellozó: Clear.]] Thank you very much. [[István Apáti: Guard!]]
u2015-03-18-25	I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that the nexus, which will accompany the preparation of the law with both the bodies of professional interest and the parliamentary parties, will continue in the future. After all, once again, it is in our view that it is in the national interest to adopt a law that increases the attractiveness of the track. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That'll be nice.]] I'm sorry that Congresswoman Agnes Vadai doesn't listen to me, and as a mess, she says yours. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I listen, I can focus on several things at once!]] And you're not listening to my answer. Therefore, progress will not be frozen, honourable Member, because 1 January 2018 is the date of the first pre-prioritisation, because the course of training to be completed is beginning on 1 January 2014. So I would like to say this, and once again, Honourable Parliament, I hope that both today's debate and the amendments to be tabled and the further process of negotiation will contribute to the adoption of a new law on law enforcement professional stock which will also fulfill the expectation shown by professional staff on the part of society; it expresses the recognition that one of the most recognised and accepted professional careers in Hungary today is the police track. I believe that this high level of recognition applies to all parts of the professional law enforcement staff, and I trust that this new law, this new law of service, will also contribute to the further increase of recognition for all of us, contributing to greater security for Hungary and the Hungarian people. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-26	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the draft law on chimney sweeping and amending certain laws relating to fire protection until closure. The submission is made in T/3784. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. I now give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The bill that we are now discussing concerns two fundamental issues. On the one hand, it regulates chimney sweeping services within a new framework and, on the other hand, lays down important detailed rules for the protection of fire. With the preparation of the bill, the government's primary objective is to ensure the long-term smooth provision of chimney sweeping activities for the protection of human life and security of property. In the future, therefore, chimney sweeping tasks in the residential sector will be carried out free of charge by the professional disaster protection body, with less than the current time the property owners will be charged with chimney checks. In the area of chimney sweeping, therefore, the government's policy of reducing overhead is fully achieved, and citizens can use this service free of charge. However, this requires a restructuring of the current public service system. According to the bill, the chimney sweeping service is excluded from the local government's management tasks, as it will be carried out by the State as a public service from the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill puts the chimney sweeping service on a new, more secure basis than at present, by ensuring that, on the basis of uniform regulators and practices, professional disaster protection throughout the country carries out tasks in the residential sector. This eliminates very significant differences in quality, regularity and rates of service in some places for years. The bill at the same time eliminates supply disruptions in the chimney sweeping public service in several counties when, in the absence of the contractual service, a public service of general interest had to be assigned to temporary care. This is why the current system built on the public service institution needs to be adapted in order to be operational. With the adoption of the new standard, the protection of life and property security and the completion of essential tasks are fully fulfilled. When drawing up the bill, the government made sure that the chimney sweeping market outside the retail sector would remain for businesses, which provided the service for properties owned or used by business organisations. In the public sector, therefore, market service providers can continue to carry out chimney sweeping tasks in the context of entrepreneurship. Market enterprises can thus remain operational and maintain their original activities. Real estate-owner citizens will clearly be winners of the new regulation, but the new service system will also benefit chimney sweepers and masters, as their expertise and experience will continue to be needed, and even by dividing the service in two directions, the demand for them will increase, and we hope that this will have a positive impact on the pay indicators. The bill therefore does not result in redundancies, but, on the contrary, strengthens the labour market demand for chimney sweeps. [[11.40]] With the responsibility of the State, the professional disaster protection body also requires the work of the staff required for the provision of assistance and other administrative work in the chimney sweeping industry, in addition to the chimney sweeping skilled workers. The government will thus continue to create jobs for these professionals with the bill, ensuring their livelihood. Ladies and Gentlemen, With the entry into force of the bill, of course, the responsibility of the State will also increase, since in settlements where there is no market operator, chimney checks must also be carried out by the professional disaster protection body in the public sector. With public involvement, chimney checks will be carried out on the basis of more uniform practices than before. It should be pointed out that the bill sets the framework for a new system of chimney sweeping activities, the detailed rules will be laid down in a government and ministerial decree, so that the provisions on the frequency of control will be laid down in a ministerial decree to be issued under the authorisation of the new law, as will the legislation in force. In order to reduce the burden on the owner of the property and to optimise the workload of the inspection body, the monitoring of chimneys in the context of a series of work will be carried out every two years in the case of combustion product discharges connected to gas-powered combustion plants. There will also be a uniform monitoring every two years in cases where the use of carbon monoxide measurement equipment is mandatory, regardless of the type of combustion plant. Mr President, Dear House, Another objective of the bill is to amend the law on fire protection, technical rescue and fire service. The reason for the amendment is, on the one hand, compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation and, on the other, an increase in the level of fire protection. The bill thus integrates the changed EU regulatory procedures into the Hungarian legislation. The purpose of the amendment to the law on fire control is to re-define the concept of fire-fighting technical products in order to ensure that certain construction products do not fall within the definition of fire-fighting technical products. This will remove double regulation for the marketing and installation of construction products, as the conditions for their installation and therefore partly marketing are already laid down in the construction legislation. At the same time, the bill makes a clear distinction between the obligation of business organisations to establish fire protection regulations and the provision of fire protection rules for residential and holiday units. The new provision of the amendment to the law on fire control will lead to mitigation for businesses compared to previous regulations, because in the future, farmers will have to employ fewer persons, service providers or set up separate departments with fire protection qualifications. Ladies and gentlemen, I request your support for the adoption of the bill. I urge you to support the introduction of a free chimney sweeping service for the population and to support stable jobs for workers in the chimney sweeping industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round of these, the keynote speakers will give their speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Miklós Simon. The time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-29	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Over the past few years, there have been a number of problems in the area of chimney sweeping services, especially the problems of incapacity. The primary objective of the bill is to eliminate these supply problems and to ensure consistency between the changed EU and domestic legislation. Several rural settlements look forward to the bill to unite the chimney sweep service within the organisation of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. One of the objectives of the bill on chimney sweeping activities and the amendment of certain laws relating to fire protection is to ensure the long-term smooth provision of chimney sweeping activities, to protect human life and to ensure the security of property. The disturbances in this area cause uncertainty in the supply and result in a risk of fire and/or life. (The chair is occupied by István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament. Erzsébet Schmuck is replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.) The chimney sweeping public service is currently carried out by six public service providers in 309 municipalities in Baranya, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Hajdú-Bihar, Heves and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, in five counties. There is no market service undertaking in these counties, so it can be seen that there are currently areas in the country which are not covered by market chimney sweeping undertakings and therefore, in particular, the current system cannot be maintained in the light of life and damage prevention considerations. These municipalities indicated that the entrusted chimney sweeping service provider could not carry out the necessary tasks and therefore there are disruptions to the supply. These disturbances are detrimental to the legitimate interests of the municipalities because they cannot provide the services they undertake to the general public, so there have been serious risks to life and property security. According to the bill, disaster protection from municipalities would take over the chimney sweeping public service, which would ensure continuous work. As of 1 January 2015, the scope of the chimney sweeping industry's tasks has been extended and new control tasks have been added. For the retail sector, which represents between 80% and 90% of the chimney sweeping market, national coverage of the service can be ensured by a planned 1350 staff of professionals within the framework of disaster management. The aim is for chimney sweepers to be taken over by the new system, i.e. for them, the only thing that would change is that they receive their salary from a different place than before. Our government's intention is to continue to maintain the public's overhead cuts, so the household chimney sweeping supply would be free of charge, so regular and mandatory chimney inspection and cleaning would be free of charge in the future, which would save the population an average of HUF 1 000 to 2 000 per year, and it is important to stress that, thus, those who are in a difficult financial situation will not be burdened with checking and cleaning their chimneys. Thus, the protection of human life and wealth will be better guaranteed in our country in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-30	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the MSZP Group, Ms Anita Heringes, will be here to speak. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor. It's good to hear from the lead speaker at Fidesz that the system isn't sustainable, but at least don't pretend that you're not the reason. You have made laws that unfortunately put chimney sweeps in a position that is difficult for them to maintain their companies today. As a country representative, you know well that in a village, when the chimney sweeper goes sweeping, people have known for decades who the man who goes is, trusts and loves him. The question now is how much you're overshadowing this system. The importance of regular monitoring and maintenance of chimneys and combustion plants in terms of life and property security is unquestioned and therefore chimney sweeping is a mandatory service to be used. [[11.50]] It was right before, so it is now, and so it will be in the future. It is right and should be supported if this mandatory public service is provided free of charge to the public by the State or local authorities. We therefore agree with the freeing of household chimney sweeps. This objective set out in the bill has our full support. However, all indications point to the fact that the real reasons for submitting the proposal are not the provision of free public services, but the expansion of the whole chimney sweeping sector. This also follows directly from the circumstances under which the bill is to be submitted. [[To Dr. Miklós Simon:]] You can swing your head, Congressman, but I'm afraid that's true. Because who believes that with the special tools, expertise, databases and, above all, the lack of professionals, in a few months' time, the disaster management authority will be able to provide this vital public service throughout the country. Although the legislative proposal contains provisions for the transfer of databases, it is very silent about the creation of all the other preconditions. Our questions are therefore: where do they get the tools, instruments and equipment of the billion-dollar magnitude required? What will be the fate of the experts currently working as chimney sweepers? Will they be taken over by disaster management? [[Happy Stephen: Yes, yes!]] If so, under what conditions? Would professional workers, who are currently active in the small industry, even take up employment in a disaster management organisation operating according to the logic of the military hierarchy? After all, even firefighters suffer from the organization set up by the Orbán government, which ignores their professional traditions and is militarised to the point of madness. If chimney sweepers and experienced skilled workers do not continue their work in the new structure, where does disaster management produce a well-trained workforce? My fellow Members, despite looking for answers to these questions, they will not find it in the bill. Not because the authors did not raise these questions when preparing the bill. Obviously not, because they didn't really think that these tasks would actually be carried out by disaster management. Although the provision of the public service will indeed be the responsibility of disaster management under the law, there is little question, given the obvious lack of conditions, that disaster management itself will seek the assistance of other companies for this work. It will hardly surprise you if it turns out that the final beneficiary will be prominent members of some of the companies, the fidesz new aristocracy, who will expect a great profit from this. In the long term, unscrupulous extraction even helps to ensure that the price of the service is not paid directly by the public, but that it will be allocated back by Fidesz' corrupt state machine with taxpayers' money. Plus, this could be the better scenario. [[István Apáti: I object to us! Defiance from Jobbik and Fidesz.]] In the worst case, disaster management will indeed try to carry out this task itself without having the necessary expertise, workforce and equipment at its disposal. The result is a dramatic decline in the quality of service, which in the middle of the heating season will threaten us with severe tragedies. Everyone remembers well, the first, indeed in a lively situation, how, during the national snowfall in March 2013, the new disaster management system failed completely. A similar start-up error could result in a series of tragedies that demand people's lives in January 2016. Moreover, the chimney sweeping work provided by disaster management will not be controlled by anyone, as the fire protection authority itself is disaster management. These fears are further strengthened by the fact that we do not know exactly how disaster management will provide the necessary workforce without sufficient money. In the past, public workers who worked as cleaning workers were fired from a mere saving of money, and instead employed public workers who were working for 47 thousand forints and who had little access to labour law protection. It may even be that you are among the previously fired civil servants who are currently doing the same work in the same building as you did a few years ago, but you are now vulnerable to the former modest civil servant's claim of hunger. This is the most visible example of what Viktor Orbán means by replacing the welfare society with a work-based society. The government vows that this is not the fate for chimney sweeps. He promises that chimney sweeping work will not be carried out by public workers, but by prepared professionals. Everyone should decide for themselves whether to lend any word of the government to the fired civil servants and the corrupted traffickers, the small owners who have been left behind in the land lease applications. In any case, it is more than a bad sign that the current 2013 CXXXIV. Law currently provides for the possibility for public service providers designated to carry out chimney sweeping activities to employ public workers. Today, service providers do not make use of this option, but this can change radically if disaster protection, which has gained a dubious reputation with the practice of public employment, takes over the task entirely. This is particularly dangerous because the pursuit of the chimney sweeping industry requires considerable professional skills, which cannot be attributed to the completion of a few hours of crash course. If disaster management does choose this path, it is not only undermining its professional authority, but also putting Hungarian people in grave danger. The fate of the experts working as chimney sweepers is completely unorganized anyway. Even the government estimates that companies currently operating lose 80-90 percent of the markets by making the provision of household care a task of disaster management. The organisations for the protection of the chimney sweeps have made it clear that the remaining 10-20 percent does not allow any company to survive. Consequently, almost all chimney sweeping companies will probably be destroyed in 2016 and disaster protection will be the provider for all consumers throughout the country. It is therefore a mere fraud that the legislators of the bill pretend to continue to operate by the current service providers. In fact, they will surely be bankrupt, except for those lucky chosen who may be involved in the task of disaster management. However, the bill does not contain any provision to deal with mass bankruptcies, and therefore the future of workers working there is absolutely hopeless. It is not known how companies in liquidation will pay the compensation due to employees, the exemption period allowance, what will be the outcome of the study contracts concluded. We don't even know if they'll be able to work as chimney sweeps in the future. Of course, there is a promise that disaster management will continue to employ chimney sweeps at fallen firms, more precisely, those that are being built by the government. While the attic is full of promises, there is no guarantee of further employment in the proposed bill. As far as administrative and auxiliary staff working for service providers facing bankruptcy are concerned, they are not even promised anything, and they can expect certain unemployment. The issues of transition are not only uneven from the point of view of workers, but, in essence, in all respects. Current service providers have long-term contracts with local authorities for the supply of chimney sweeping services for several years. By the power of the law, these would automatically cease from January 16th. Fidesz completely ignores what will then happen to companies of purely Hungarian property. They weren't even willing to discuss the issues of transition with the chimney sweeps' advocacy organisations. If we didn't know the fate of the former tramp owners who ran the ground during the traffuty, we might as well be surprised by the total insensitivity of the government itself to Hungarian businesses. The same national government, which is not even willing to negotiate with Hungarian businesses, has become noticeably sensitive to multinational companies, has not it? It can also be seen from this that, despite the loud speeches, Fidesz cannot be regarded as party to Hungarian workers or Hungarian entrepreneurs. It represents only the interests of their own economic lunar yards and good partners, qualified multinationals, especially today. There is no misunderstanding, we do not dispute that the State has the right to organise the chimney sweeping service in a different form than the current one, and even in the current situation the need for change is not disputed. It is particularly eligible if one of the aims of the transformation is to ensure that public services are free of charge to the public, but any such transformation must be carried out in compliance with the rule of law and in the light of the legitimate interests of the person concerned. The objectives set out in the bill before us can also be achieved in a fair procedure, fellow Members. However, what the government is doing to chimney sweeps has nothing to do with a fair trial. [[12.00]] Over the last two years, private service providers have been consciously destroyed, and now they simply take away, bleed out companies, and take 90 percent of the market for themselves. Then, after companies have been destroyed and their employees have been let loose, they spread their arms to see how they would have lived out of 10 percent of the previous market. Isn't that an infinitely cynical attitude, my fellow Members? Knowing the activities of the Orbán government so far, this is not likely to be the result of government dilettantism. Obviously, many of the shortcomings of the bill just described are not legislative errors either. It is more likely that this is part of a well-designed plan, which will allow some companies cooperating with disaster protection to pick up billions of taxpayers. The position of the MSZP is clear. Re-regulation of chimney sweeping activities is necessary, but the relevant laws must ensure that free public services are provided to the general public, guaranteeing the full safety of life and property, a decent living for workers in chimney sweeps, a cost-effective service that does not overload the public budget, fair and fair treatment for companies currently operating. Of these fundamental requirements, the bill guarantees only free residential services, but it does not guarantee the safety of life and property, nor the decent livelihood of chimney sweepers, and it creates the conditions for a complete sector of complete expansion, and directs money into the pocket of useful fidesz buddies under the conditions. So, before my fellow members of the Government misinterpret it, the MSZP does not say no to the free public service, but to the new Fidesz attempt to derail and harm taxpayers when it rejects this bill as it currently stands. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-32	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr György Rubovszky, will be present. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to say that the Christian Democratic Group, in conjunction with the position expressed by Mr Simon Miklós, supports the bill and considers it perfectly justified. Under all circumstances, I would like to reject the kind of attack that was made in the previous speech. This is the search for the black sheep that the MSZP is doing, but that's their job, they've been doing it for eight years. There is a Hungarian proverb: who, as he lives, judges. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That was your mentality, that's what they're saying now, because they have experience with that. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Dr. Simon Miklós applauds.]] With all due respect, I would like to draw attention to two things that I do not think have been sufficiently developed in the preparation. One issue is that, in this chimney sweeping activity, it was introduced two years ago that only temporary contracts could be concluded between municipalities and service providers. Yes, but there are problems here that, in the context of a fixed-term relationship, many operators have concluded long-term contracts for their premises, for the provision of conditions in rem, or for something that is now out of place with this bill, with a pen stroke, the burden remains on the neck of the former provider and cannot get rid of it. Under these circumstances, I do not believe that the development of these issues can be the subject of this law, especially because I do not believe that it can be resolved within the framework of amendments to this proposal. Therefore, we would suggest that there should be a supplement to the bill to a separate law on damages arising from early termination of fixed-term contracts, compensation and compensation issues. There is another problem, which has been addressed by Congresswoman Anita Heringes, and this is the question. The activity that service providers are doing now is estimated - and I accept that because I have no other information - to be around 90% of the activity that would fall into the free service area, i.e. residential service. Yes, but these service companies carry out their activities on the basis of contracts with municipalities. I am asking you now, and rightly so, that if this law takes this power away from the municipalities, then these concluded contracts, on the basis of which service providers, for example, provide services corresponding to orders from public authorities, on what basis they will carry out their activities, who will replace the municipality. This has been left out of the legislation, so this issue must be resolved in any way. In relation to this issue, I tabled an amendment that, pending the conclusion of a later settlement, operators continue to carry out under this law the activities previously carried out under contracts with municipalities. With all due respect, I am not saying that the amendments I have tabled are perfect solutions. With regard to both proposals, I would just like to express my intention to draw attention to these amendments. I ask the author to come up with a good solution to this, and then without further ado, this whole bill can be accepted as a round, whole law, which we naturally seek to vote for. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Dr. Simon Miklós applauds.]]
u2015-03-18-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-18-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am pleased with Mr Rubovszky's speech, because he has raised substantive objections here, and indeed there is a lot of things in this law, even what you have said, which I think are a cause for concern and will be unreal. Think about who's free, who's not free. What if, for example, there is an undivided common chimney exit, where, let's say, two of the three owners are free, one is not free, how will these fees be calculated where appropriate. And we can talk about, let's say, what kind of tools this new public body you are going to set up is going to acquire and from, because it has been said here by Congressman Simon where there are problems. But it was not said to give examples again, for example at Borsodi Kéményeszet Kft., where the service provider also ceased, and then the mayor of Miskolc thought that this was an important issue. Of these 300-400 million forints, the minimum is 150-200 million forints, which means the device. How will this instrument be handed over to you, if appropriate? Or throw it in the trash? Because according to the law in force, a public procurement of over HUF 25 million should be issued for assets. That's a question, for example. But they're not the only ones who put money in it. Nearly 200 million forints were added on Solons as well. If we consider that, according to the provisions of the capital city, the compensation that the capital has had to pay has cost about HUF 1.5 billion in the last year alone, then we can talk about them here on an ongoing basis, which will be the same problem. I hope that we will not get to the point where the opposition raises these mysterious, perhaps hidden business interests, and you will get to the point that this, as a national security risk, will also be encrypted, and a law will be passed to ensure that terrorists do not accidentally find out how to sweep chimneys here. And I see you're laughing at Anita Beringes. [[12.10]] I also hope that when this encryption is brought in, we won't end up like Paks II, saying that Heringes Anita doesn't press a button, and that she helps you to encrypt Paks II, even though she's president of Paks. [[At least don't twist me, Congressman. Shame!]] So much for history, maybe. All we've heard is once again that you put this whole bill in a nice package, because that's not really what this law is all about, is free talk, protection of human life, fire protection and everything else that's really connected to this law. We could also argue about how free it would be. There's no such thing as free! Of course, for the public, in principle, now you're saying you don't have to pay. Of course you have to pay. We're all gonna pay for this, so we're all gonna have to run it on public money, we're all gonna have money in it, and we're gonna pay for it the same way. It is also true that there have been problems with chimney sweeping activities over the past period, and there have been problems with this for a long time. And let us not forget that you have greatly contributed to the lack of care by not doing any impact assessment in reducing the costs, not looking at the situation in this sector, but simply putting them in a situation that is almost impossible, so that you are largely responsible for the situation at the moment. We can see the bill before us in relation to the chimney sweeping industry as another step in a relatively longer process, but by studying the draft, we can also conclude that we are not yet at the end of this process. There are a number of provisions in the proposal which can be described as immature without exaggeration. It seems, therefore, that the government has not had enough time in the last nearly three years to give a well-thought-out legal background to this field of activity, the weight of which does not need to be described in particular, it is enough to think of the unfortunate deaths of carbon monoxide poisoning that are regularly returning each year. The Jobbik-Hungary Movement has already paid consistent attention to the renewal of the chimney sweeping service, and the need for this has been sufficiently felt by mass complaints from the general public, mainly due to the legitimate observation that the individual service providers, acting as criminal authorities, have, in many cases in the absence of real work, smeared the population, often requiring mandatory tasks to be carried out by business-related industrialists at a price of pepper. Before anyone asks me to take account of the specifics, I must point out that, contrary to the government's practice on legislation, according to which opposition amendment proposals should be submitted in any area, Jobbik has achieved serious, particularly public-friendly results, for example, in the Capital Assembly. There, our proposals were taken into account. In the course of the amendment of the regulation on chimney sweeping services, our proposals for written notification and for sanctioning service providers in the event of non-public service were incorporated. So it is no exaggeration to say that the decisive action of Jobbik, as in so many other cases, has led you to take action in this area as well. In this respect, therefore, we welcome their determination and also their harsh criticism of themselves. After all, let us not forget that the Minister of the Interior is T/7029 on the chimney sweeping public service. 2012 p.o.b. On 11 October V, he presented his bill on the same subject as the present one, which was proposed in Article 28. It shall also expire in its entirety within the meaning of paragraph 4 of Article 4. We sincerely hope that, if the proposal, which includes the fundamental provision before us, is adopted, it will prove more permanent and will not provide the necessary frameworks for a short period of three years. This would be necessary only because the whole population is essentially affected by this issue. After a comprehensive look out, please allow me to highlight, with a few cases, and I would like to emphasise that I should only highlight in an exemplary manner, as I do not have the time to raise all the problems that are involved in the bill, to highlight the critical points that put the said durability and, in some cases, in my opinion, enforceability itself in jeopardy. One of these is immediately designated by the government as a chimney sweeping industry. Obviously, you are not surprised that, based on the historical practice of the Orbán governments, both the opposition and the general public are critical of the idea of a public service provider designated by the government, since we have tasted what it was like to be first nationalised and then put into concrete or quasi-concession. I am thinking primarily about trade and casino concessions, but ultimately also about applications for land leases. There was only one common denominator in all areas, that a feudal circle, which you have described as feudal relations, was in the position. I sincerely fear that it will be no different now that you will not want to exercise restraint this time. What is happening is that the current powers of the local government in relation to the chimney sweep are transferred to the state by a single stroke of the pen, for which the government designates a chimney sweeping body with the same feather stroke. We have serious doubts that the role of so many chimney sweeping businesses will be taken over by a single public body designated by the government at some point in time by means of a decree. That's because you're constantly referring to disaster management. If we say that the current system - and there have been a lot of problems with this system - has functioned badly, this system has been supervised by disaster management. If disaster management has supervised chimney sweepers so far, how will disaster management be able to do so now, if it has already supervised a malfunctioning system and has not done anything about it, how will it be able to solve this problem itself? And the question arises, doesn't it, who will be overseeing disaster control from here on out? Will he be supervising himself in the provision of chimney sweeping services? That's gonna cause a pretty nasty situation. I don't know if you guys have any idea that this might be incompatible, that you'd be consulted, that you'd be supervising yourself. They will apparently have easier things to do by selling the transaction to the public, as I have already said, because, as it is written, they want to make public services free of charge for the public. At the same time, it does not require too much logic to see that the price of this service, this chimney sweeping dog, will also be paid by taxpayers in the form of various taxes, the appearance of which is entrusted only and solely to your imagination. We have also seen that when it comes to imposing taxes and charges, they do not suffer from a lack of imagination. But we've heard it from you, and I suppose you'll say that the Jobbik is here; that, for example, I don't want to give you ideas, just so you don't come forward, let's say, what I know, with the idea of a smoke tax in the coming period, they'll say that we're alarming you. Well, they said the same thing about the land, it was said in this House that the land will never be taxed as long as the Fidesz government is here. At the moment, the land is being taxed all over Hungary - and you are doing nothing about it. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. János Pócs: Don't lie!]] And you won't do anything about it! In fact, they are not ashamed that they have lied in this House, but they are proud to do so from now on. At the same time, the free use of the service will not be uniform, as it will continue to be paid by the person whose apartment is also the seat, establishment and branch of his own company. The discrimination is specific, and I would obviously not draw attention here to the situation of the defiant and, where appropriate, tax avoidance, but to the hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who have become, not out of their free will, not in good spirits, forced entrepreneurs in recent years. The regulation, according to the draft, focuses on their situation with a negative sign. But then - now Mr Rubovszky is not in, because I was thinking about these legal things - what about individuals with foreign citizenship who have an apartment in Hungary? Will it be free for them, too? Will the Hungarian taxpayers also pay for this service to these people? Or what about those undivided joint-owned chimneys where, as I said, some people get them free of charge, some people have to pay for this thing. These are very important questions, I think. [[12.20]] However, this is not the only point of concern. The general enforceability of the legislation is called into question by the provision that, in the case of real estate in the condominium and housing cooperative, the joint representative of the condominium and the chairman of the housing cooperative shall declare the ownership of the separate property. It is not difficult to see that, where appropriate, in the case of a condo with dozens of flats, the provision puts joint representatives in an almost impossible position. Not to mention that neither law nor any other legal provision provides that the owners of the condominium have an obligation to notify the change of ownership. Such an obligation existed until 1 January 2004 under the Law on the former condominium. The current legislation on condominiums states that the organisational and operational regulations may require the partner to notify the joint representative of the change of ownership in respect of his or her separate property. But what happens if the organisational and operational regulations of a condominium do not provide for such notification? Or does it actually provide for the obligation to notify, but are the owners not acting according to the organisational and operational regulations? In other words, you will do nothing but base yourself on the possible availability of and full compliance with a statutory regulation of a board of directors and operating regulations. Surprising, layman's attitude and irresponsibleness, given the fact that they have been governing for nearly five years now and that their previous regulation on the subject has not reached three years. At the same time, the draft does not interrupt, for example, the regulation or bad practice aimed at fully resolving conflicts of interest between the chimney sweeping body or the chimney sweeping service provider and chimney sweeping undertakings. It is stated that a company which is majority owned by a person who is employed by a chimney sweeping body or a chimney sweeping service provider is not allowed to participate in a chimney sweeping undertaking operating in that area. The justification of the law currently in force also states that such a conflicting state would lead to the fact that, at the time of the public service mission, it could qualify its own work for the service provider, and it would not be possible to exclude the generation of unjustified work. If that's the case, and it's obvious that it is, then I'm asking why we're only banning majority ownership. Can 49 percent of the property be tolerated to qualify for its own work, perhaps for its own benefit, and, I add, generate unjustified work at the expense of the property owner? This kind of conflict of interest should therefore be banned fundamentally and comprehensively, because this option is indeed a direct threat to human life and property security, the protection of which, at least according to the preamble, would be one of the main objectives of the law. The lack of consideration and contradiction of the draft legislation could be considered for a long time. I've really only listed so far as to be exemplary. I do not want to ignore the unwritten rules for conducting the general debate, but I will deal with the amendments to the bill on fire protection, technical backup and fire brigade in another speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, came to the floor. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to say that "Maybe Other" Politics is a committed believer in reducing costs, just not what the Fidesz is doing, because obviously we can't call it that. This can be called a price reduction and the destruction of service providers, but not in any case a reduction in the overhead. The overhead would be reduced if we could reduce the amount of use. This would be the only safe solution, and that would be a solution in these efforts in the long term. We have been consistent - we have not been able to support the MSZP proposal this week - because we can support anything that reduces the burden on the population along with the decrease in consumption. This would be seen as a long-term solution, because this would not only reduce the burden on the population but also reduce emissions and related energy production. The type of reduction in overhead costs that only reduces prices does not contribute to people's desire to consume less, because they can actually achieve something extra by reducing prices. It was important to record this at the beginning of my speech because it is not about not agreeing with the basic goals, but at the same time my party's view is that what the government has done with the chimney sweeping service and these businesses is not only undeserving to businesses, but it is practically a waste, because they decide to destroy businesses as the government's own interests are best, and they do not deal with the fact that Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, are being destroyed in this and they cannot find a better solution. The visible aim of the bill is to nationalise the chimney sweep service. In this way, the Orbán government is trying to address a problem rather than solve it by creating more problems. The process began, of course, not now, but earlier, with the artificial suppression of the service fee. The aim of trying to bring the overhead costs into line with incomes could be supported by the LMP. The reason we've had problems from the beginning with the kind of overhead cuts Fidesz introduced is because it's the same as their one-key tax, that those who consume a lot, use a lot, help those who use a little bit of it, help a little bit. The main benefit is not where it would be needed most, but the model of a single-key tax, virtually those who have a lot of real estate, or possibly larger assets, will benefit much better from it. That's the problem. This is why it is difficult for us to accept that this is in the interests of the population in any way. The interests of the population would obviously be served by a system in which those in need receive much help, those who do not need it, and those who do not need it, because they do not need it. We pay security in the chimney sweeping fee, which means that the price below the cost, which does not allow the control to be carried out with care, is also a risk and danger. This is a theoretical consequence, as the government did not expect that there were practical consequences. Most of the chimney sweeping in Hungary is carried out by local government companies or small businesses, more precisely, because most of them are impossible as a result of the unthinkable reduction in fees. In the explanatory statement of this bill, the government also acknowledges that there are whole counties where chimney sweeping services are virtually no longer operational. The government is now trying to address this problem by deploying public services designated by disaster management and by drastically reducing professional standards. It was very instructive for me to listen to the lectures, because Dr. Miklós Simon, as the lead speaker, used forms of speech that were given a lot of problems. Please, it's not God who created this problem, and it's not nature, it's the Fidesz government's previous actions. That would have been accurate by making a lot of problems in this system. He said that the smooth functioning of the system and the uncertainty about the maintenance of services cannot be maintained. Of course not. You're the ones who ruined it. It cannot be maintained because it has created regulatory conditions that cannot be maintained. At least to the point that if you say such things in a keynote speech, you are not referring to an unknown supernatural phenomenon, that there have been many problems and that the smooth operation is not ensured - all this is the result of these previous regulations! They have a direct interaction with the situation that we now face and that we have to deal with in the legislative process. The scale of the series of measures so far is an outrage. We managed to destroy a service that had previously been operating on a market basis, which was relatively normal, to bleed out a lot of businesses, to unemployed workers who had previously worked as chimney sweepers and had the appropriate professional skills. They'd be the hardworking little people the government's supposedly been working for since the Prime Minister's last announcement. How many apartments may burn down, how many people may get carbon monoxide poisoning due to lack of control or inadequate implementation, we do not know, but it may not hurt to remind them that chimney sweeping is not just a toy, and it is not just a button touching the chimney sweep, but it is indeed about the safety of our lives and property. This security is now left in the hands of the government to people whom it only expects in the codified version of the legislation not to be prohibited from engaging in activities in the chimney sweeping industry and not to have a criminal record. That's what the codified text says, which means that from here on out, practically any pastry chef, baker, waitress can be a chimney sweeper. From this point on, virtually eight public workers with general qualifications can be set up. This is what the government wants to do to create professionalism. These two conditions are contained in the codified text, and it is a pity to have a debate on this, because what we have before us is not for professionalism, nor for professional service, but for an emergency situation for which any pastry chef or baker can apply, because the legislation gives us the opportunity to do so. The reasons why I do not sympathize with this proposal are the anti-business stages where, for example, in homes to which any small enterprise is registered, control will be much more expensive in the future, but the same unjustified discrimination applies to homes where, say, a civil society organisation, foundation or association is registered. [[12.30]] I don't know, any questions we ask the representatives of the government here, we keep hearing from them that they are coming to SMEs on the Canaan, practically everything will be for small businesses. Meanwhile, they are placing burdens on small businesses that no one else has. Obviously, it can be done by thinking in Pest, because people in Pest see that there are seat providers in the capital - we can't find them in rural settlements - and there are 60 and 100 companies registered with a head office provider. So they all have their headquarters in one place, and then this doesn't come up. But in rural areas, the self-employed, who are a good part, let's face it, are self-employed, has no other establishment, has no other place of business, even lives there, are in no way correct to impose extra burdens and are in no way in line with what the members of the government say about small and medium-sized enterprises. In the same way, I think it's just as impertinent to punish associations and foundations who have no way of having their own headquarters or premises. Obviously, if we assume that the Fidesz Party Foundation has a way of doing this, then there's no problem. But if you look at how many associations and foundations there are, where an enthusiastic private person is trying to do something without public funds, merely undertake something to do for the public, perform a public task that is not or is poorly provided, it is in no way correct to impose such extra burdens, and it is not in line with what the government is constantly promising. The chimney sweeping sector should not be destroyed, dissipated, but developed, in accordance with the requirements of the age. It is no longer enough to measure oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, but PM10 pollution, and even the toxins that come into the air from illegal public waste burning, are not equipped to do so. We fear that, in addition to current prices, the remaining service providers will not invest in such a thing. This is a very important point, because I have had the opportunity, in practice, to talk about the increasing presence of illegal incineration of waste in small regions as a result of poverty. Some of the municipal waste goes into mixed-fired stoves. It's simply a fact, it's a waste of debate. We don't have any institutional system that can measure that. We don't have a system of institutions that would give us the opportunity to filter that out. Practically without further ado, near a kindergarten where the children are in the yard, it is possible to poison the air by burning PET bottles. It may not be taken seriously, it can be said that poor people can burn what they want, but this is not a long-term solution. However, long-term solutions are needed in these services. My apologies for not knowing whose quote it is or where it comes from, that it is the politician who thinks for four years - the reduction of the rent - and the statesman who thinks for the next generation. This thinking, which creates these services, that we will release thousand-forint fees on an annual basis, is obviously good for any campaigning, but it is not suitable for us to think responsibly. I have to say, we are also obviously interested in what the people in this sector think. We have dealt with the position of Tibor Huszár and Tibor Leikauf, President of the National Industry Panel of the Hungarian Chimney Sweeps, and President of the Association of Hungarian Chimney Sweep Masters. Because I don't think it would be a shame even for Fidesz to ask professionals. Here is the resolution that you may have received. It says:. The reason for the disturbances in the chimney-supplier public service over the past nearly two years was clearly the disproportionate reduction in the costs of public service providers, resulting in a loss of almost 50 per cent of turnover. That's practically what we were talking about. A functioning sector, a functioning system, with this artificial regulation, this violent regulation was used to try to destroy me. Clearly, if that was the government's goal, or if its sole purpose, was to nationalise everything, this would have been a fair solution. Sitting down on the first day, negotiating with the service providers, telling them that these terms and conditions, we are negotiating the takeover of the assets, the takeover of the employees. But it doesn't go according to these fair rules of the game, destroying them, making them economically impossible - and when they're ruined, disaster control comes and saves their country. A public, 8 municipal and 38 exclusively Hungarian-owned enterprises, with contractual relations with the municipalities responsible for the supply, are able to continuously and smoothly provide the free residential service with the means available to them from 1 January 2016 in a non-profit-making manner, with lower budget expenditure than the amounts intended for public compensation for disaster protection and with a minimum level of safety unchanged. Which means that if we can believe experts, who are otherwise confirmed by the Daily Economy article, which says that disaster control is calculated to cost between 6.5 and 7 billion in the provision of chimney sweeping services, then we need to look at what is responsible for managing public assets. If there is someone who offers that he will provide it cheaper and better with the existing systems without lowering standards, then I do not understand why a responsible government is not going in this direction. Obviously, if we go through these opinions, you can see the same everywhere. The results of the reduction in overhead services have made it impossible, and in the interests of the nearly 300-year-old Hungarian chimney sweeping industry, we need to rethink the bill based on rational, objective data, which would make it possible for the service not to endanger human life, endanger wealth and achieve the goal of making it easier and better for people. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-18-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. István Szilárd Németh, Member of the Fidesz Group, announced his intention to speak in writing. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, In most of the previous speakers, I didn't quite understand what you were trying to say. They put cricket bugs together, Tolna-Baranya, just because they're afraid of the whole reduction of the rent, like devils of incense smoke. Yesterday, I experienced the same thing when we amended the Gas Supply Act. They're talking about something else, they're alarming everyone that things are gonna get a lot worse, people are gonna pay a lot more because this service is gonna be free. They're paying a lot more for gas right now because it's down by 26,5 percent. The figures work by costing $113 forints instead of 150 forints a cubic meter of gas. But people are gonna pay for this. So, I don't think it's worth talking about, and you don't have to be so afraid of reducing the rent. I think we need to support the reduction of the rent. To say, dear Congressman, from here, from the LMP, that the market must be competed, and whoever will work cheaper will take it away - that is what we have done! That's why they don't want to work. That's why today there are no services in six counties, 309 settlements where chimney sweeps work very cheaply do not want to work. They don't work because it's not worth it. It was worth it so far, it's not worth it right now. So, the thing is, the story's backwards. This will make the service much cheaper compared to what has been paid so far. What happened, didn't it? In 2012, the Law on Chimney Sweep was passed, which was passed by the people who came out. They put it all in there. By the way, the European Union's regulation, a modern environment, was in line with everything, but one thing was forgotten: to see what it would cost the Hungarian people. And when we decided to cut back on the gas, electricity and district heating, we said that there were still some bills here, which may not affect big companies or big multinationals, but there's still the bottled gas, there's the chimney sweep, garbage disposal, sewer cleaning, water supply and so on - and that's when it turns out there's a big problem. In the country, in 19 counties, if I know the numbers, almost 60 such service providers, 54 public service providers performed this task, using 54 technical solutions, using 54 price formulas, and, if you will, 54 ways, respect for the exception, because there was a very decent company as well, but smearing people. When we started the reduction of the rent and waited for people to join in this consumer battle between public services and consumers, and for the benefit of consumers, for the benefit of Hungarian people and Hungarian consumers, I received letters, and for my hours of reception, people brought information about chimney sweep that my ears were split: the money was collected, but they hadn't seen a chimney sweep for years. That was one of the most delicious versions of the story. [[12.40]] Yeah, and you didn't have to go to the country, so that affected the big cities. [[Anita Beringes: Don't go, Congressman.]] And, by the way, I would be happy to share with Congresswoman Anita Heringes, if you're interested in this story. So they simply didn't want to make the reduction. 'Cause if the rent cut was 10 percent, people wouldn't have been so good. You're the ones who challenged it. In these very benches, it was said that this reduction of the rent was a hoax. If it had stayed that way, it would have been that way with the chimney sweep. After that, we had to find a way to cut the costs across the country, because at first there were huge price increases, and if we had let go of 10 percent, obviously people wouldn't have gotten it. That is why, among other things, the hourly rate was halved, so we said that it was not HUF 4000, but only HUF 2000 at most. For example, in Budapest the retail price of chimney sweep decreased by 44 percent. Once again, I would like to emphasise that we are solving the problem with this bill. From the Secretary of State said the protection of human life, the security of property, the prevention of damage, the preservation of jobs, i.e. the acceptance of chimney sweeps, compliance with EU and domestic legislative amendments, modernisation; everything they have said is in this law. This law gives you the opportunity. It allows for this otherwise binding market, because it is a mandatory public service. It's easy to fight like that. Everyone's got to do this. Everyone's supposed to pay the money. It's easy to say this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and this, and you can add, and you'll pay for it well. That's exactly what we stopped him from doing. Making it free is the most important thing in this matter. I think that, in addition to the fact that the First National Public Service Provider is now being established in the gas area, later in the area of electricity and district heating, this is one of the most important messages of the Hungarian Government, and if we are to accept it in Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament will have a reduction in the rent. In fact, this is how we will protect Hungarian families, Hungarian households and Hungarian consumers. So I propose and ask everyone to support this bill, and with their votes, please accept it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-18-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have the speeches announced in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-18-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, During yesterday's debate on the law on gas supply, when the reduction of the rent was mentioned in the Fidesz submission speech, I was able to confirm, in concrete terms, with literal quotes, that during 2010 and 11 Jobbik first formulated proposals in the Parliament on the reduction of bills. There wasn't even a word out there that said "cheap reduction." Prime Minister Viktor Orbán took notes at the time when I told him that, and apparently he took these advices, did the reduction of the rent, if not in the way we wanted it, not with the determination, but with the government, that is without a doubt. But what happened in these cases? During yesterday, I was able to confirm with specific literal quotes from the European Union's statistical office that the reduction in the rent was achieved, for example, in the area of natural gas, when the government first raised the price. While there was a 7 per cent increase in gas prices in Europe, in Hungary there was a 19 per cent increase in gas prices, and of course the government achieved a reduction in gas prices. So, in fact, we were talking about raising prices for the first time. And why do my colleagues, my colleague György Szilágyi, have concerns about this bill, for example, who has torn this professional proposal apart? Because, fellow Members, we have seen exactly the same justifications for other legislative proposals before, and unfortunately we have a sad experience with such legislative proposals. So far, the government has said in every single case why they're hurting this bill, what's the problem with that, look at it, it's a completely harmless thing, how good it's gonna be for people. And then what did we see in the process of reducing the cost of gas? We have seen that district heating companies are compensated with taxpayers' money by the government, with between HUF 50 and 60 billion a year due to their losses from the reduction of the rent. What's happening? On the one hand, service providers are obliged to write on the bill of account how much people's accounts have fallen, and on the other hand they compensate companies for the losses they have suffered with the money collected from taxpayers. I'm asking you, is this reduction of the rent really moving the country forward? I understand that the rent is falling, but on the other side, the tax is increasing much more. If you look at how much tax we are paying now and how much we paid in 2010, tax revenues have significantly increased. They've jumped substantially! There's been a huge tax withdrawal in this country. Unfortunately, this will result in a reduction in the cost of the rent. To give an example of how what worked, think that the possibility of gambling for small businesses has been abolished by the government. What was the justification? Don't let the one-armed robber swallow people's money so people don't throw money in places like this. Can you agree with that? Sure. Of course. I don't want the one-armed robber to swallow people's money either. Then what did we see? Andy Vajna and a related gentleman, two of them own all the casino concessions in Hungary. What happened? This opportunity has been taken away from small businesses by the government, and it has been allocated to its own large entrepreneur, already billionaire friends. Question: Can one-armed robber currently operate in Hungary? Sure. It's just not a small contractor right now. [[Lajos Korózs: It's called a government!]] He's running it. His name is Andy Vajna. The Fidesz friends got the money, the Fidesz friends got the business opportunity, the government put them in the position with these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I'm talking about. Even then, we warned that the law that the government made on gambling was a temporary state. With this law, we warn that this law is also a temporary state, because now small businesses are taking away the opportunity to make a living from chimney sweeps. Trust me, these aren't rich businesses. We didn't get to know billionaire entrepreneurs as chimney sweepers, but people who work for themselves or employ one or two people or up to a dozen people, and with hard work, they really do meet the expectations of this activity, and compared to that, there's going to be such a short-term nationalization when they temporarily take out the possibility of chimney sweeping from these people's hands, and then the Fidesz buddies come back. Compared to the casino case we just mentioned, the traff case showed exactly the same thing. In the trade-off case, too, the government has removed the commercial right of tobacco products from small businesses, from people who have been making their living for decades - now the same thing has happened to small chimney sweepers who have been living for decades - and has allocated trade opportunities for tobacco products and tobacco products to those who have won concessions. Look at the maps now, they're available online, the country's full of Fidesz-related individuals, politicians, big businessmen [[Happy István: With Jobbikos!]] Those who skimmed the entire tobacco market because the government assigned this opportunity to them. The same is the case when the government puts the CBA, for example, by means of public authorities, by tailoring taxation, by killing its competitors by means of tax policy. It's happening right in front of us. These are steps when we can see, at this very moment in this plenary, in this debate, taking away the market for chimney sweeps and the livelihoods of chimney sweepers. And in a short time, he will be in a large public organization, where in a year's time, in six months' time, who knows how long the entrepreneurs will be able to wait for, they will distribute the concession opportunities. Then large regional chimney sweeping companies will be formed, about whom the government spokesperson will say - then Szilárd Németh will no longer be in place, at least not in this role - how much better a system has been set up, how much better it will work, more security, how much more organized everything will be. There's nothing more to do than loot a few thousand entrepreneurs in this country. That's what the Jobbik won't assist with. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[12.50]]
u2015-03-18-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group.
u2015-03-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, apparently did not cope with understanding what we are saying, and apparently it was difficult for him to understand. I wanted to give it to him, and I have some of it in writing, see if he understands what we're talking about, because it's a complete bullshit that he's fighting back here. It comes with a reduction in overhead costs, a reduction in overhead costs, and this obviously wins votes, but it's actually about deceiving people. He says he didn't understand what we were trying to say. It is very simple: we said that if something is made free, for example, if there is a civil society association or a foundation, it should not have to pay any more, because it is not a private house. We told them not to discriminate against small businesses. The Commissioner has not responded to this, so he has not dealt with this. Instead, he told me that the chimney sweeps didn't want to work, because they're all lazy people who don't want to work through counties. I would be very curious to hear from the Commissioner that if he had to come to work every morning with two big slaps, he would have to pay a ten grand in the common register and work on how long the motivation would last. Such conditions have been created for these public services. And you're surprised they can't provide the service? Obviously, you can't be surprised. You can say the problem was self-inflicted, but I think it's a lie. Obviously, your legislative background has created this situation. You can blame Gyula Horn and the Communists and anyone else, but obviously you didn't sign up for that cursed eight years, but the problem is now, the service has collapsed. And that's because this regulation has resulted in this. It's the law of direct cause and effect. I'm gonna make a bad regulation, then it's gonna have an effect. The result is that the service providers have been destroyed. And there's also the Commissioner with this free service. My colleague Volner perfectly explained what I have written here for myself. Of course you can do a free service. If we maintain the highest VAT in Europe and the employer's burden is the highest in Europe, then money can obviously be collected. This is how you can give a thousand forints a year and two thousand forints of service for free. Let's give the people the money back. Reduce employers' contributions, reduce labour costs, give people the money, and then they can pay their thousand or two thousand forints a year. It would be that simple. Not to mention the fact that the Commissioner is accusing us of alerting the population to Jobbik, that we are not alarming the people with Jobbik, but Jobbik is threatening the population, and we are alarming the population that there is a disaster. Technically, we don't scare him. Who creates such organizations as disaster control? Well, you're the ones who always want to protect everything. They protect Hungarian brandy, protect the acacia. They're in a continuous latent war, constantly, permanently fighting something and always protecting people. They do it like the presidents of America, when they attack some little goatherder people to improve their polling results, you always protect someone. We've got disaster control coming in and protecting society. Of course you will, because you have to protect society from you, the only problem is that you control disaster control. This is what society would need, but the Commissioner is no longer here to interpret it, even though I would have tried to say it in a way that he could understand. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2015-03-18-45	Thank you very much. I am very sorry, too, that Commissioner, after his speech, ran out of the room. Obviously, it is his duty to protect the reduction of the rent even when we already see in this law that he has caused a lot of problems. You don't understand what we're saying, do you? I suppose if you'd read the law, and not just the prep material you had in your hands, you probably would have understood better what we were suggesting. He says that chimney sweepers don't want to work, and that people don't like chimney sweeps, and that doesn't mean going to the country. I can tell our colleague, Szilárd Németh, that he should not go to the countryside, because he will eventually meet the Hungarian reality. Because in the countryside, the chimney sweeps are still respected, and they are still familiar with chimney sweeps, because for 20-25 years, the same chimney sweeps go into villages, and people love them when they come, trust them, and as traditions live there, they also consider them to be good luck. So we are very happy to sit down with our fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, and we will explain what is in this law, if you have failed to read it, you have failed to understand this law. And I would like to respond to Jobbik that you have agreed to the adoption of the two-thirds law, and I would like to congratulate you deeply on that. [[György Szilágyi: Which two-thirds?]] I hope that people in Tapolca will appreciate how much you and Fides are involved. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, there's a general debate on a bill, and I'd like to ask you to hold the election campaign elsewhere. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the two-minute speeches, and I will give the floor to Mr István Happy, Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-18-47	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is my duty to say that I think that Szilárd Németh left because he had to go to a committee meeting. This was indicated here, even if you didn't hear that the defense committee meeting had just begun, and you had to go this way. That's why he can't answer to you. But I have no obligation to protect you. However, I would like to say a few things about what you said. My colleague Sallai, the thing is, I think we're from the same neighborhood. There, in our area, the chimney sweep fee was not a thousand forints a year, don't be angry; it was over 4,000 forints a half-year. So if I count correctly, it's not a thousand forints a year that people save. I live there, and as far as I know, people are poor, and a lot of people don't let chimney sweeps in. The reason why they won't let you in is because they're spending more than 4,000 forints. I think that making this service free will give much more security to the people they work for. After all, now they are probably allowed in by those who have not let the chimney sweeps in so far and can also investigate in their houses. The chimney sweeps will also be much safer, who have traveled the streets with 200 to 300 thousand forints a day when they collected the prizes, and they have always been exposed to the possibility of being robbed. So I ask you to support this bill for the sake of chimney sweeps and for the benefit of the Hungarian people, this is good for both organisations. Good for chimney sweeps, a secure job, security, and good for the Hungarian people, who also have reduced their overhead costs, do not have to pay for a service for which thousands of forints have been paid annually. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2015-03-18-49	Thank you very much. I just wanted to respond to the speech by my fellow Member, István Happy. I admit everything, so you're very much right about what you're obviously saying. But I didn't say that it shouldn't be free, I said that, let's say, civil society organisations or individual businesses who are registered for it shouldn't have to pay extra. That's one of the important things. And the other thing is, he can be free of me and he can govern the governing party any way he wants. You have been given an honorably high mandate from the Hungarian society, but there are many ways to make a service free. It's possible to keep the businesses. If a service is to be compensated because it is loss-making, the State can grant compensation without having to create a new organisation, who needs to buy new machinery, hire new equipment, hire new people. But if you say that we're going to take over, then it's possible that at this stage, which was section 13, 15, where you practically define who can work here, and where, do you remember that I told you that practically any baker and pastry chef can go, it should be recorded in this section that you worked in previous businesses, you have expertise and at least five years of professional experience - because then we believe that they will take over. So I am not arguing in the end, but in the instrument and in the implementation, as it has been brought up in the codified text. By the way, obviously, as I said, I agree with the rest. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. I now give the floor to Members who have applied in the normal time frame; first, to Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-18-51	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Happy Congressman, I understand that you may say that you have gone to a committee meeting. Then we should do these things in such a way that there is no committee meeting, let's say, during Parliament's meeting. You have the opportunity, you make up these rules, Commissioner, you could be here. He could be here only because he's gone, so you feel like you don't want our opinion; you don't have to, because he has the Philosopher's Stone, he's the Rehearsal Rider, and he's telling us things that come down to us; because he said here where the chimney sweep is today, what problems are. He just forgets that his incompetence has contributed to the fact that there are such problems at the moment. [[13.00]] And how did you prove your incompetence? Like what you said here. What did Szilárd Németh say? He cried that they were going to see him in the host hour, and they were telling him that these people were here, and that there were scandals, that they paid, but they didn't see any chimney sweeps. Well, if you knew the operation of this system, Szilárd Németh, you wouldn't say such nonsense. I mean, how does it happen? The chimney sweep will show up in person, they'll pay him there, and you'll have to sign the paper that they've done it. It can't be that someone pays and sees no chimney sweeps, because the system rules that out. That's how well Szilárd Németh was able to do it. But, by the way, he pointed out one of the problems. To the problem of the way chimney sweeping companies have operated so far, they forced workers to do so because a certain wage was the basic wage and the rest were paid in terms of performance wages, how much money they were collecting from the population. So this meant that these people were not directed towards quality work, but towards performance rental, so it happened in a lot of cases, we also know that the chimney sweeper went out, looked at the chimney outside, and then took the money, and everything was fine with a password. That should be changed. Then there is another thing: Here, Mr Németh highlighted the preservation of jobs, but he did not say one sentence about workers. I suppose the Fidesz communication strategies will stab you, by the way, because you've missed the opportunity you've been talking about since you didn't talk about the hard-working little people. Because actually, by the way, chimney sweeps are the hardworking little people, but they haven't said a word about them yet - because what happens to the workers here? What about the 1850 chimney sweeps that are in the country right now? Are you going to take these people? Because no one said anything about it. What kind of wages are they gonna take these people for? What kind of contract are they gonna take over these people with? How vulnerable will these people be when they become a company where they can be stationed as chimney sweepers? When they tell you you're gonna do this job for this, or you're gonna go someplace else. But he can't go anywhere else if he likes his profession, and these people love their profession, most of them do it because of this job, by the way, it's impossible for some politicians to rule here. They don't care about these people at all, they don't talk about them. I am trying to highlight that at least Mr Happy Member might tell Szilárd Németh where this whole profession is. It's there, and we can go back to the point where these people are just as vulnerable in a lot of places in the country as, say, paramedics, cops, or anyone else. What exactly is causing this danger? The danger is that the Horn government has abolished these people's status as a public servant. So they don't even have this protection, and they keep going around the country. The other is what kind of benefits they get. However, you could look at the benefits they receive and create a salary for these people that is linked to their work, not to performance, but to quality. The other is whether or not these people are equipped with appropriate material tools. I'll give you just a few examples so you don't have any problems with the people I'm talking about, so I won't even mention the county where you were. He gave me a county where 50-60 chimney sweeps perform this service. There's a set of physical conditions for disaster management, for whom you're going to want to direct this whole service, to be verified. These conditions include the fact that each chimney sweep must have a ball rope. This balled rope is a pretty important tool for chimney sweeps to solve various problems; therefore, everyone should be required. In this county, 50-60 people have three of these ball ropes. When they're supposed to use it, they have to make phone calls, just when they're getting it, and how long they're gonna have to wait for it. Disaster control checked this out, and he said it was appropriate for him to have three, because he would turn a blind eye to such things, and he would check this service anyway, he would check himself afterwards, until he had checked someone, so it happened, I don't know how it would be now. These people - I am talking about workers, about chimney sweeps - travel by public transport because they do not have vehicles. By the way, in public transport, they can travel by the kindness of bus drivers, because their work clothes, because they work, will usually get dirty, and it is in the regulations that they cannot otherwise travel on public transport vehicles in dirty clothes. Then let's talk about how they have carbon monoxide meters. These carbon monoxide meters are not calibrated or prescribed. It is not required when they should be tested. They buy the batteries with their own money for these instruments so they can work with them. These things you've listed, I'll tell you honestly, are a huge problem. We should establish a system - and we would be fully partners in this - that would take everyone's needs into account, and that could be a normally functioning system, but that would require you not holding the Philosopher's Stone, but sitting down with those organisations, say, the workers' union, sitting down, say, talking to employers about this, and creating a system that could work well. It could be under the aegis of disaster control, only under strict control. It should be created, which has been proposed several times: to split Hungary into so-called master districts, broken down into master districts, and to normally check their work, their quality work. These master districts should be operated as almost non-profit organisations, which, by the way, I think could be the way that the budget for the public service should be implemented by master districts, or a budget, which could normally be run under the control and control of disaster management. So believe me, it is clear that this system, which you are now trying to implement, will not work, will not work, and it is also clear what my fellow Member Volner said that something has been wrapped up here again, just like in gambling, as in the tobacco law, and that nothing else is being done but to steal this market for your own friends. By the way, the parallel with the gambling law is interesting, as there and here there were purely Hungarian businesses. These Hungarian businesses are being destroyed by you at the moment, and you will, as you were and have become, a reliable gambler, Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima, have become a reliable tobacco distributor, and now you will have a reliable chimney sweeper. But who it will be will be appointed by you, because I am absolutely sure that this will belong to your circle, and it will belong to your circle of friends who will meet the conditions that you will determine for him to meet these conditions. Then I would have asked Szilárd Németh questions if he had stayed. I'll put it on you, too, by the way. We're talking about employees again. So far, these workers have been trained in chimney sweeps for eight hours, and then they could be chimney sweeps. At the moment, as I said, there are 1850 chimney sweeps in the country, and if we remove those people who do not make the chimney sweep effective, then there are estimated to be at least 1300-1400 chimney sweeps in the country. According to you, this covers this profession in Hungary, so there are a sufficient number of chimney sweeps available. Is it true that you wish to launch a 250-hour crash course to train the chimney sweep? If it's true, then why does it have to be? Why do you need a 250-hour crash course to get this job? They may have to do this because they'll be able to blackmail chimney sweeps who, let's say, have done their job well so far, but they don't want to, say, work for a price, that there are three still standing in line for you, or you're going to do it, or you're going to leave. Then there are reports that so far the chimneys have had to be checked annually, and you will wish to carry out this inspection every two years. Well, where's the protection of human life? ! Because it has also been said that the saying that chimney sweeps bring good luck. Do you know where that saying came from? That's where the chimney sweep was most likely without fire. [[13.10]] There was no fire because there was a chimney check. Now you say it's enough every two years to check what matters, and that's what's gonna happen. My question is, will you say that, by the way, because you don't really answer that. There's a lot to say to a man. If Mr President is going to give me the opportunity, I am not going to take my 15 minutes, and I am not going to start, because I would not be able to do it with regard to the amendments made to the bill on fire protection, technical rescue and at all to the fire department, but if I get the opportunity, I will also say this. Because here, too, in this section, there are such inaccuracies and - I don't know - irrational things that I would like to tell you in any case, if you would like to follow the proposals of the Jobbik Hungary Movement and perhaps change this law. It doesn't make the law any good if they change it, but it might be better, and we can draw their attention to some shortcomings. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-18-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr István Happy for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-53	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, has listed precisely the reasons why a change must be made. Yeah, the chimney sweeps are in danger. Once again, some residents don't allow chimney sweeps, their instruments are not secured everywhere, they can't travel. That's exactly what the chimney sweeps tell me when I sit down with them, because I sit down with them. It happened in my district, too, that a company like this took over, and said that the reins were among the horses, that I went bankrupt, and then what happens to the resident, what happens to the employee, and that the workers really came to work, that they would do their job, that they would take their salary, that they wouldn't get, and that they didn't have their circumstances. This is precisely why we need to ensure that this service goes to disaster management, so that workers, chimney sweepers, who honourfully completed the schools that they needed to serve Hungarian people, have a secure livelihood, a secure job, always get paid, not earners of performance, but perform the service that they have learned. We also need this law so that Hungarian residents do not spend money on this service, so that everyone can let these people into their houses, they can perform the service to look at the chimneys, to look at their gas appliances, to make sure that they can live safely. Yes, Congressman, this law is in the interest of the working people living in difficult conditions in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-54	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-18-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Happy Member, I am pleased that you think so, but then my question is why there is not a single sentence about this in the law. Why not? How do you guarantee it? You didn't sit down with these organizations to negotiate. What is the guarantee for these workers? What guarantee have you given these workers? Did anyone tell these employees that this is how we imagine it at the moment, with such a wage, with such a contract, with such working conditions, that we will take over you? Well, these are the basics of having a market in this market, exactly - and we're not talking about tens and hundreds of thousands of people to sit down with - as I said, there are 1850 people, you could have sat down with them, but they have organizations. They sit down and say, look, this is how we imagine it - but there is no negotiation in this matter! There is complete insecurity, complete uncertainty among these people. Then I asked you, and I also said that, yes, when this situation existed - and unfortunately, the final push to this situation was given by this unthinkable, unthinkable reduction of the rent in this area, so we are not against the reduction of the rent, but against the need to plan this rationally - then the municipalities were in a position, and if you look at it, I am not interested in the political attitude, because I was talking about Fidesz Mayor Ákos Krizsó, who solved this situation when they were faced with this in Miskolc, that they did not take up any further, they put in 300-400 million forints to provide the population. I brought this as a positive example. But what about this 300-400 million forint? What about the 200-250 million HUF device that is currently in the Borsodi Kéményszeményesztár company owned by the city of Miskolc, which is 100% owned by Miskolc, because according to the law, it cannot officially hand it over because it will not be able to hand it over, since it would be necessary to issue a public procurement above HUF 25 million. I'm just trying to raise the problems here that we should solve together. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-18-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group.
u2015-03-18-57	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few unscrupulous sentences in two minutes. It was the Heves County Fire Technology Company that did its work at a very high level over the years. And it was the first company to fall for the cost reduction. They ruined it. They destroyed the business. I am listening to Mr Happy, and I see that you are trying hard to defend chimney sweeps, how to protect chimney sweepers, how to protect the ball chain, and now you will protect everything, but you cannot call it conciliation, unlike others. For example, I sat down with the union leader of the chimney sweeping company, who gave me at least 8-10 letters. These poor bastards were texting. They weren't even considered human, let alone co-ordinated with them. There's a board of industries, there's a chamber, there's a union. It's all about nothing else, I'm convinced, but I'm convinced that my friends are going to be assigned a business, a service that will most likely be needed until the end of time. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now also giving the floor to Members who have applied for speaking in a normal time frame, first to Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-18-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Yeah, that's the problem, if we can hear stories from fidesz fellow Members, what they think is in this law, but we can't find what I've already listed. Where will they get the tools, instruments and equipment of the billion-dollar magnitude required? It's not in the budget. Are you going to raise the disaster management budget to make sure that they have the right means, or are they going to be einstanded by these companies, or are they going to receive compensation for it? They're not all in the law. I think it would be a comforting law to get answers to that. I suggested that disaster management take over the workers, or what exactly will be the fate of the professionals. They're taking over everyone? All 1850 people, or just the 1350 we're seeing in the law? Right now, these people are doing civil work, working as a craftsman. From now on, how will they find their way into the militarised system of disaster control? Are they covered by the Labour Code or something? And the other question is: if these people do not go into this structure, and these people, who have decades of experience, have worked enthusiastically in this work as skilled workers, do not go to disaster control, then when, where, how? How are they going to replace this amount of people? As long as these things aren't in this law, we're not really calm. Of course, it can be said that they heard at the faction meeting that it will all be well resolved until it is written down, unfortunately no one believes you anymore. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-18-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm really gonna talk about protecting myself from the fire. One sentence, Lajos Korózs mentioned Heves County. Eger between December and March 2014: now, in these few months, the city of Eger had to spend 50 million forints to make the system work. In principle, it is also a question of how much of this has gone into devices, could be examined and what will happen to these devices. As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to go back to it, as regards the amendments to the draft law on fire protection, technical rescue and fire service, the main reason for the proposed changes to the rules was the harmonisation of legislation and the simplification of the previous double regulation. [[13.20]] The declared targets are, of course, acceptable and eligible by all of us in general, but the text of the proposed amendment does not reflect these objectives or, unlike the objective set out in the explanatory memorandum, does not help to regulate the regulatory area in a transparent and enforceable manner. The proposed amended definition, which seeks to separate fire-fighting products from construction products, does not contain any changes. The text currently in force delineates these two themes as being that all products which are not covered by the relevant EU Council Regulation defining the concept of construction products should be considered as fire-fighting technical products. On the other hand, the amendment refers to point (j) of the same section of the law, which defines the concept of construction product, which, however, is literally the same as the definition of the EU Council Regulation. It is undoubtedly a fact that the text is somewhat simplified with the proposed change, but is not capable of producing any substantive effects. According to the explanatory memorandum, this amendment is necessary because, according to the text of the current legislation, certain fire-fighting technical products can also be considered as construction products and can therefore be subject to double regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, The problem outlined in the explanatory statement is not a legislative issue, but an enforcement exercise. We maintain certain institutions and authorities and pay employees with sufficient professional skills to be able to interpret the legislation that applies to them. The proposed amendment does not significantly affect the interpretation of the legislative text, but does not contain any changes to the content of the current text, and I therefore consider that the amendment is unjustified. Unlike current practice, the amending proposal separates products, including individual machinery and equipment and technology, from the point of view of fire and explosion. The new definition of technology defines technology as a system of machinery and equipment. The justification is that the introduction of the new concept is necessary because prior certification is not feasible or would entail disproportionate costs prior to the inclusion of new technologies or systems and should therefore be excluded from the concept of the product. The new concept of technologies or systems consists of elements which are part of the concept of fire and explosive machinery itself, so certification of their conformity is mandatory and necessary by virtue of the current law. Therefore, the merits of the amending proposal cannot be interpreted as compliance certification cannot be avoided under the current rules. In particular, the technology has not yet been subject to compliance certification and the amendment does not make this mandatory, so the introduction of new definitions and new definitions does not serve either the obligation to harmonise legislation, simplification or comprehensibleness, as has been stated in the general justification. Another example of inconsistent and confusing use of terms is the new provision for the placing on the market of fire and explosive products that, in the event that the machinery is not certified, a test-based declaration of conformity issued by the manufacturer or distributor is sufficient. The concept of a declaration of conformity is precisely contained in this amendment, but the definition does not state what tests should be based on this declaration. The amending proposal therefore does not simplify and clarify the regulation, but opens up further loopholes, creating requirements that cannot be clearly met. Who will be the one to tell you what kind of investigation should be carried out in order to issue the declaration? What should be the result of the undetermined examination in order for the declaration to be issued? These are all important questions that we will not be answered at all. Will it be enough to refer to some kind of investigation, some kind of outcome, and then they can issue such a statement immediately? Ladies and gentlemen, We must not create rules that we know at the moment of their birth that they cannot be observed or enforced. Unclear or ambiguous regulation is a hotbed of abuse and corruption. We're supposed to be fighting this. We are fighting bureaucracy and corruption by all means, supposedly, but such things can be in a law. The amendment proposal to exclude entities without legal personality and other entities from the list of persons obliged to create the fire protection regulations is a further nuance of the amending proposal. I hope that this really is due only to the negligence of the pre-legislative staff and not to some other underlying intention. There can be no difference between organisations according to the way in which they operate, as there is no choice of fires. However, it is important to note that the text covered by the proposal should indeed be clarified, but this is not covered by the amending proposal. According to the text currently in force, those who employ at least five persons are obliged to establish a fire code. There is no legislation on where these five people are employed. Thus, it is also necessary to establish a fire code where the entity, say, takes an example, has three transforms in three different settlements and has a total of six employees who change each other in the ministry, so that more than one employee in one field is never involved in the work at the same time. Let us face it, ladies and gentlemen, let us face it, Mr Secretary of State, it would be unreasonable to impose such a burden on small, hard-working small businessmen who have come from your vastly friendly and feudal ranks. This is a completely wrong regulation. The point of the amending proposal which allows the breakdown and removal of the installed fire alarm and fire extinguishing systems and equipment, which have been established or operated under a legal requirement, on the basis of a permit, is also problematic. Where the installation of fire alarm and fire extinguishing equipment in a particular building is required under a legal obligation, this legal obligation shall not be negled by the licensing authority. If there is a case where the purpose and function of the particular building no longer means that the installation of the built-in fire and fire alarm equipment is required, the permission of the fire protection authority is no longer necessary, since it no longer has competence in the matter. The proposed amendment is a typical example of an unthinkable and unthinkable legislative practice. One of the least acceptable parts of the proposal is the extension of the grace period for fire protection certificates and marketing authorisations for construction products. In order to comply with the legal provisions and to issue new certificates, the current legislation granted the time until 1 July 2015 to manufacturers and distributors of products. It is justified that certain manufacturers and distributors are unable to comply with this obligation. It is believed that there were those who had obtained these appropriate certificates and licences, so the extension of the deadline set in the amendment means that it favours those who have failed to comply with their obligations laid down therein by ignoring the legal provisions. The consequence of this behaviour of manufacturers or distributors is expected to be that their products cannot be marketed, compared with those who have not complied with their legal obligations without time and cost. The amendment therefore openly favours the law-breaking, illegal behaviour and punishes the law-abiding. Ladies and gentlemen, It's really unsuitable. What guarantee is there that those who have failed to comply with their obligations in two years will be satisfied with the additional one year delay? Or maybe next year you'll be lobbying for another delay? This is simply an opportunity for those who have not yet tried to fulfil these obligations, who will receive another extension. Such amendments seriously undermine trust in the legal order, the authority of legislation. However, another question - because it may arise - is whether certain legal obligations that cannot be fulfilled by those obliged to do so in two years are realistic and feasible obligations. Then we'll have to examine this. It is not necessary to extend, let us say, this deadline, but to examine whether these obligations can be met. If they can be fulfilled, those who have refused to fulfil these obligations for two years will not have to be deferred. [[13.30]] However, if these obligations cannot be met, they will not have to be pushed out another year, because they will not be possible in a year's time, but will need to be changed. These should definitely be examined. In this regard, the explanatory memorandum does not contain any information, which is why I am asking it as a question. I think that before the decision to postpone should be taken, we should look more closely at the requirements that we make mandatory to comply with. On the whole, it can be concluded that parts of the proposal are in many cases undeveloped, that the proposed amendments do not facilitate simplification or comprehensibleness. The reasons for a large part of the proposed amendments are unclear; in several cases, the opportunist approach to legislative work, the assembly line-like practice of lawmaking can be achieved. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is, in our view, as bad as it is, and therefore the vote of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary should not be counted on in this law. You know that this must be accepted by two thirds. I hope that there will be no representatives of the opposition who will give you a helping hand to bring another sloppy matter before the House and get it adopted. In fact, I also hope that there will be some of your representatives who will see through the danger of this law, see through the absolute unthinkable and bad effects of this law, which will happen, and you will not all vote in favour of this law. So I hope so, and perhaps even - although not many of your representatives were present in today's debate - that we managed to convince those who were here, and if they have any effect, I am thinking specifically of Mr Secretary of State, then perhaps you should consider withdrawing this law and not bringing it to this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-18-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Pócs, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Szilágyi, do you think seriously in the benches of Jobbik that the sun does not rise because the rooster is crowing, but because the rooster is crowing? About any bill, if you don't understand, you'll try to explain that it's a problem if the sun rises from the east. Mr Szilágyi, if, at the time when the next election is due, and this last speech will be played out by the Members who are running around you, then you have failed the election, and Jobbik has failed the election. When you encourage Parliament and its fellow Members not to vote for a law that is good for people - bad for Jobbik and bad for the opposition because it wasn't their idea - then you will fail the election, but that should be your problem. You didn't understand the reduction in the rent. You do not understand this current bill. But, Congressman, it's not for you to understand. People understand and feel the significance. Maybe people didn't understand little detail about the reduction of the rent, how it would work, or how banking consolidation would work, but thousands of billions of people were back in their pockets in connection with banking consolidation. With the reduction of the rent, more than 170 thousand forints were returned to people's pockets per family. You may not understand, but people will understand. People will understand what it means when the chimney sweep was 5,000 forints and 10,000 forints, and now it's free. I believe the grapes are sour for all of you, because you didn't give me the idea. But don't try to explain the impossible. People will understand and perceive one thing: we, this government, put this bill in people's pockets compared to the previous government that took me. Ladies and gentlemen, There in the benches of the MSZP, Congressman Korózs, the lack of coordination from your mouth is very untrue, because you were your prime minister and your ministers who announced that we would not ask the frog when we drained the lake. This government is in agreement. Congressman, in vain, in your bench, the Prime Minister and the ministers elected by your vote have confessed to the negotiation that we will not ask the frog when we drain the lake. From your mouth, the lack of consultation and conciliation is untrue. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe you won't, people will appreciate the value of the reduction of the rent. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-18-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, submitted a two-minute speech.
u2015-03-18-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Puddle, I wouldn't have agreed to this if I were you, what people understand right now and what they don't. People really understand what's happening in this country. To discuss the next elections, I think... In relation to my speech, you did not highlight or respond to a single fact or object. You know why? Because he doesn't know how to do it. [[Lajos Korózs's name.]] In the next election, you're the one who won't be sitting in this Parliament. And you're right, people understand what's going on in this country, so if you had looked at the polls yesterday, you could have come across the fact that there are already 1.5 million people behind the Jobbik Hungary Movement. [[János Pócs: How's that for a chimney sweep?]] One and a half million people are the ones who would put us in charge of government at the moment, with you on the government, with a media at their disposal, so that they can run an advertising channel on Fides, which is called public service, and so they managed to get the support of 1 million 700 thousand people today. You just know what else is happening? It'll take some time, you'll be as arrogant, pompous, as unprofessional as you'll ever be, and you'll fall for it. If you have the answer to your professional speeches, you have not said one sentence about fire protection, but whether the rooster does not croak, the sun rises or does not rise... Well, excuse me, Mr Pócs, I think this is simply ridiculous, and I would say that it is an insult to the dignity of this House that you are willing to speak here in a professional debate with such demagogic speeches. So I apologize on your behalf for those who may have listened to this debate. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches. Lajos Korózs: Shame!]]
u2015-03-18-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, I cannot give Mr Zsolt Egyed the opportunity to speak in two minutes, since a two-minute speech per faction is possible. [[For signal:]] Congressman Zsolt Egyed asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2015-03-18-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Congressman Puddle, I wouldn't like to start my speech where you started, with the crowing rooster and all. What I can suggest to you on the basis of this law and many other laws that you are trying to make positive, and otherwise it has a negative impact on people to go to the countryside and ask the people who live there. Here, you are basically communicating this reduction as if the world had been redeemed or Hungary had been redeemed. I'm sorry to report to you that this is practically the way it looks in reality, and I'm not telling you this right now, but people are telling me this in the country, by the way, that you with your left hand may give them 1 or 2 units, but that with your right hand you'll lose 5 instead, that's for sure. Think about it. We're in the law on chimney sweeping, aren't we? This is not necessary in the downtown of Budapest, but it is also necessary here, but it is traditionally important in the countryside, where, for example, most people fire wood. For example, those who fire wood, honourable Members, should be asked how they were affected by the reduction in the overhead you have said, because, for example, as a man living in the countryside and in the village, I am talking to my neighbours, for example, my neighbors, who are old widows, are starting to collect in March, so that, for example, by November, they can buy the fuel. So that's how much they've been affected by the reduction of the rent. It is also very important to say here that, in this great ruckus that you are carrying on, and here with the chimney sweep, it is very important to say that people's opinion, when such a bill is presented, is that people no longer remember how good it will be for us, because we are going to pay 1000 forints less, but unfortunately, there is already in the public consciousness what many people have said before me, that casinos will come to mind, that tobacco stores will come to mind. These people think, oh, my God, who's gonna own this store again, who's gonna benefit from it again. [[13.40]] Because, unfortunately, in the last five years, you have carried this through Hungarian society, that if you try to provide something positive, nine out of ten people will think of what might be behind it. And I often think about such a speech, too, that you should not receive the Greeks, even if they bring gifts - so, unfortunately, this is your system. I would suggest to all my honourable fellow Members that if you remember or even have an agenda to present such a law, you should listen to the people who live their daily lives in practice. And it is very important that, if you really want to help people, instead of making sound speeches, perhaps you should put on the agenda the proposal that we, together with Jobbik and my colleague István Apáti, urged years ago, for example, to reduce the price of basic food, its overall turnover tax, to 5 percent. This would help every single person, and they would be much more pleased, believe me, if they could save a thousand forints every six months on the chimney sweep, because it affects people's everyday lives. But when you turn your back on the questions, you avoid the answer, you don't talk about it. I can only conclude from this that you are not really interested in the fate of the people, but in your own propaganda. I am telling my fellow Member Pócs that we should not go further for three years, because the ways of God are unfathomable, and the path leading up to 2018 may not be paved with your happiness. So I would ask my fellow Members to show much more humility towards the nation and try to work for the people to get along. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, has made a statement on a normal time frame. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-69	Congressman Pócs and I are almost grounded, and I wouldn't want to hurt you because of your speech, I just really wanted to draw the Member's attention to how obvious it is that, if we say, Jobbik says that the Internet should be free, then they say, "Ah, that's stupid, we can't do that, we're sweeping it off the table, we don't have to. If you say either the MSZP or the Jobbik to reduce VAT or basic food - no, that's not good, it doesn't help people. My colleague, Mrs. Wind Detti, is coming, says that the burden on the employer should be reduced to keep more money than people - they don't even care about it. [[János Pócs: Why didn't you win the elections?]] Let us say that it should be supported that we are trying to achieve energy reductions by using different means as much as possible in rural homes, and we should try to support it, to the extent possible, so that the reduction of the costs is achieved in such a way that as many family homes as possible have building engineering and energy efficiency improvements, they also say that it is not good. So you figure out that chimney sweep, Eureka, every man is begging to be a chimney sweep, and 130 people are standing up, and then as one person they yell that it will save the Hungarian country, which will make every Hungarian voter slip away that the chimney sweep, because otherwise people would protest on Kossuth Square, probably hundreds of thousands would come to protest for the chimney sweep. But everyone else in this Parliament says that it's a stupid thing to do, and it's a sin against people, because you're the only ones who have the knowledge to feel what's right for people. This approach is obviously offensive, because we should start from what I am starting to think of you, because we certainly see the world somehow, and we want the best for the Hungarian electorate. You think that making chimney sweep free is the best way to serve Hungarian voters - we may think that this is not it, there are better tools. Practically no matter how many tools I can tell you, I can easily compare with any of them, to see how many legislative proposals I have submitted in the last year, since I've been here, how many amendments I have tabled to do better - I can't say for one thing that any committee would have approved or approved a series of amendments. So the reason I'm asking you to communicate a little more discreetly about this is because you're throwing in one of these, and you have no idea what might be really necessary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-18-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have a two-minute speech: Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just because Congressman Pócs doesn't seem to understand it, even though I told you once - I'll tell you once again to make it clear. No, we do not support the free sweep service for people. We told them it was a cheap trick from you, because people won't get free service because someone has to pay for it, there's no such thing as working for free. We support it to be free, but we are not willing, and we have drawn attention to this through professional examples, but we are not willing, and we will never support you in making it free for people at the cost of fires or carbon monoxide poisoning, let us say, this service. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] What did we say? We told you, and I told you that we're in favour of this, in case you understand that there should be a system under strict disaster control, set up a system that works strictly under disaster control. Let us do this in a way that has been repeatedly proposed to you, to divide Hungary into master districts, and to provide budgetary resources for these master districts to carry out public service, because it will be the budgetary resource that will actually replace people's money, and this will be strictly monitored by disaster control. They say that this system is not this system. That's not the system! The system is that you obviously want to create an exclusively state, a service provider, as defined by you. In the master districts, it is not a service provider, it is an inspection, and it is not an attack on the market. You can swing at that, gentlemen, and you can ignore it, but you don't understand the whole point of it, and you answer professional questions with cockroaches. Professionally prove that the problems we have raised are incorrect and that you can solve them. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-72	Thank you. Mr Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, There are many in the benches of Fidesz who have been mayors in the previous and previous cycles. So believe me - and I am responding to Mr Sallai's suggestion - that this proposal, which lies before us, has been agreed with the opinion of the local government and former municipal leaders. I don't think we should see conspiracy theories. There is a problem that needs to be solved, and I believe that disaster control is an organ that is needed in this system. I'm a little shocked to see this angry response coming from Mr Szilágyi. Believe us that we individually elected Members of Parliament - all of us who are here are like this - are still meeting with our constituents every day and face a well-founded bill, where we should not create conspiracy theories, but accept our proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since I have no opportunity to speak for two minutes, I am asking if there is any further need to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Tasnádi, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Tibor Scones: He's not here.]] At the moment, the Secretary of State does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, It follows that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3749. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.50]]
u2015-03-18-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The most important innovation of the Law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals, as amended in 2014, was the division of the previously treated group of dangerous animals into three parts in view of the different levels of risk for the different species. On this basis, the legislation currently lays down stricter requirements for the holding of animals which are particularly dangerous, since they can only be kept in a zoo authorised to hold them. As a result, animal species that pose the greatest risk to human life should not fall into unfit housing conditions, care for incompetent individuals, thereby minimising the risk of accidents resulting from their holding. With regard to the holding of medium-risk animals, the law provides for the authorisation of the nature conservation authority. The keeping of animals requiring precautions is subject to less stringent requirements. In their case, instead of authorisation, the law provides for a notification obligation to reduce the administrative burden on keepers, while ensuring monitoring and control of the keeping of these species. The law also provides for the establishment of a national database to assist the public authorities with the records of dangerous animals. The records of dangerous animals were previously kept by the notaries, but these data were not linked to a national registration system. The unique marking and national database will provide accurate information on the number and species of dangerous animals in the country. This system is also used to make it easier to identify animals that may have escaped, and the owners can be traced back immediately. Dear House, Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals The aim of the amendment of the Act is to address technical clarifications and practical problems encountered in its application. The bill sets out the need for reptiles, birds and mammals to be uniquely identified from among the dangerous animals, which should be included in any of the categories mentioned above, in order to keep an accurate record of these specimens in the national database. In addition, the bill contains a supplement to the delegated provisions in order to extend the mandate to the establishment of any implementing regulation necessary for the provisions of the law on dangerous animals. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the Minister is authorised to lay down in a regulation rules on the range of dangerous animals, the rules on their individual identification, the rules on the retention, reproduction, disposal, transport of highly dangerous animals and the conditions for the operation of the national database of records of dangerous animals. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment of the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Animals by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-18-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-18-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The proposal before us contains minor amendments to the Animal Protection Act, which will have a major impact on labelling rules. To date, the law provided for the supply of the unique identifier, if possible, to birds, reptiles and mammals, which are particularly dangerous, moderately dangerous and requiring caution. Practical experience shows that it is also appropriate, in the interest of animal and environmental safety, to make this marking rule mandatory clearly and in all cases at the statutory level. The Minister for Food Chain Surveillance is empowered to amend its provisions on dangerous animals to lay down rules at the level of a regulation on all activities which are covered by the Animal Protection Act and which are required in relation to dangerous animals. To date, for example, the mandate has not been sufficiently differentiated for the detailed establishment of the marking rules. It can therefore be seen that this amendment is about smoothing out the unevenness that has arisen during the operation of smaller technical and legislative regulations. I would ask my fellow Members to support these amendments. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-18-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor. The bill seeks to correct the content errors made by the amendment adopted in 2012. In any case, it's a typical man-work of Fidesz-KDNP legislation. This is best seen by the fact that in the first sentence of the general justification, the dangerous animal was also written with a l; it can be seen that the Fidesz-KDNP government is in a hurry to legislate. Unfortunately, the preparatory of the text of the legislation is not aware of the basic rules of drafting legislation, and this is also seen quite strongly in the law. In 2012, when the latest amendment was made, the Fidesz-KDNP government found in the text that dangerous animals should be uniquely identified when possible. The courage of the Fidesz-KDNP must have increased by now, since from now on all animals, not just those to which it is possible, wish to place a unique identifier. The illiteracy of legislative editing is also indicated by the wording's intention to repeal certain sentences. This solution is explicitly contrary to the IRM Regulation 61/2009 on the drafting of legislation, because a sentence is not a text structure unit, so a sentence cannot be repealed from this point of view. Article 4 It is not possible to repeal certain sentences, as I have already said. Moreover, there is no need for such a silly trick, because the proposal is 1. Article 21 of the Act. §2 of the Act has been opened and proposals for amendments could be submitted without obstacles and should therefore not have been repealed. Therefore, it makes me wonder whether this law is at all suitable, and it also makes me wonder whether the Minister for Justice, who is in charge of not letting such jobs, such lousy products in front of the Parliament, allowed them to come in. So it makes me wonder if the law can be supported in this form. As regards the proposal, the question arises as to how the unique identification of dangerous animals has been provided so far, if only possible. The question is also how, for example, the zoo or animal shelter was possible if the minister did not have the authority to define it. What else did they do wrong in this law, and in a year's time, why will they bring it back to us? As long as these questions are not answered and work is not put on the table that is technically sound, support for the bill is not justified. Thank you.
u2015-03-18-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On this draft legislation, Jobbik will not have much debate with the government. The problem is rather what this amendment does not contain. I think it would be appropriate to make a much more comprehensive and comprehensive amendment in this area as well. Otherwise, our amendments will also attempt to do so, and we hope that we will experience a constructive attitude from the government and accept the criticisms that not only Jobbik says, but also received signals from countless civil society organisations. That is why I urge the Secretary of State to take these amendments seriously. But I think that this amendment is forward-looking, so Jobbik will be able to support it. I wouldn't want to keep talking. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2015-03-18-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the LMP Group, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, will be here to speak. I give you the floor.
u2015-03-18-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have reviewed the legislation, and the good news is that the LMP faction will be able to support this motion. We would simply like to ask for a very small technical amendment. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State if I do not have to present this as an amendment, because then the position of the government may be more negative than if you consider it as a rapporteur. [[14.00]] Technically, it's 3, 4 and 5. We do not make any comments on §2 which we can broadly agree with in substance and professionally. The Animal Protection Act is 21. However, as regards the submission of the amendment to Paragraph 3a of Article 3a of the Act, our problem is that only reptiles, birds and mammals of the vertebrate strain are mentioned as individual identification classes. Our position should be to think about it, and it would be useful, because in Hungary, there is a great spread of amphibians, arrow frogs and poison frogs, which would also be included in the dangerous groups of animals, if amphibians were not left out of the list. We have looked at examples of this in Western Europe, and it has practically been practiced in Western Europe. At the moment, we see that amphibians, according to the current state of science, can be gently marked with a microchip called a transponder, based on international experience. This is also supported by Western European animal protection organisations. Overall, the current regulation on the detailed rules for the authorisation of dangerous animals and their keeping. According to the joint decree of many ministries, a class of vertebrates is not named below the reptiles. This is the cause of this harmonisation problem. That's what needs to be corrected. I would like to thank you, as rapporteur, for considering and possibly amending it from this point of view, because it would certainly be more productive. In short, this is the general opinion on the legislation, and we ask the government to help us do so. What comes up in me about the subject, in me, is a little more than that. After all, it is clear to say that the governance led by Viktor Orbán can actually and seriously result in the creation of animal protection legislation, but at the same time the problems are already visible. A multitude of animal protection organizations are signaling this through the press. I asked my colleagues to print out what they found in Google in the last two weeks. Unfortunately, there are a lot of cases here. In practice, lawnsmen's farms operate in most places which do not comply with the animal protection law in relation to the killing of animals because they do not use the two-component, animal-friendly sleeping pills, because there is no municipal source for this. The municipalities do not provide a background for this. In the first instance, a multitude of animal protection tasks fall on the notary without any normative resources, and the government does not provide money to the notary to implement the background on animal protection regulations. We also see very recently that the Animal Protection Act is also being used to collect money. The news was published in Népszabadság, that the person who did not announce, chirped his dog could expect a penalty of 30,000 forints, but at the same time there was no implementation awareness among the population. Obviously, this is against the public's interests. I would just like to mention to my fellow Members, on the subject of the previous debate, that while we are making the chimney sweep free, with a few thousand forints released, the authority can punish a multitude of dog keepers in the first instance with virtually no discretion. It has to be done automatically, by the power of the law, which raises problems. However, we also saw an earlier news report. There was a lawnyard in the area of Veszprém where kennel painting was used to kill dogs who had adopted them. Obviously, the system has not fulfilled the tasks of keeping animals. I wanted to say these things to Mr Secretary of State because, in our opinion, and in the press on this issue, it appears that there have been a number of experiences that have been needed to remedy since the creation of legislation. Animal protection organisations have contacted me as Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development to deal with this, with nothing to do with it, and I have forwarded the request of animal protection organisations to an animal protection lawyer who defined his previous activities as an animal protection ombudsman. We forwarded his expert request, but as I think the secretary of state knows, the committees no longer have any expert framework, so they have been removed from the committees, so we have asked the Director-General to do so by opposing this request by the pro-government vice-president. The Fidesz environment and nature protection cabinet has discussed this animal protection issue, and Vice-President has not signed this request. They said we didn't need to deal with that. Obviously, we will look for opportunities for this, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that practice, everyday experience, shows that some points need to be amended. And speaking of which, let me mention two more things. I have had a speech before on resources for environmental NGOs. This was known as the Green Source, and since 97 it has had all kinds of names from the fuel environmental fee to the KAC, and this has been constantly decreasing. Previously, a multitude of animal welfare organisations have used the possibility of applying for basic animal rescue activities. The fact that some large animal protection organisations can communicate well with a large advertising campaign of 1 percent of their income does not mean that there is a way for anyone to deal with this in rural areas of Hungary and in a multitude of its settlements. There is an incredible need for this resource to be re-available and, among other things, to support civil society initiatives of this kind. I mentioned this as an example because, in the case of ragweed, it was used in one government decision in one day with the support of the Prime Minister for more than HUF 600 million in order to be able to go to civil society organisations for this purpose. This means that if there is political will, this instrument can be implemented. I ask Mr Secretary of State to represent in the Government the political will to maintain these organisations and these activities. I would like to ask you to consider the corrective amendment, and I can assure you that, if that happens, we will be able to support the legislation. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-84	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Egyed as a pre-registered speaker.
u2015-03-18-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik Hungary Movement is committed to animal protection and is committed to introducing responsible and in every respect XXI. It's a hundredth-century animal breeding. This bill or legislative proposal, which has come before this House, can be supported by Jobbik, but I would like to make some comments on the Animal Protection Law. Here, I would like to address right away what my colleague, Mr Benedek Sallai, has discussed, in the case of dogs, other animals, and now reptiles, dangerous animals, the supply of transponders. This is practically a microchip implanted under the skin of the animal, and normally, if the animal escapes or is separated from its owner in some way, it can be identified in a second by a scanner assigned to it. Now, the following problems have arisen. Here, my fellow Members have spoken before me, for example, about the mandatory supply of dogs with transponders, which, in my opinion, was very useful and good. But there's a problem here, too. Animal protection organizations have indicated to me that I've been in contact with a lot of animal protection organizations, that stray animals are caught on the street or here or there, where they go out for the animal on request to the public, and they experience the following. The animal is equipped with microchips, and here, we are talking mostly about dogs, but the microchip is not assigned to the owner's contact details. So on the transponder reader, there's basically a sequence of numbers, and it's kind of hard to figure out where that animal's coming from or where it's going. That is what I would like to draw attention to. As far as I know, registration of this chip is the responsibility of the chip implanting the vet. I think that there is still work to be done on this, not to end the task of implanting the microchip into the animal, but also to insert it into the database at the right time. I don't blame vets on this right now, of course, because I know how much veterinary surgery is overloaded, and they're probably gonna replace it after a while, but I think it should work properly. So when, for example, and now, whatever vertebrate, reptile, any animal, if that particular microchip is included, it should have its data up to the base within an hour so that it can easily be returned to its owner. [[14.10]] The other very important thing that I would like to note here is that here, Mr Secretary of State has also said the categories: dangerous animals, medium-dangerous animals, requiring caution, this is very important that these categories are born and we are paying attention to this, but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as in other areas of life, the black trade is, unfortunately, quite significant here. So I'm sure that if someone found the right person with the right amount of money right now, in the right place, they could get access to virtually any animal, and they wouldn't cause any particular problem. For example, there was a case in Miskolc ten years ago that a tiger was taken from a family house at the gates of Győri, because that's exactly what they thought, and no one noticed that it was walking in the yard. This, of course, was an extreme example. In connection with the escape of animals, let's say that when an animal escaped from home terrariums, which causes the greatest alarm among humans, a person encounters reptiles or a large snake, for example, in a stairwell, it may not be a pleasant experience. So I would ask the Honourable Secretary of State and the Government to pay more attention to these. I would like to draw attention to one more thing: I believe that in most of this animal protection law, which is available here in Hungary, and what is now in force, is good. However, what is not good is that this Animal Protection Act - the time has proven - is not suitable for ensuring the protection of animals properly, and this will only happen, Mr Secretary of State, if there is an appropriate harmonisation between the Animal Protection Act and the Criminal Code. To this day, we hear of serious cases of animal cruelty, to this day we hear of certain places where dog fightings are being held illegally, and until there is such a deterrent action, and now I'm going to tell you what I mean... For example, who can be proven to be committing animal cruelty or killing an animal's life merely for pleasure, must be punished, I think, by imprisonment. Because a six-month suspension and a fine of ten thousand forints on a man with such a sick soul won't hold him back. And now I'd like to go back a little bit to the dog fights, not even a hundred thousand forints fine, because at a tournament like this, my intel tells me millions of dollars are changing hands. So it's not a deterrent. And I do believe that the time has come for the police to be given the possibility that if they are informed by a public announcement or by any other means that they are not treated properly with a pet or any animal, they will be starved, tortured, the police should have the opportunity to confiscate the animal from its owner on the spot. There are procedures here that, by the time such a case is carried out in Hungary at the moment, it usually ends with the death of the animal. I would ask my honourable pro-government colleagues and honourable secretary of state that what I have just said should be considered and, finally, back to this amending proposal, I can say that this amending proposal can be supported by Jobbik. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-86	This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It would be possible to speak for two minutes now, but there is no candidate, so I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-03-18-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to say what I have to say in the main speakerial round, because I may have a slightly broader interpretation of the legislation. With regard to the petting of dogs, I absolutely agree with my fellow Member, Zsolt Egyed, that the practice of recent years has shown how to refine the system. We were very pleased at the time that in the native dogs the spaying relief passed, was it not a good proposal at the time, but the neutering was largely absent, and this is mainly characteristic of the countryside, where unfortunately there is still a much higher proportion of sexual dogs than would be healthy. Thank God, we are not there, like Romania and some Balkan countries, where virtually the number of stray dogs is the same as the population, but the danger continues. And on top of that, these stray dogs are causing a lot of serious economic damage, if we don't look at anything else, then, let's just say, in terms of wildlife, we should encourage the dogs to be even more able to understand that it is also in their interest to have neutered, and then, through this, the possibility of an unexpected breed will clearly cease, and it will be much easier to deal with this problem. In the case of stray dogs, it is also a serious problem that in many cases it is not possible to identify where they come from, so there is no one to be fined if these dogs can be caught later. I would go on with this story so much that we have already said this in the debate on legislation adopted in the previous cycle that cats are not mentioned when it comes to animal protection and animal control. But from a nature conservation point of view, I dare say that they cause more problems than stray dogs. I'm talking about protected or heavily protected birds, reptiles, amphibians, whose population is seriously damaged by runaway domestic cats. Not to mention that the pure-bred, complete, 100% genome wild cat populations have almost disappeared in Hungary because of these runaway domestic cats, as they cross over. So I think it would be time - and I would encourage the government to have political courage, in which Jobbik will be able to support - to move towards cats in this direction, and we should really start pressing cat racks on them to either have official breeding paper and this is their quasi-substitution or to neute these individuals. And not only because of the classic example of the conditions under which the owners destroy most of the born kittens, but also because of the environmental and nature conservation concerns that I have said in the previous ones. So I think it would be worth considering. I would also like to address the role of education. I regret the fact that the integration of animal protection into education in Hungary is in such a predicament. This should be quite simply started from kindergarten to constantly slipping into children, up to higher education at all levels, obviously in your capacity. At the moment, as I see it, it is left to the instructors, the kindergarten educators, it would be good to have some kind of unified government intention, because it is the only thing that can ultimately lead us to reduce the number of these critical cases to an acceptable level. I have one question for the Secretary of State, which I would very, very much like to have an answer to, this is the case of MEOE. Practically an organization, regardless of the status of government, has been blackmailing the Hungarian governments for many years now. This registration scandal, I believe, is world-famous in dog circles and a real Hungarian example, a deterrent example. [[Egyed Zsolt: Hungarikum!]] It's a real Hungaricum. It would be good if we could finally get an answer to how long this process will last, what will be the solution to this. Even with Secretary of State Budai, I have had countless occasions here in this House to argue that this blackmail, which this organization is doing against the governments of all time, when it can end and in what way. I know there are government intentions about this. They've been through a lot of trials, but it's absurd that this could happen here. I'm not even gonna tell you what kind of information we have here, what circles help this association, because, let's put it mildly, the sexual orientation in this dog circle is supposed to provide them with quite a lot of international support. [[János Pócs: Sick!]] By the way, I was not the first to say this here in Parliament, so it would be good not to decide on this basis which organization can issue internationally recognised registration books in Hungary and which one does not. So I hope, Mr Secretary, that we can finally get answers to these questions, because I really think it is amazing what has been going on in these circles in Hungary for years now. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-03-18-88	To the next normal comment, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-03-18-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to join the professional arguments made by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar. I can support it in a lot of ways, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the case of cats, it is not only about animals that are wild and without a farmer, but also about the technique of misholding domestic cats, that in practice domestic cats can be seen at the outskirts of the settlement. There is already a great deal of research on this, so I can only fully support and strengthen this problem. One thing that has come up in my mind about the previous comment, which I would also like to ask of the Secretary of State, if there is a way and an opportunity to represent him in the government. This is obviously in connection with the specific legislation now, namely the practice of implementing the Washington Convention, the CITES in Hungary. The Secretary of State certainly knows what department and who is dealing with this within the Ministry's organizational system, but it is virtually possible to say that there is no continuous control in this area. Even though there is a department or a department whose territory is the implementation of domestic obligations under international conventions - we are talking about a convention that was born in 73, so it is now a 42-year-old convention, it was ratified by Hungary in 85, and during the slightly more beautiful days of nature conservation, it has been discussed regularly in order to ensure that its implementation and illegal trade, i.e. the trade of species belonging to Appendices 1 or 2 of the Washington Convention, have continued attention. It can be seen throughout the country that they are constantly selling CITES species in all kinds of forums, in animal fairs, and, since there are no trained personnel to deal with this, this is a very big problem. That would be two tasks for the government, I think. One of them would obviously be the strengthening of the nature conservation guard and the substantial expansion of its number, which would provide an opportunity to have capacity for these tasks. The other is the assistance of professional organisations specifically involved in this area. In the past, civil society organisations from international sources have constantly looked at all such ads and forums where they offer them, and this has made a lot of useful announcements, and the government has been able to act. Right now, the intelligence is very, very low, because there's no one to deal with it. It would be very good if, because of the enforceability of this legislation, which is now ahead of us, Mr Secretary of State could support in the government that the resources and intentions for these objectives should be as abundant as possible. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-18-90	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes.
u2015-03-18-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's just that I was inspired by the solo in front of me. I would just like to say to the ebony story of registration that it would be good to solve this problem because you can already hear that similar conflicts and rivalry are beginning to develop among cats and ferrets, so it would be good to have clear legislation on whom the state will conclude some kind of agreement, who will have such permissions in domestic and international forums. Turning to CITES: yes, the real problem is that, for example, European terrestrial turtles, while previously this system was actually operating under control, today, if you go to any of the classified sites, you can buy animals without paper. This is a serious problem. Maybe one more thing that belongs here is the issue of falconry. There are native protected birds that are well - known to have been found in falcon circles and are covered with different subspecies and hybrids to keep these animals and have professional tricks. Thank God we have them, because that's how this profession or this hobby could live and flourish and maintain world fame. At the same time, it would be good not to treat these people as criminals, and to distinguish between who really robbed such a nest and who acquired these animals from nature, or who has been inheriting this hobbit for years, or even from their great-grandparents, because believe me, Mr Secretary, there are real problems in this area, and I would like us to be able to distinguish between those who are harmful to nature and those who have legally acquired these animals, or in a semi-legal way, because legislation does not allow this to be entirely legal. I want us to be able to handle these. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-92	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-18-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first of all thank you for all these valuable contributions, supporting comments and, of course, critics. Congresswoman Anita Heringes flashed her codification skills. Of course, we'll look into your suggestions. I see a substantive proposal or a question, and this is to avoid the term, if possible. The reason for this change is that if the term, if not possible, remains in force, it would, for example, be mandatory to label the arthropods in principle, because it would be possible to mark them as a result of the development of the technique. It is therefore necessary to amend the legislation. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek proposes to expand the range of dangerous animals. I note here that, for example, only the specimens of arrow frogs in nature are dangerous, and they contain poison, because they take it with food, so they are not included in the plan of regulations under nominating dangerous animals. However, in other enlargements, such as fish, there is no risk of escape, so it has to be considered. Of course, we'll consider your arguments. There has been much talk here, obviously with a broad interpretation of this agenda, but the unblessed relations in the field of dogs and dog breeding are a good example of the least not party-specific conditions. I do not know when you will find a solution to this, but Secretary of State György Czerván is working on this with a fever, just as his predecessors have done in the previous and preceding cycles. I'm telling you what we can do. The Secretary of State responsible for nature conservation decided to leave at least one of the nine Hungarian breeds of dogs to the national parks, and the national parks, each park, each take up one of the nine types of Hungarian dogs. Indeed, an explanation should be given, in such unblessed circumstances, as to why a cyrillic broom can be used to expel the quash and why its owner should be bitten by the Komondor, so it is not certain that dog breeding is going in the right direction at the moment; I say this strictly as a private person, but we are working on it. The transponder marking has been mandatory since 2013 for dogs over four months of age, and the national dog database now contains data for more than two million dogs. Congressman said that perhaps Mr Zsolt Egyed; in answer to his question, there is a spaying programme currently under way for dogs at shelter, and there is indeed a problem with the absence of this in cats. All in all, thank you, Mr President, and Mrs President, and, of course, the amendments tabled will be taken into consideration, and I will then ask for your support in the adoption of the legislation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-94	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Next up is the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3750. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I also give the floor to Minister of State Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[14.30]]
u2015-03-18-95	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Food chain security means that the food chain does not pose an unacceptable health and economic risk to the individual or society. In order to achieve an ever higher level of food chain security, it is necessary to change the legislative environment from time to time. The EU basic document on food chain legislation is 178/2002 on the general principles and requirements of food law. EC Regulation. In addition to protecting health and the environment, the regulation also outlines the importance of chain management, risk analysis, precautionary measures and traceability. Food chain security can be substantially improved by identifying as many hazards as possible and reducing their risk to an acceptable level. One of the key issues of food chain security is the detection of illegal operators. To this end, the bill, in line with the food chain security strategy, will set up a central risk assessment system instead of the network structure currently fragmented. This allows, on the one hand, the surveillance of known risks and, on the other hand, the management of unknown hazards and unacceptable risks. The resources, databases, the knowledge base that are the basis for a transparent risk analysis system at national level are centrally available. The principle of transparency should also be applied in relation to the origin and traceability of foodstuffs. Food is a trust product because information asymmetry exists between the consumer and the producer. This means that the parameters related to the quality and safety of the food are not known to the consumer at the moment of purchase, nor can it normally be determined in an in-depth investigation. It should therefore trust the manufacturer, on the one hand, and the credibility of the regulatory oversight system on the other. This information asymmetry is to be reduced by introducing a certification system for consumer information. Instead of the former county level, a uniform rating methodology will be introduced nationwide, allowing, among other things, quality-driven mass catering. Under the proposal, the range of data stored in the food chain monitoring information system - FELIR - will be extended and the exchange of data between FELIR and other external systems will be possible, a good example of which has already been achieved is the creation of a mutual link with the EKAER system. Dear House, The food chain events of the past period have demonstrated that, in order to protect human health, it is necessary to ensure that the decision to take action by the food chain monitoring body in order to prevent human health threats can be enforced without prejudice to appeal. In order to clarify the problems of interpretation that have arisen in practice, the amendment also states that the food chain inspection fee should be paid only after the sales of products subject to food chain surveillance, in accordance with the provisions of Union law, since this fee is intended to finance the costs of official controls related to the monitoring of the food chain. The extension of the authorisation contained in the amendment will allow the practice already followed by several EU Member States to lay down rules for the production, marking, placing on the market and control of food and feed free from genetically modified organisms by the Minister for Food Chain Surveillance. The bill contains further additions and amendments in order to comply with European Union law. For example, it sets out the concept of a catering establishment in accordance with EU law. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I call on this House to support, with their contributions, professional proposals and votes, the amendment of the Act on the Food Chain and Official Surveillance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-96	Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I therefore give the floor to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-18-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment is linked to the Food Chain Security Strategy adopted in 2013. The strategy aims to ensure that food chain products are at all times healthy, of high quality and safe, and that people and society demonstrate a high level of awareness and responsibility in their production, trade, use and consumption. To this end, the strategy proposed the introduction of a system of central risk analysis, to which the bill takes steps. The results of the quality assessment of food chain products have so far been incompatible at system level due to the fragmented network. In addition, certificates for food chain products, trademarks and certificates of origin have created an opaque system for citizens. In order to standardise and rationalise the fragmented network, a central risk analysis system and a national food chain certification and origin testing system based on public laboratories are foreseen. These systems will centrally aggregate the data generated at national level so that food chain monitoring can become effective. Similarly, it is a step towards the objectives set out in the strategy to require the development of rating systems. The food chain monitoring body shall be given the task of examining and evaluating catering establishments, including catering facilities, in accordance with hygiene, food safety and food quality criteria, and shall issue an official certificate on this basis. In addition to the changes linked to the strategy, the food safety law will also be changed in order to harmonise EU legislation. It is good to incorporate EU standards for consumer safety and information as much as possible into the domestic legal order. That's 1169/2011. European Union Regulation No 1 is incorporated into the legislation as a reference by requiring consumers to be properly informed. Some amendments are also needed to address some of the problems raised in the application of the Food Chain Act to date. It will therefore be clear that the food chain inspection fee will have to be paid for revenue from products subject to food chain surveillance. The other products are not covered by the charging system, which was defined in previous amendments to the law, which is much debated by some of the opposition colleagues, which, despite the many objections, does not seem to have destroyed the retail sector, but contributed to an increase in food safety. The rapporteur also considers it necessary to extend the scope of the food chain monitoring information system, which will also ensure better performance of food safety tasks. When amending the proposal, they clearly serve to improve regulation, so I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-03-18-98	I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-18-99	Thank you very much for the floor. The proposal is eligible, since it is also worth mentioning that not only the presence of an authority and the new administrative requirement will create conditions for food safety in the first place. The most important tool would be social awareness-forming, encouraging conscious consumer behaviour, promoting the whitening of the black economy, we think, and reducing counterfeiting at the same time as more and more of the products that are placed on the shelves of shops that are produced at home. I think it would be really good if the service from the Nébih contributions were now displayed behind it, anyway, you raised it by 6 percent in the previous budget, it would be nice to see some service at last, and people should not be worried about the condition of the product taken off the shelf, where it was produced, where it came from. I think they still have a lot of work to do in this law. We will support this in advance, because we see the intention to improve, but that is not enough.
u2015-03-18-100	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-03-18-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2008 XLVI on the food chain and official supervision. Amendment to Act T/3750 It contains amendments concerning the provisions on food labelling and the provisions on official operations. Of course, these amendments are closely linked to the Food Chain Security Strategy adopted in 2013. My fellow Member, Mr Pócs, mentioned in his speech that the results of the quality examination of food chain products were very fragmented, the whole system was fragmented, incompatible and examined in different ways, and that was why certificates and certificates of origin were a major problem. By unifying this, a new system should be established to provide adequate information for both consumer and public decision-making. Therefore, food marking and the method of marking used, as well as the presentation, form or shape, packaging, presentation of food, accessories, advertising should not mislead the final consumer or attribute to the food the characteristics of disease prevention, treatment or treatment; it should not give rise to the impression that such properties exist. The bill is 4. §2 of the Act complements the existing regulation to this end, i.e. it provides for the operation of the central risk management system, as stated by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, Pócs. The Authority should place particular emphasis on the introduction of rating systems to replace previous administrative types of checks. Based on the experience gained so far, the issue of national uniform certification, methodology and certification can only be managed centrally, so the bill complements the previous regulation by examining and evaluating catering establishments in accordance with hygiene, food safety and food quality criteria. In the long term, this can contribute to the development of quality-driven food, broaden the scope of issues that customers can handle electronically and reduce administrative burdens. In relation to the objectives set out in the Food Chain Security Strategy, which was adopted earlier in 2013, the bill introduces a system of transparent central risk analysis, as already mentioned. Then Mr Secretary of State also mentioned that my colleague Pócs mentioned the payment of the food chain inspection fee, which will in fact be 0.1 percent of that turnover, while at the same time clarifying the exceptions to this rule. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction proposes to this House the adoption of the draft law, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-102	I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-03-18-103	Mr President, Dear House, We have a very thin pacsameta when we are discussing the issue of food safety, as we can see that we do not have the concept of government on the table now, but, after all, in the framework of an EU implementation process, the aim is to try to regulate so-called food safety issues in roughly the same framework and rule system in all countries of Europe, where we may already have a serious problem, our serious sense of lack of awareness of the changes in the government's action programme, as mentioned by the Fidesz lead speaker. There were indeed various changes in legislation in 2012, 13 and 14 respectively. At the same time, the one-time commoner does not see a systemic deviation from previous problems. So, while the government strategy, the resulting regulation, is lacking, is now taking the simpler way, they are practically letting the Union figure out what control system is to be carried out in Hungary. At the same time, a number of important issues that Hungary has been able to regulate, whether well or not, will be repealed or placed in parallel with the paper before us. The idea that Hungary should regulate what is possible in a complementary way would obviously be closer to me. Remember the method of marking, the marking system, for which I was able to demonstrate to you 12 types of Hungarian product-marked food industry waste here in 2011 and 12, but also later, where, let's say, the laurel leaf from Turkey was written in very big letters that Hungarian product, red-white-green, was in this area. Let us not debate the efforts that have taken place in the direction of ordering in those years, but we must see that some of the abuses have persisted, and now the Hungarian government is essentially resigning from some of its powers to regulate this area in its own hands. Instead, there is an EU package that will decide in Brussels what the marking of the products here can be or cannot be. Let us not scold this system in its entirety, because just to give you three positive examples, even if nutrition needs to be indicated according to a mandatory scheme, even if the grace period is two years, I say that, for the sake of easier comparison, it is possible for our fellow citizens with various civilisation diseases to have easier access to certain types of food and to compare their contents more easily. Similarly, information on allergen content should be clearly highlighted in the list of ingredients. This has been largely the case, but it is obvious that this system should be refined and clarified. In principle, similar information is already required for non-prepacked food varieties. The problem is that if we look at food scandals and cases that ruffle moods, whether it's meat labelling or various toxic, contaminated, repainted, counterfeit products, we see that we can read a nice long flow chart by 2012. They line up in front of me, by the way. Only we can find these from 2013, 2014 and 15 of them. Let us not say that a situation can be achieved, whether by EU rules or, once again, by means of fair domestic regulation, that there will be no such food scandals, since there will be a quantity of goods on the European market that cannot be checked individually. But what we do need to say is that Jobbik has done its part to make the sanctioning system at least fairer. In the previous cycle very, very few better amendments were made. Tamás Gaudi-Nagy was linked to a better representative, which means that food criminals who consciously shaped either the product range or its component or the distribution system can be burdened with a billion-dollar magnitude of burden, either in the Hungarian market or in the health of Hungarian people. But once again, after the regulatory amendment mentioned by the Fidesz-KDNP leaders and keynote speakers, I'm still looking at a slightly funny case in 2013: about 400 thousand sachets of tagged, extended quality-preservation, marked gum sugar, the Pest County Government Office imposed a fine of 300 million. [[14.50]] For this 300 million, it could be said that it is a huge sum, but once again, in the sense of a better-looking, passed-through amendment, it could have been a fine of up to a billion-dollar magnitude and truly dissuasive. Then we see - news from 2015 and analysis before me, so once again, I would like to point out to my fellow Member Pócs that this is not an abuse before your amendments in the midst of the amazing jungle states, but about 2015 -: re-labeled, unknown-origin vegetables have been seized by the authorities in the wholesale market, where re-labellings and re-packings are almost no longer an urban legend, but there are a lot of real records on this, but it is not visible that the government would want to seriously prevent them from taking any measures. The people responsible are being prosecuted for tax evasion, but the outcome of this is obviously going to stay in the dark. In the same way, the scandal about painted, counterfeit beef comes from this period and is understood from this point when, in principle, there was already a stricter regulation in place. Similarly, a series of provisions on the indication of the country of origin will be introduced, on which the government will also rely on EU legislation. Obviously, you have responsibilities, but you also have an opportunity; we do not have the opportunity to sit at a table with Brussels in such cases. You would have the opportunity to consult on a continuous basis, not only to translate and transfer legislation in a servile manner, as I do not suppose, but if you would do so in all areas, then what would the Hungarian government need? Then we should hire a good translation team, which translates and transposes Brussels legislation, and the Hungarian good people will accept them. Obviously there will be no such world, because we do not want to live in a world like this, and we good people will not let it; fortunately, more and more people think like us, the polls prove it. But what we need to see is that the danger is real, because in this case, the series of additions to the national legislation is not visible, so that food safety can be guaranteed in Hungary in the long term. And to stop stalling, I'd just like to take one example. According to the series of measures in front of us - let us say, it is very good to examine public catering or its increased possibility of testing it, but - they would refer it to a ministerial level of regulation, on the one hand, with winery, this is also very important, but what I am even more interested in now is the creation of rules on genetic engineering. So they would move such very important areas to ministerial regulation, which should be at least here, but I would say even more so that the real national consultation should take place on these issues. Otherwise, you can transpose EU legislation, ideas and directives, you can bring this into the Hungarian legal system, but tell me this: if the transatlantic investment agreement goes through - for example, with Canada, before ratification, then why not go through its enlarged big brother - the European Union will have a 29th Member State in the person of the United States of America, let us say that it is no longer possible to clean up the genetically modified trash from the European market or keep it away from it, yet what Brussels directive you will transpose, what Hungarian solution will be developed to ensure that Hungary's GMO release can be maintained at any cost, against anyone, under all circumstances. After all, you have declared this in words - which I am very happy with, and I agree with that, so don't think I'm looking for a knapsack, too - but I ask with great respect what guarantee is there that this very well-intentioned and otherwise fundamentally technical, short regulatory package will not have a much bigger problem behind us, about which Fidesz MEP said in the Hungarian Parliament on the day of debate that we are asked to support the Transatlantic Investment Agreement. Incredibly, we were not asked to have a debate about it, either at national level, or to ask voters, because there is such a serious issue; he said that there is a Fidesz representative here in the Chamber to ask us to support the agreement by which the US's food waste can enter Europe, by which the United States of America gains rights on the European market, including on the Hungarian market, but does not receive obligations in return. This would take home Hungarian food safety, regardless of these provisions, for a century, as even the spread of expert estimates is very high in terms of how much the original state can be restored after GMO contamination. Some people do this for hundreds of years, by the way. I do not say that with this technical amendment package, but I do say that I miss terribly the scope of the government's own additional provisions, the strategy and vision behind this, which we do not know about, except for some press statements, and, in the long term, the fact that, by preserving Hungary's GMO-free nature, we will retain our only real strategic advantage, and I would also expect you to declare that this agreement is not necessary, Hungary will not assist in this betrayal under any circumstances, and will not only maintain food security, but also the sovereignty of the country by rejecting similar experiments first and without any compromise. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-104	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-03-18-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I can share very much the opinion of my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. The only thing I have to say is that I am very dissatisfied with the opposition - whether the MSZP or Jobbik - is that obviously the LMP cannot be put in a position for us to say that this is noted by a minister whose buddy feeds children with dog meat in Tiszafüred. The LMP will not go down to such a tabloid level, and I very much missed the fact that this was missed by my opposition fellow Members, although I would have expected this at least if there had been food safety. However, what I can say is that we consider regulation on several points of tightening conditions to be acceptable in a number of respects. The LMP considers it particularly good to introduce the right to appeal, which would have been very fortunate before, which is why LMP can support this. The national food chain certification and testing system shall be established on the basis of state laboratories. We have doubts about how this can be accomplished, but we do not see it coming from the devil. They also extend powers to catering and public institutions, where an official certificate is issued, and some additional measures are included in the regulation. The LMP takes the view that this is such a normal grating of the rule, obviously adopting more EU legislation. Obviously, what we can say several times a day is that the hasty legislation - we are talking about December 2013 - forces us to correct the error. It is constantly apparent that the country is in a permanent test facility for legislation and that we can sit here and spend time here because of a continuous test operation. We also have a small concern that some of these measures may be justified, but it can be seen that the Nebih is getting bigger and more swollen, it will be as small as the government office, and there are growing concerns that control and administration can be implemented and implemented. That's mostly because if you look at the events of the last week or two, they found dried mummy rats in a plant that, by the way, I don't know what kind of bio-qualified, caveman-- or [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Paleolit.]] Paleo has food, not two days after that, another plant was found where all kinds of rodent-poisons and bird droppings were stored in large quantities of re-labeled foods. Obviously, I do not think that this has been done by fidesz people, but I think that little capacity to implement government resources and legislation will contribute to this. If there is little source of administrative control and continuous presence to deter people from such behaviour, then it is important to consider how this system can be strengthened. The most important experience, in my opinion, is obviously that it is not enough to create legislation constantly, and that they should be implemented. The Possibly Other is Politics, which I can say for sure is that you can support this proposal under certain conditions. We would very much like the rule to help the simple working people and small producers, which Fidesz and the Prime Minister have constantly mentioned. It's the 13th. § (2), when defining the concept of a catering establishment, it does not take into account the fact that the Ministry of National Economy is working on the creation of the concept of a producer table in the form of a workshop, and it is already possible to see that we hope that there will be a sense of government reception that the rural guest tables or other rural accommodations, housing restaurants which provide producer catering services, so that they provide a service, not technically industrially, but a service combined with general rural tourism, should be an facilitation, so that they are not included in this industrial catering establishment. [[15.00]] When defining the concept of a catering establishment, it does not take into account the fact that the Ministry of National Economy is working on the creation of the concept of a producer table in the form of a workshop, and it is already possible to see that we hope that there will be a government capacity to receive those rural guest tables or other rural accommodations, housing restaurants which provide restaurant services for producers, i.e. providing services, not technically industrial, but a service combined with general rural tourism, so that they are not included in this industrial catering establishment. (15.00) This is one of our amendments, which we would like the parties of government to support, because we would benefit the target group with what the governing parties regularly consider important. In addition, there are virtually two other provisions that can make this facilitation possible on the basis of the legislation on food chain and official supervision. I will not tell you in detail, because we are not having a detailed debate, but in two or three points we would like to put small farmers' and village catering services in a position by making small facilitations. When it comes to food safety, we think that there is the least concern about the omissions in this regard, where the guest sees the chicken, not just the food maker, directly, but even the chicken in the yard. So in these places, which provide such catering services, we would very much like to have facilitations allowed by the governing parties. Thank you very much, Mr President, and good work, everyone.
u2015-03-18-106	This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2015-03-18-107	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to note that I can identify with most of the arguments that have just been made, but in relation to the Nebih, let me have some important thoughts. In itself, I do not feel as a problem that the Nebih is very swollen, much more interested in its effectiveness. By the way, in the previous cycle, we personally visited the leader of the Nebih, and I must say, despite our negative expectations, we have gained very pleasant experiences. The main problem is that - once again - we have taken a very important step, we have beat through an amendment in the previous cycle, under which we could punish food fraudsters and abusers by HUF 2 billion, the problem is that unfortunately this tool, this excellent sanctioning tool, is very rarely used by official bodies. We were about to expect the miracle again from the transposition of EU rules, while everyone here told Fidesz, KDNP, how important food security is. Let me give you another example in 2015, okay, so after tightening up the rules, which, by the way, is about falsifying fish. At first reading, the story was quite comical. Typically, different species of fish are described as different species of fish. The most affected types are Alaskan cod, sea bass and tuna. The latter is often replaced by a type called butterfish, which is otherwise particularly sensitive to the European stomach. In Hungary, before one of the major fish festivals, the office extracted almost 3.5 percent of this variety, so a serious amount that could have been used to poison the half of the event should have been left alone. And we do not see that the billions of fines will then fly. So there is a system of instruments, there is an organisation, but we see that this organisation could indeed live much harder with this sanctioning system. Let us not blame this solely for the mistake of the Nebih and his associates. There is a clear need for a government will to take matters in this direction. We miss this perfectly, because - I repeat once again - what we have ahead of us is the transposition of EU ideas, but our own idea is sorely lacking. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-18-108	I also give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-18-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I wanted to do was respond to the previous point. I'm sorry if I misunderstood. I did not object to Nébih's professional work, but that the merger and enlargement so far did not involve getting adequate extra capacity. If you don't have the right staff, if you don't have the resources for the checks, if you don't have the background to go out and do the checks, then there's nothing to do with the fact that the institutional background itself is available with a small number of people. It may even be that there is a company operating on a narrow professional basis. I merely referred to what I do regularly: the death of the law if not applied. It is basically a matter of creating such things in vain if we do not have the proper background to do all this. So today, I've suggested to the Secretary of State a few things to ask for money at government meetings. I think we can add this to the list, too, that we also need significantly greater resources to increase the Nébih implementation competences and enforcement capacities. So that's what I'm referring to, and I'm sorry if I misunderstood. Bye-bye... not bye-bye. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-110	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP, as a standard word applicant.
u2015-03-18-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, If it hadn't been for the lead speaker's speech, it would have been a bit of a bad taste in the mouth because the opposition said so, because that's what the opposition said in this thing, if they'd observed it, we'd say we could support it. We do not agree that this should only be examined in this range. We can agree with the points that say that the government should do this not by mirroring EU legislation, but by properly implementing them in Hungarian relations, in the Hungarian market, in Hungarian consumption patterns. But we can understand that this is what we have to settle for at the moment. Then we trust that in the next period, as Sallai R. Benedek said, before he said good-bye, that this should be a good foundation, and then the government should consider expanding it a little bit. But to make our common memory a little more accurate: Mr Pócs, we did not say that the retail chains would be ruined, the retail chains said. We said that when this relatively large amount was published in the budget, because if I remember correctly, we managed to raise the food safety fee from 6 to 6 percent, then we said two things. One is that there is always a service against the fee, even if it is the State that collects the fee, then the State has to set up a service. If there is no service against the fee, this will be validated in the price as a type of traffic tax, as soon as it is mandatory to pay and is clearly passed on by the retail chains. That's what we said, just so our memories of each other can say the same thing and keep us all informed. What we see now is that there is a kind of ambition, and that is why we will support the fact that, in contrast to this collected fee, which would otherwise be a huge extension of the Nabihet, we also said in the debate that probably all the veterinarians and labs who live and work in the country will now work for the Nabih, if they want to spend all this money. However, at least now we get a draft legislation on paper based on some kind of mirror translation, and on the contrary, we can expect a service against the fee. I think it's a good first step, but it's nothing more than that, in any case. As has already been said, it is the professional staff, infrastructure, resources and compliance with the legislation that I believe is necessary when the state is collecting huge money from this. Retailers obviously cut through and charge this fee at the price, so you can freely expect a service for it without further ado, and nothing happened for three months. Remember, before the adoption of the budget, you voted in favour of this award, it was among the foundation laws, but it was still not included in the budget during the Nebih. Twice or three times in the budget, you had to draw attention to the fact that you would collect a Nebih Prize, collect a food security fee, and this is still not in the proper course of the administration. In fact, for the third to fourth time, when we said it, we managed to pass this kind of prize at all and find the appropriate budget line. Now you're experimenting with what we asked of you at the time: assign a task, assign infrastructure, personnel and assign expertise to it and implement the law. That's a good first step. I only asked for the floor so that we could have the same memory. A little ahead of the horses, they run after him now; get their feet a little faster and make better rules. We will, of course, support this. Thank you for your attention. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-03-18-112	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-03-18-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to attach Mr Z. Carpathian to my fellow Member, Daniel. With regard to scandals, it is also quite talkative that names, actors who are no longer the first food industry scandal to appear at present come to the fore every year. According to our latest information, he was already involved in three previous cases. [[15.10]] Therefore, the relevant provisions of the Civil Code and the Criminal Code should be considered here, as to how it can be imagined that a person will fail once in a case of such a social problem, in such an area as this, even a life-threatening area, and then continue to do so for a lifetime. It is also a problem in such cases that it is often assumed that close government interests will arise if we do not think of anything else here, the re-packing scandals of CBA companies, when they tried to re-store expired foods. And speaking of the government's favorite food chain, there are also press reports that the traders who supply them - and here we are obviously not able to prove that they did so with or without the knowledge of the owners of the trading chain - are looking for farmers in the area of truffles, so that they are willing to move the pig stock they wish to take in advance that they do not ask for paper for 50 percent of the trade chain. So this is also related to this, because from now on these are already black-built animals, the processing and sale of which can easily be done in black. And while we're here, there's a problem that's not directly and closely related: the question of VAT. We can be the richest country in Europe or the world, so in the eyes of the outsider, because if we are able to pay such high VAT, we certainly are - but in reality we know that this is not the reason that there is such VAT in Hungary. If you think about it, take it seriously, think about it, and understand the consequences of this VAT, then we will also get to the point that food counterfeiting scandals would be much less common, and we should talk less about it if these criminal organizations were not interested in forging food. The GMO has also been mentioned on behalf of the Secretary of State, and I am very pleased about that. Because, as my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned, if this free trade agreement is reached between the European Union and the US, then it does not matter what you have drafted in the Fundamental Law. We fully agreed with that part, and the betterists said at each forum that preserving our GMO exemption is a key issue for Hungary, in all respects and in all aspects, food and health, and that we will fight to the last drop of our blood to ensure that this exemption is maintained. At the same time, in this debate, when the free trade debate took place in Parliament, we did not get a direct, clear answer to the fact that if this convention was signed, then what will be worth, even at the basic level, our alleged immunity and its declaration. This silence, or this misconception we experienced at the time, is a good chance that either you are not aware of the consequences of it, or you are aware of it, and it means that it will be worth nothing, not even the fundamental protection of the law. If it is a GMO, then I must mention what Krisztina Morvai and our MEPs have proposed out in Brussels, and it would be good for her to stand behind the government and help this fight to bring it through, finally, that food must be marked on a mandatory basis, in large letters, readable and well separated from other information, that it contains genetically modified organisms or not that particular food. In fact, we have gone further: we should make it possible to sell such products on a separate shelf in the European Union and let the consumer know from now on which product he will choose: which contains such ingredients or which is free of such ingredients. We have no illusions, we are well aware of the surveys, we know very well that GMO food in such a competition would be washed out of the market in a very fast way, and then we have not yet violated the great free trade worship that you and Brussels often represent in Parliament, so we have practically complied with the rules of the game. So I urge the Secretary of State to interpret this at the government meeting and to support the better Members of the European Parliament in this fight. This would be a great opportunity for the Hungarian food industry. Another thought about GMOs, Mr Secretary of State, let us be honest about it: there are serious disturbances in Hungary: unfortunately Hungary is not GMO-free. Of course, you can't grow it, the one or two attempts that were supposedly accidental on the part of these US-based multinational companies, were actually caught in time and pollution was prevented, and we acknowledge that, we are happy about that, but we eat GMOs every day. Technically, there is no meat product produced in Hungary - certainly not under large-scale conditions - that does not contain a GMO derivative, a plant such as, say, soya is the most typical example that would not be GMO. It is important to emphasise this here only so that we do not kid ourselves, there is a great deal of work to be done on GMO issues, even if, under the Fundamental Law, we will be able to prevent the GMO from being a free trade agreement, and we will not continue to allow it to enter public production in Hungary and its expansion will be achieved, there is still serious work to be done. Masses of protein crops should be replanted in our country that can provide our animals with a quality and quantity of protein that will then be able to replace GMO soya and other GMO products, even under climatic conditions. I know that it does not belong closely to the subject of this law, only the Secretary of State mentioned the GMO, and I thought it would be important to clarify here too that there is a great deal of work to be done in this area, even if we still have the chance of being able to clarify the issue at the basic level of law and preserve our immunity at this level. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-114	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-18-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Zoltán Magyar's comment inspired me to press for a two-minute period, because here he spoke for a very long time about the GMO exemption, which, of course, is supported by Fidesz and the government, and we put it in the Fundamental Law for a reason. Here, however, it has been wrongly said about the TTIP, so in the free trade agreement between America and the European Union, whether this can be overwritten at all. It was very strongly said here in the debate that both the Fidesz-KDNP faction and the government are committed to talking about whether the TTIP will be accepted by Hungary or ratified by Parliament if the GMO exemption is included. So if it is included in the TTIP that some countries or even Europe as a whole, but obviously this will not be the case, but some countries, namely Hungary, can maintain GMO-free status, and we also insist that they be displayed on food, at least on foods marketed in Hungary. Obviously, we are striving and our interest is that this is the case in Europe as a whole. The Hungarian government can't guarantee this, we will try, but in Hungary we can only talk about Hungary joining TTIP if the GMO-free is included, it is absolutely certain, and this is how it was said in the debate. Thank you. [[Happy Stephen applauds.]]
u2015-03-18-116	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes.
u2015-03-18-117	Thank you very much, Mr President, I just want to respond to this speech. In that debate, the government could not even tell who was going to be negotiating in Brussels, nor could it say who could possibly be called to account for our interests or what was said here in the House walls. From here on out, I find it strange that you're defending yourself with this. I'm so glad you did. I would like to add that I can now say that there is no way in this Convention that Hungary or any Member State can retain the GMO exemption or that it would be regulated at Member State level. Such a treaty has not yet been concluded by the United States, and I don't think it will be in the future. From this point on, however, it is quite worrying that the issue of arbitrations, which we have debated here for a long time, will bleed to death in Hungary in such an area. So I wouldn't be so optimistic. Let's look at what happened to Canada, Mexico, Australia, who have already made similar agreements with the US, all in different areas, but failed all similar cases. So what we have brought up there for a long time as an example in the debate, I don't want to repeat them, I just wanted to say that I don't know where this optimism is, because they couldn't even tell who was negotiating. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[15.20]]
u2015-03-18-118	I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian in a normal time frame.
u2015-03-18-119	Mr President, Dear House, I was just about to stab my fellow pro-government Members, and what a thing it is to have no one to argue with, and the good guys come up with more arguments one by one, to which no one responds. That is partly true, but we admit that they reacted somewhat to at least one suggestion, which is quite amazing. You were here on the Transatlantic Convention Debate Day. Shake hands with each other, sitting a few meters from each other: sitting next to you, not far from you is the man who said he would ask opposition representatives to support the Transatlantic Investment Agreement. There was no condition. But fortunately, it has now been said that you want GMO-free, this is very important, very good, but I ask the question: have you ever seen the agreement on food products signed by the United States of America that would have allowed for any similar provision? But I'll tell you an even tougher script. In the draft Transatlantic Convention, which we know about it at the moment, it is not only that the multinationals can bring their lawsuits to arbitration against the Hungarian State, or, let us say, they can force the investment in Verespataki in this way, but it is also included in the fact that it is possible to make different findings and rules subsequent to the basic agreement adopted, which do not necessarily need to be consulted by the Member States. So, where appropriate, you can sign a blank cheque that does not include the fact that our GMO-free will be compromised, but will be put in afterwards, but you will no longer have to ratify it. I don't want you guys rocking around in that fairy tale that you're not gonna ratify it if it doesn't. It's not gonna be in there. It won't even say that GMO litter is flooding Europe, but that's how it's gonna be in reality. In my view, a responsible politician should not even consider supporting this madness in his current form, since he has no measurable benefits. Here, only the lobbyists in Brussels spoke of minimal benefits, accounting annually for about a few tens of thousands of HUF per family, whereas on the other side there is a million possible losses of jobs in the European Union. You can't defend this treaty, so don't even try to get ahead of it so that if this and this are in it, you can sign it. It's indefensible! Those who sign this will commit the same treason as those who signed the Lisbon Treaty here in Parliament, in a coalition, Fidesz, MSZPs together. This will be the same unwashable sin. But to go into a little more peaceful waters and return to what is ahead: it is very important to talk about how we can examine whether the genetically engineered garbage in Hungary appears or not. In the previous cycle, an effective investigation has already been carried out, and it has also been found that the crop containing the ingredient in the area concerned has been dialed, and the problem has been solved there, but it is quite rightly said that at the level of feeding or food additives, the genetically modified ingredients are indeed here today on the shelves on the tables. To give one example, according to recent research, these are certain types of anti-caking agents; usually soya lecithin and its associates are listed here. Since the so-called regime change, these have been linked by recent research to the fourfold increase in the incidence of certain inflammatory types of intestinal diseases. Obviously, these are ongoing research, but they do suggest that there should be a much wider spectrum of the components that are going to be placed on the market. This would require an efficient, Hungarian-managed, independent laboratory system to restore as much as possible, as well as expansion and continuous strengthening. When there are several opposition forces here that advocate the need to widen the instruments of either the Nebih or the various authorities, then let us say the same in every budgetary debate that additional resources should be allocated here to achieve results that could be a minimum with our own laboratory system and effective action. But to mention one more very important point: 5. In addition to or between catering facilities - there is virtually a co-ordinated relationship here - within the meaning of the section on the establishment of additional new functions, this is a very right way, a very good way, there is only one thing we do not see. In 2010, we debated this in Parliament and agreed that as many local crops as possible should be fed to the public. If we look at the statistics for 2014 and 2015, we see that in four to five years there has been no breakthrough in this area. In conclusion, what is really embarrassing is that the Transatlantic Agreement, the transposition of the Brussels directives, can be shown in these few years as a very serious step forward, at the expense of Hungary, in my view, but this can be debated. The point is, they work in foreign witch kitchens. In Hungary, however, in the last four or five years, we cannot show tangible progress in strategic areas where we can move forward on our own. So, to include as much local production as possible in the public catering process, long-term contracts will be concluded, where appropriate, the Pick or other salami factory should not be forced to obtain meat from abroad into its product, but, with long-term contracts, Hungary will be able to provide the hinterland, it would be essential and expected. In four to five years, unfortunately, they have not been able to show enough in this area, let us say almost nothing. We are not counter fans, I would very much like to congratulate you on all the important steps, as I congratulate you on dialing out the GMO product this way, going back several years and beyond. All we have to do is say that we need to see that this is not enough. There has been no systemic change, and not only are Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises exposed to these international networks, but, unfortunately, Hungarian consumers, Hungarian citizens, and this is unacceptable. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-120	I now give the floor to Congressman János Pócs for a two-minute comment.
u2015-03-18-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Today, too, we have seen that there is only one thing that you can always think of that I regret. On this item, we are talking about food supervision, food safety, public catering and the safety of people. I do not understand how you are coming here, but as you have already pointed out, I would be happy to remind my fellow Members of what I said about the Transatlantic Convention. I have said to my fellow Members, highlighting the attention of my right-wing fellow Members, the deficit of democracy is that if there is a case that is not even worth discussing. At Jobbik, it's probably trendy to be a village, a song; when you have to hate something, you hate to hate something, you hate it out of guts without hitting arguments. In my speech, I would like to point out once again, if you have already pointed out on several occasions, I specifically asked for support for negotiations. I highlighted in my speech that under strict GMO conditions and strictly in the interests of Hungary. Once again, I have asked for the support of my fellow Members to carry out the negotiations. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-18-122	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes.
u2015-03-18-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am responding to my fellow Member, János Pócs. I fully agree with him, and we good people also believe that what cannot be negotiated is a sign of a democracy deficit. I therefore urge the Government to bring the national rural strategy that I have presented and the Kincsem National Horse Programme along with the logic that the pro-government Member has said to the House. Thank you very much for supporting with these arguments the importance of talking about these issues. Only because both documents were drawn up by Fidesz, the ruling parties. Another story is that these documents have been forgotten over the past few years. But it is just about time, and I am glad that my fellow Member Pócs underlined once again that we should talk again about these very serious and important problems, because I believe that the government does not want to run into a democracy deficit in this area. I also look forward to the support of Mr Secretary of State, because it is clear that on the part of the Fidesz Members that we have this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-124	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't think so. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] It says yes. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh has the floor.
u2015-03-18-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate, let me repeat that we really had to have a debate on the food chain and the law on official supervision. And although there really are links to EU legislation, this is because, dear Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, we are members of the European Union and because we are members of the European Union, and that is why, for example, your representative is there in that Parliament. So it should be decided that they are there, there are no, we should quit, we shouldn't quit... once again, it is important that we move them, and if we are a Member State, then we must transpose the legislation. [[15.30]] But this is the least... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Just not literally.]] - That's right, we're not doing it slavishly. The best example of this is the Hungarian position on GMOs. Minister Fazekas is consistently and methodically fighting for the European Union to be as much as possible GMO-free as possible in all its Member States. In this case, there is an event almost daily. I am sure that this is the case in which we can also establish a public agreement in our country, because we all feel the health risks that our fellow Members have spoken of. Well, I think it is necessary, for example, that all the detailed rules on GMOs should not be placed here, before the House, but that the Minister of Specialist should be subject to regulation. We are also preparing to determine what is a GMO-free product. Think of a chicken: if it goes to the store, is it GMO-free, if it has never eaten GMO feed, or if it is eggs? Or how far back do you want us to go? So this is a very, very important and in-depth issue. I'm not sure it's for the plenary session. All in all, thank you for your suggestions and, of course, we will accept your improved amendments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-126	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Next up is the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/3752. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor again to Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-18-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. The amendment of the Act was adopted by the Parliament at the end of the last year and entered into force on 1 January 2015. Following the entry into force, the comments received from the law enforcement authorities and some of the farmers concerned suggested that certain points in the Product Fee Act were not clear, which caused legal uncertainty among the debtors. In addition, some detailed rules need to be changed as a result of organisational changes in waste management. The purpose of the amendment tabled to the Honourable Parliament is to provide a solution to these problems. Thus, the legislative proposal includes clarification of the definition of office paper, since the scope of the Environmental Product Fee Act was extended from 1 January 2015, including the product scope of office paper. Clarification of the definition makes it easier to decide whether a particular product falls within the scope of the law or not. As you may know, the National Waste Management Agency is a Public Benefit Nonprofit Kft. By the end of January 1, 2015, the National Waste Management Directorate took over as the organisational unit of the National Directorate for Environmental Protection and Nature Protection. The National Waste Management Board shall receive budgetary support from the corresponding chapter management appropriations for the performance of its tasks. The proposal also aims to provide for the possibility of registering and managing in a separate account which is essential for the use of the aid in question. In this regulatory context, the budget support of the National Waste Management Directorate would be transferred to an account with the National Inspectorate for Environment and Nature. In view of the fact that the National Waste Management Directorate has concluded contracts for the purchase of services related to waste management under the responsibility of the awarded grants, payments would be greatly difficult, complicated by the joint management of accounts and hinders its transparency. In order to safeguard transparency and ensure smooth payments, I call on the Honourable Parliament to support this point of proposal. The purpose of the bill is to make the necessary adjustments for the precise identification of the electrical and electronic equipment subject to a product charge. Annex 1 to the Product Charge Act contains the description of the products covered by the Law, including the heading of the description, the Harmonised System subheading and the Combined Nomenclature subheading. For certain products, the name and the corresponding code number are inconsistent or inappropriate on the basis of the combined nomenclature in force on 1 January 2010, which makes it difficult to define precisely the products subject to the charge. The amendment removes any contradictions with the electrical and electronic products concerned, such as electromagnets, electrical controls or electricity distribution devices, or with laboratory measuring or checking electrical and electronic devices, and makes it clear to the defendants to delimit the products. I think it is important to point out that the amendment does not extend the range of products subject to product charges, but only facilitates their interpretation with the same legislative intention. Dear Parliament, I ask that, on the basis of the reasons given, the proposed amendment be discussed and then adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-18-128	The speeches will now be followed by the speakers, and here the speeches will be made by the lead speaker. That is why I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-18-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I think we agree that environmentally friendly thinking involves waste management, and we need to ensure that products, after they have been used and become waste, are used in the right way. Our country, I think, is at the forefront in this area, because since 1995 it is required by law to pay a product fee for the first marketing of certain products that are environmentally risky in Hungary or for their own use. This is an important incentive to reduce the environmental burden. The products concerned, as my fellow Members know, are batteries, packaging and other packaging materials, other petroleum products, electrical and electronic equipment, tyres, advertising paper and other plastic products, other chemical products and office paper from 2015. In 2011, the product fee system was completely re-regulated by the government. The 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV entered into force on 1 January 2012. law and the government decree implementing it aims to encourage prevention and reuse, in line with the Waste Act. The new regulation, as we know it, has abolished a number of legal institutions allowing for the non-payment of previous product fees, such as exemptions, discounts and deductions. One hundred percent of the system for the recovery of waste generated from products subject to product charges was taken over by a state-owned public waste management intermediary. These amendments were necessary because in the field of the collection and recovery of waste, the State has the ultimate responsibility, because if it fails to comply with partly domestic and partly international standards and commitments, the State is obliged to comply with them. This is only possible if the State takes over the rights and obligations that provide control and takes on the necessary tasks and responsibilities. In other words, the State is also interested in governance and control in addition to the obligation to perform. [[15.40]] Based on the government policy objectives announced in 2010, fundamental changes have been made in the field of environmental protection and waste management, including environmental product tariff regulation. I want to sum up the results in a few thoughts. Thus: the multi-player state-supervised coordinator system was introduced; the tax morale improved by changing the subjective and material scope of the Environmental Product Fee Act; the actual product fee obligations decreased by about 50 thousand; the exemptions and unjustified benefits were eliminated; the flat-rate product fee system was adapted to the actual emission levels; the administrative obligations were reduced; the budget gained significant additional revenue, the product fee revenues increased from HUF 19-21 billion to HUF 48-56 billion until 2011-2013, while the sector's performance was not reduced; last but not least, the enforcement of producer responsibility is much more pronounced in the regulation. At the same time, on the basis of the experience gained since the entry into force of the environmental product tariff regulation, in the application of the law, further changes are deemed necessary to simplify the system and to create the necessary conditions for achieving the EU's waste management obligations, which is also the purpose of the proposal before us. As Minister of State has said, it contains clarification to assist in the application of the law, which means that, on the one hand, it sets out definitions, the aim of which is to receive budget support for the performance of the tasks of the public waste management intermediate organisation from the chapter-based appropriation for which it is essential to register and manage the aid in a separate account; and, on the other hand, the third important point, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is to remedy the contradictions in the designations and code-code classifications. I think that our success with the introduction of the environmental product prize is also strengthened by the proposal that we are now facing, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-18-130	I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-03-18-131	Thank you very much for the floor. The MSZP did not support the original 2011 amendment on the product fee - which was still linked to the name of Zoltán Illés, who has already criticized you enough - because it resulted in such a bad regulation and an excessive administration for businesses. To address the problems of this regulation, only a completely new law would be a solution. Since then, it has been proven that the government has only sought to lay the foundations for an unreasonable system of collection of money through the regulation of the product fee, and in recent years, unreasonable measures such as the tax on soap taxes, shampoo taxes, solar panels and gas boilers have been introduced. While the proposal expands the range of products charged with the environmental product fee, it seems that despite the HUF 63 billion environmental product fee planned for 2015, the government does not use even a quarter of the revenue received to support the domestic waste management system. Then, in vain, by increasing this amount, it is better for the waste management system if they do not spend the money on what they have collected, but we have said this to you many times on this issue. Thus, the system, which has been affected by the reduction of costs, the depositing levy and the growing economic problems, is a major problem for settlements throughout the country. It is a well-known fact that, in hundreds of Hungarian settlements, disaster management is now carrying out waste disposal, and it is also a fact that losses are now occurring from Nyíregyháza to Mosonmagyaróvár at non-profit providers managing waste. As we told you in the chimney sweep, the big problem is that you're about to leave everything to disaster control. We saw years ago in March how well they were doing, but they also didn't have any extra money, and disaster protection is slowly doing everything from shipments of waste to chimney sweeps to firefighting. Gentlemen, this amendment of the law is again unacceptable to the MSZP. Thank you.
u2015-03-18-132	I give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-18-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The environmental product fee regime was established at the time with the aim of ensuring that products containing either ingredients that may be harmful to the environment after the product has become waste, or that, due to their quantity, they constitute a large amount of waste that requires separate treatment or makes it particularly costly to manage them, a financial basis for these. In recent years, it can be seen that this objective has not been achieved, that environmental product tariff regulation is constantly being amended and adapted year after year, always subject to current budgetary or other objectives, as has already been said by my former MSZP fellow Member, used as a kind of fundraising industry or method to increase tax revenues. For us, therefore, this way is no longer eligible. It is not eligible because, while product fee revenues are increasing and higher, we do not see much improvement in waste management and, in particular, in the treatment of hazardous waste; in Hungary, waste management in general as a sector is in a rather critical situation. In recent years, what has already been affected by the amendments that have been put in place since 1 January 2015 is that the government has also imposed an environmental product charge on products that specifically serve environmental objectives. I am talking here about renewable energy production equipment, specifically photovoltaic elements, solar panels, which is nonsense, because if basically an environmental product fee - it is already included in its name that it should serve environmental objectives - how does the government think that it will impose on products that, although they do contain dangerous components, the aim would be to spread them as much as possible, to buy and install these equipment as many as possible, to impose additional fees, taxes and product charges on these products. The VAT content alone is enough to prevent people from buying these equipment, but if the environmental product fee finds out about it and other charges are found, it is a certain condition or reason that these renewable energy production equipment should not spread in Hungary. This is apparent, I think, because it is enough to start in any direction from Hungary now, in every country we find almost more and more renewable energy recovery equipment, whether solar cells, wind wheels, windworks or other renewable energy production equipment. [[In the notary seat, the gullible Dezső will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] This is a big problem because in energy strategy debates, they always tell us, every time, what a great shortage there is and an even greater shortage of energy generation capacities in Hungary in decades, which could be replaced most by energy efficiency investments and renewable energy production equipment, beyond the fact that large power plants are needed, thousands of megawatts of built-in power plants such as Paks Nuclear Power Plant and other power plants. This is not an energy strategy debate, and I have just mentioned this because the Environmental Product Fee Act has also started in a direction that is moving in a direction that is not only designed to protect the environment, but is slowly setting objectives that are contrary to it. There are different interests, different economic backgrounds and financial groups in the interests of the government in recent years, and we do not want to assist in this, as we have never done before. At this moment, we are talking about a technical amendment, as already mentioned in the Minister of State's exposé, but such a debate, when a product fee law comes before the House, always gives us an opportunity to talk about the law in a broader sense, and not only - in a detailed way - we are discussing the specific sections or any amendments to be submitted to it, but we should talk about why it would be good if the environmental product fee really served to reduce waste streams. [[15.50]] Unfortunately, we also say here at waste that it is obviously the best waste that is not produced, which we prevent. Prevention is the best method, so the amount of environmental product fees or other environmental charges or taxes should be used as much as possible to prefer, support, and develop methods of prevention at government level, at legal level, because we are slowly covered by a waste sea, and this is true not only for Hungary, but also for mankind, which is growing slowly over 7 billion. We need to do something about this problem, whether it's material recovery or energy recovery, and in the end, we should just talk about dumping it. These hierarchy and strategic steps must always be pursued and the first and highest levels of prevention should be given greater emphasis. It is also because, in fact, we are talking about advertising paper, which is also subject to environmental product fees or to the environmental product fee law, or even other packaging materials, which are now produced in quantities, in order of magnitude, which are already affecting and hindering everyday life. I mean, whenever we go home, we open up our mailbox, there's a lot of different advertising materials and flyers coming out of it, without which we could make a lot of money, and I haven't seen a change in that since the product fee bill came out. Wherever it was supposed to be, it was clearly designed to contain some of the proliferation of these unnecessary advertising materials. I really don't think it's a good direction, and I don't see the purpose of the law for equipment containing hazardous waste either. In most places, while I am talking about, say, residential hazardous waste, we are still at the basic problem of this household waste, whether I can talk about batteries, batteries or various liquid hazardous wastes, chemicals that are produced in households; obviously, the latter category does not belong, but let's say, electrical, electronic equipment, small-scale, mobile phones, anything else. 'Cause they just don't know where to take it, so they don't know where to drop it off. Or, let's talk tires, paint, I could tell you, expired-end-of-life drugs that can be made in a household of dangerous waste. And in many settlements, even to this day, people are either not informed, or there is no suitable place where they can deliver this, where they can take these waste away from them. So they end up in communal waste, and so they really damage the environment, and indeed none of these pieces should end up in landfills. So I think that if we are talking about the environmental product fee and we want to restore the original function of the environmental product fee, we really need to present a whole new law here to the House, which would bring back a spirituality somewhat close to the original spirit, or even more effectively and more effectively, the protection of the environment, paragraphs, sections for environmental purposes, and targets. By the way, any proposal that brings us closer to this goal will be assisted at any time, and we will ensure our vote at any time. However, in a wrong direction, environmental product fee regulation has been turned in a negative direction, which is used to patch some kind of safari or tax collection, collection of funds, budget holes, we cannot assist. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-134	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-03-18-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I have not consulted the leaders of the opposition groups, but I can broadly agree with the speeches, and I can actually say that this whole legislation is wrong. I don't want to hurt the Fidesz, but I believe in Hungarian society so much that I think that there will never again be as many people in Parliament as there are now, and if there is no one now who understands what the green tax system was designed for, it won't even be later. That is why I thought that I would now share this with Mr Secretary of State, and then at the government meeting it would be possible to represent it, so that someone in Fidesz could understand that this was not designed to create new faces, but to create resources for dealing with problems, but for the green tax system created in the environment and nature conservation system, which is used around the world, it is an incentive system, designed to encourage consumer behaviour, with the revenue from this incentive. For this reason, I believe that the transformation of the product charging system was one of the worst legislative acts in the last five years of the Orbán Cabinet, although there is very close competition. Nevertheless, I dare say that this is very unfortunate. I know, by way of private conversation, that you have an environmentally friendly attitude, so I'm asking you, if you want to decide in a business that, say, I want to buy a green repaper or a product made of a noble poplar, installed, chlorinated, so any traditional paper production, we're going to help you move towards the environmentally friendly one. Obviously, there would be a regulatory instrument to help one of them access to the market, which is being consumed by more people, and the other one to be subject to a tax at some level in order to reduce the environmental risks created by it. The same is true for a washing powder in the current regulation as to the difference between a phosphate-free or a traditional washing powder if it is the same product fees. At the moment, this regulation is not a green product fee, because whether we are talking about a repaper or a traditional paper technology or a phosphate-free detergent, or a traditional detergent, it uses the same product charges. This implies that this is completely stupid and bad regulation, which does not encourage consumers to engage in a more environmentally friendly approach. You could go through all the technologies, from light bulbs to all these specific examples that have a waste-inducing effect, what is desirable, what is undesirable. If the government needed some environmental awareness, it would obviously do what it would do, in the direction it wants to push Hungarian society, to help it improve its chances of getting to the market, not burden it with taxes, and perhaps start charging the other with green taxes. This is actually, in a very simple way, that would be it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But there is still a clause, namely that green taxes are designed to reduce the environmental burden and promote green consumer behaviour from the sources collected. If these resources do not return to the goal of transforming general consumer behaviour and creating an opportunity to create a much greener and more environmentally friendly thinking in society, then this is really nothing more than what the opposition representatives before me have said, this is a smooth cut-off. It's a new transmitter. Therefore, this system is for budgetary purposes, which should serve a fully green consumer behaviour. The bill was, of course, called the environmental product fee legislation, although it is not for this purpose. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State understands that I myself am somewhat ironic about such things, because practically half the world has laughed at us about solar panels or green taxation of heat pumps, because putting environmental product charges on products that would be desirable in terms of environment and nature conservation, is obviously something that a significant part of the civilised world accepts with some smile. [[16.00]] A complete overhaul of the product charging system would be necessary, a revision of this entire legislation, and it would be necessary to ensure that all products and consumer products which impose any environmental burden on society, the management of which entails extra burdens, and the additional expenditure, are subject to a much higher rate of product charges, while those whose consumption we want to increase, while, as far as possible, there is no such charge. The interesting thing is that it has nothing to do with environmental protection and nature protection, but I heard on the radio that one of the ministers from their government said that they would want to help the spread of electric cars in Hungarian society even by reducing VAT. Interestingly, the VAT reduction as an environmental tool to switch to a more favourable technology in terms of emissions, they want to use VAT for this, while they do not want to use the environmental product fee for what it is for. So that's what shows that they don't actually understand the system of what they're up to. Obviously, in the course of the complete transformation, it is necessary to reconsider how all these technologies can be helped to reach the market, in this connection my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, has just tabled an amendment in order to eliminate the tax on products that hit solar panels and heat pumps. This draft, which was presented to the Committee on Sustainable Development, has obviously been swept off by the pro-government majority that this is not necessary. Then my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, said that, if this is not necessary, we should at least do it so that we can charge a product price for nuclear waste associated with a high environmental burden, which is associated with handling costs. They also said it wasn't necessary. So, in practice, Fidesz's behaviour shows that what is environmentally stressful, which is a high risk, we should help, and what should be, to get to people as much and more widely as possible in the consumer society, to help the use of renewable energy sources, and we are trying to prevent them with a product fee, so let's put them at a disadvantage on the market. The main problem is that it does not help to overcome these market disadvantages in any way. If the technology of a repaper takes into account the surplus of collection and processing costs, then it is clear that the production of these is something extra than traditional paper. If, for this reason, one is sold more expensively and the other is charged cheaper and the same product fee, then the consumer will never choose what would be the greener solution in life. This should be the case for the product fee and this should be the case for this regulation. We have before us this really rabbit's tail of small amendment and clarification, which you would simply think you wouldn't have to argue about, but define office paper. Without distinguishing how that paper was produced, with what environmental burden, what else can be done afterwards; there is virtually no environmental aspect to this. It's another payoff for the state to collect taxes, if possible, in places where it hasn't collected yet, and now you're figuring out that it would be nice to tax as many things as possible. So overall, we cannot agree with this amendment on product fees, nor can we agree with the legislation itself. With the fact that there is a product charging system for solar cells and heat pumps this year, we do not particularly know very, very well, and we believe that a large part of these measures are in stark contrast to what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has repeatedly said in Parliament. For the first time today, I would like to ask you with great respect that, if there is a way, you should answer me, please, so that I can respond again, because if you say something, then it may be more difficult for me to give you an answer, because there are a number of points in here that might raise professional questions that I would be happy to answer. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-18-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I warmly welcome all of you on the occasion of our reunion, and on the other hand, I will also make an announcement by the end of the speech. It would now be possible to speak with independent representatives if the independent Members were interested in the subject; and from here it would be possible to speak for two minutes. At the moment, I see no one who wants to live with this, but Secretary Zsolt V. Németh has asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-18-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Environmental Product Award Act now really gives us the opportunity to talk about the law as well, because everyone, if they hear that environmental product awards, will certainly not question their commitment to the environmental issue, but will think of all the things they believe to be necessary to protect nature. When this law was drafted, it was in the preamble to contribute to the prevention, reduction of pollution, but also to the creation of financial resources, to help meet the environmental standards set by EU waste management legislation for our country and for market participants. I do not want to bypass the element that has been mentioned by several people, Mrs Anita Heringes, for example, that we are spending a fraction of the environmental product fee we receive on recycling waste, but I dare say that, as you interpret the environmental product fee broadly, let me interpret the use of this framework in a broad sense, because I firmly state that the sixty or a few billion come to environmental protection at the last penny. On the one hand, the state maintains its institutional system itself, but if we look at the support that can be used through EU funds and for which domestic co-financing must be ensured, then it is certainly so. For the operational programme on environmental and energy efficiency itself has 300 billion for this purpose, energy efficiency and renewable energies; but otherwise, the operational programme on economic development provides a credit line and provides support of 70 billion forints; about 100 billion for the rural development programme is a renewable one-third of the rural development programme that serves the environment. But in a narrower sense, the environmental product prize, with which I sometimes think that it's just his name. Because such taxes, as they say, have green taxes elsewhere. They also collect products in Western Europe, they call it a licence fee, and it serves to recycle when a product becomes waste, so that NGOs collect this licence fee; but there is also a similar fee to mention not only Western Europe, but also, say, the Czech Republic, and to get to this symbolic element, solar element, for example, EUR 0.34 in Hungary, almost as much as the product fee in Hungary. So once again, I say that there is a product prize for solar cells elsewhere, for example in the Czech Republic. Because the relevant EU legislation, the Directive on electrical and electronic equipment, defines precisely the extent to which products in this product range, including consumer electronics as well as solar panels, should be collected by the country, to which extent they should be recycled, in relation to the year in which they are traded and to which they have become waste. These recovery rates are increasing, and regardless of the purpose of the product's life cycle, this should be collected and used, which costs money. The question is, who's gonna pay for this? Whether the person whose house they put this item on or the person who doesn't pay it on taxes should pay it. Also pay for the heat pump, who will never have this modern heating, and not necessarily for middle or lower-class people, or for everyone. So that's a decision to make. The other thing is when to pay for this. Of course, when the product is placed on the market, because when this is removed from the scope of use, the manufacturer is already inaccessible, because this responsibility is otherwise given to the manufacturer by EU law, and this is taken over by the Hungarian State in the law. It is therefore pointless to bring the nuclear power plant here, because there is a clear state responsibility, and the Hungarian state will be there in 30, 50 and 100 years, as opposed to a player in the for-profit sector. Why do we levy taxes for such a purpose, they should be taken out, you say. But there are a lot of products that can be used in such an area. I'll give you an example. The acidic battery of a hybrid car is a product subject to a product charge. If I put the same battery in a petrol truck or a diesel truck, it's harmful if it's in the other one, isn't it? Should we ask that at the store? Or the tire of the electric car, we don't pay for it when it's on an electric car, but we pay for it when it's somewhere else? [[16.10]] The same type can be used for geothermal energy at a well serving a mineral water-tanking plant, or for the transfer of sewage, or in another location. So we can't isolate this, we could start pecking these elements, but there wouldn't be a coherent system. So I would like to ask Mr President and those who have spoken in this regard to adopt this kind of logic, not some kind of evil. So I'm gonna say again that if we used this to spread renewables, it would be ineffective. This is so small in scale, 2 per cent for example in a solar cell, 5 per cent on the material itself, but it has to be incorporated, so for an investment it is of insignificant magnitude, and almost without exception it comes with public or European Union support, and this is the element that we encourage in hundreds of billions of HUF, even once. Indeed, the bill now introduces only rationalisations, clarifications, and here I accept the criticisms that we should not often amend a law, but I would also mention legislation in the field of rural development, because I am able to follow it through. Many times, the same professional organisations to whom we sent the relevant legislation and approved it, they suggested two months after its entry into force that this was left out. There should be an incredible amount of knowledge for the legislator, which, I must say, should not extend to details. Anita Beringes used this opportunity to mention the soap tax once it was sunbathing. We also said several times that he raised 1 forint at about the cost of a soap. Mr President, Mr President, you have mentioned how we promote environmentally friendly products, such as the green mark. The office paper itself came into this circle in order not to be printed, for example, not to have as much paper as it is in front of me right now; people should not print out the information that is transmitted by electronic means, so we should try to keep our customers conscious in this way. After all this, I will, of course, at the end of it, but I am pleased, as Mr President has asked, that I have been able to say these few points. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-18-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. I can give Congressman Sallai R. Benedek the opportunity to comment for two minutes, so that after his regular speech, László Szakács has the opportunity to comment again. [[Sallai R. Benedek: I'll wait for Mr. László Cook. Thank you very much.]] Okay, thank you very much. Then a two-minute comment will be made by Congressman Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I fully understand what you are saying, Mr Secretary, about how to encourage the spread of these renewable energy equipment. In itself, what kind of car we use a battery in, electric, hybrid car or regular petrol car doesn't change how environmentally harmful it is, that's a fact and true. However, the incentive is that certain products, although otherwise falling within the scope of the law, but because they serve an environmental purpose in themselves, are excluded from the law and thus make their spread more favourable or more attractive. The same could be true either for reducing VAT or for other tax incentives or other advantages that would further encourage their spread. Because, indeed, as a waste, it requires the same treatment as a battery from a normal petrol or diesel car, when it comes to the same type of battery, but the purpose for which it is used still requires a certain distinction. If it benefits more by operating in an electric car and, let's say, reducing urban air pollution, then it is worth considering removing it from the scope of the Product Charge Act; and while waste management requires the same procedure as other types of waste, we say that the government or the central budget contributes to making it more, easier to spread, whether electric cars, solar panels, hybrid cars or any other means of protecting the environment. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then it is up to Member László Szakács of the MSZP Group to give a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I asked for the floor because here we have to refer again to the debate of the laws establishing the budget, where we have also repeatedly said that we are now coming in with a new tax, which has gone into the common language as a soap tax, shampoo tax or solar tax. I understand Mr. Secretary of State's attitude and explanation that we only raised it with one forint, because it is only 2 percent in terms of solar cells, yet I say that this is 2 percent more plus 1 forint than it has been before. If we take that into account, and I am merely paying attention from a budgetary point of view, and not for professional and deep professional reasons, as you have already said, we must also see that a quarter of this is not being spent on it. I had a debate with one of your representatives on this, where I asked him that these are excellent goals that he is saying, and obviously there is no one who cannot agree that waste management is a pledge of the future, starting from the protection of the water bases to the preservation of our own living environment, obviously we all have to have a priority goal, so why are we actually spending only a quarter of it on waste management procedures? I see and feel that we are in the same debate as we are in the previous law, that we are making legislation on resources earlier, and that we are already imposing this kind of tax, and then we will try to fill it with content later. The previous one was not so successful as it was able to translate EU legislation in almost mirror translation. This, I think, is even less, because we still do not get an explanation of what is happening to the remaining three quarters of this tax imposed, with usque HUF 45 billion apart from the fact that it is being swept up by the budget, and then we do not know what is happening to it, what it supports, whether it supports or supports the objectives that I believe this law or the conservation objectives would in any way support. What we do see, however, is that there is an indiscretion, there is a $45 billion unexplained cost burden, and what we see in this is that life is passing by. I am pleased that there are already such deep professional debates in Parliament - and I apologize to everyone, I do not want to say cynically - about the lithium battery in which car there is; these are professional debates, which I think it is okay for the political decision-making body to know, but if that is not what the debate is about in Parliament, that is okay. However, if, in addition, the world passes by and for ten years it took to build regional landfill sites, which are almost immediately full in nearly three to four years, we do not move forward in the field of recycling as much as this kind of challenge requires of us... - we always say the example that if someone had gone out to buy before, 15 to 20 years ago, then how much communal waste has been created from the packaging materials he brought home. If someone goes shopping and buys the same products, how much more, whether in cubic meters or in pollution, how much more waste is generated in everything else! I believe that if the government wants to collect taxes on these products at all costs, then I think that there is still a gap there, even in relation to those European Union countries to which the Secretary of State referred, Mr No, especially, is more Western EU countries, where we think there is a way to proceed in this respect in terms of recycling, waste management or dealing with these situations. [[16.20]] Of course, it's weird to get another tax in the spirit of reducing the rent. Allow me, for a moment, to return to another agenda for a misunderstanding with regard to the reduction of the rent for a sentence, Mr President. I read the Fidesz announcement, they probably misunderstood what we said about the chimney sweep. We said that we were in favour of this being free. What we don't support is that you nationalize it, because in the end, it's gonna be like it's gonna be with education and hospitals, and it's not gonna work any better with these things. I think that here, too, the new tax received under the terms of the reduction of the rent, three quarters of which we do not know what it is going to do, is not eligible, even if the scope of this is broadened. In fact, I think that we should argue here whether there is a strategy, whether there is an idea covering the country, whether there is a comprehensive vision for the country's future for at least 5 to 10 to 15 years in the medium term, which refers to the fact that these amounts must now be collected. The world is moving around, most of the world is moving around, from IT waste through hazardous waste to the treatment of those currently under a very deep professional debate and the pace at which we intend to implement them and where. I believe that this is Parliament's concern. I am also glad that we are discussing the quality of batteries a little bit, but perhaps this kind of strategic thinking should be done. Once again, we see, as before, there was the law establishing the budget, where you voted in favour of collecting this money, which is necessary to balance today's Hungarian budget, the 2015 Hungarian budget. We'll see if it keeps you in balance. Now they're trying to fill it with some content that we're having a hard time supporting because we don't see where it leads. The money's already being collected, but they don't know exactly what they're trying to make of it. That is why we will not support this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-18-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, when the round goes down, there is only room for a two-minute speech. It is now time for Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-03-18-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr State Secretary very much for taking part in the debate and for the opportunity to engage in a dialogue. I think it's the 1st. § (1) (b) shall be the sixth word, and shall be carried out in the detailed debate, but I, if I do not hold up very much with this, do need to understand ideologically what Fidesz would like. The LMP has a vision of what the country should look like. We know very little about Fidesz. What we see is that it is going on different paths, one way to agree with, the other way to agree, but what is its vision for the future of the country, we have learned very little about it. This is obviously important on this subject because if we are to engage in a professional dialogue on what green taxation means, what it means to be an environmental product fee, and if you say, Mr State Secretary, that it has been translated into environmental protection, then it is also necessary to define what is environmental protection and whether it has actually been translated into it. Because if most of these activities and spending money are simple pipe end money - so there's a chimney, soot comes out, people drown, and I'm not doing it to stop soot coming out, but I'm putting on one of these filters first, then another filter, the production of them... - it's all pipe end stuff, just like waste disposal. My fellow Member Kepli has already agreed a little professionally that the prevention of waste would obviously be good, then recycling in his material, and here comes the vision of Fidesz about this, how he imagines the future of the product fee system, the various materials that create Hungarian waste. Do you have, say, a vision like that, anyone in Fidesz talk about bringing back the returnable glass system? There is a European example of this, it can be done, PET bottles must be withdrawn. It happened here in front of our eyes in the last 15 years, when the water flowed from the tap, it was healthy, good water, and then they changed society to buy water from a bottle, but everything else has to be taken from a PET bottle. Is there a vision of what will happen to this, how it will be handled? I know what the LMP's vision is, because I know how good our milk bottles would look, where we'd go, but I can't see the Fidesz. And after I don't see the vision, I don't know what this legislation wants to do. If the vision of Fidesz is how good the PET bottles and Tetra Pak are, because that can be very good, then obviously this regulation is good. But what we think about the future of Hungary is how, let's say, how consumption and consumer habits should develop, we think that the environment is not when we put the filter on the chimney, but when we prevent them from forming. Whether we are talking about waste or energy or something, there is this approach everywhere, how to prevent these problems from occurring. I do not want to discuss with Mr State Secretary what source and how we will deal with the environmental burden that has been created, but it would be good if we agreed on how to prevent these burdens, so that we do not have to provide resources for treatment, we do not have to transfer the costs of this to society, and so on. If, at the moment, the use of these costs or the use of these revenues is not for prevention, then it does nothing but give such a small conscience patch, that we have actually served environmental protection by putting a product fee on it, but it has not helped this system, and it has not helped to create a way to market soft drinks in Hungary in a convertible glass system; that Tetra Pakot, which can be practically barely recycled, or with very complicated technology, is withdrawn from circulation and we try to replace it with someone else; what to do with PET bottles. So the vision of this should be helped. And the fact that the world is complicated, and they've inherited all the trouble, and I'm sure in eight years the MSZPs have done a lot of trouble, I can't accept that because in the last five years, we've had the chance to do that, and with this product fee regulation that's connected to you, it would have been to serve this vision. Practically anything can be done in the country. Hungarian society has given you the opportunity to do so with great authority. Legal background, what I allow, what I forbid, tax policy, and here we are talking about product fees, what I'm going to tax, and let's say, support policy, what I want to help. It is indeed the direction to put solar cells or heat pumps in each household, because that would be the goal of bringing society together, not being very poor and very rich, but building a strong citizenship. Previously, during the first Orbán Cabinet, this was a specific purpose of Fidesz, which we hear less from the second Orbán Cabinet, what will become of civilization and what will become of the middle layer. This is a problem because, obviously, the Secretary of State is aware of this as an experienced politician that it is possible to set an example for everything and it can be the opposite of everything. Is it funny to mention the Czech Republic because it knows another EU country where it has one? I don't know anything else, but I might have one. I went to Google to find out what was going on, and there's nothing else I can do. It is used differently everywhere, and therefore this pattern is a little strange. In the same way, we have been able to say about the recycling system of waste, how good it would be if we encouraged it not to produce unsolicited, preventable packaging materials. According to Eurostat data, the rate of recycling in Hungary decreased in 2012 as well, in 2013 as well, and in 2014 it is added to the figure that Hungary will not be able to meet the 2016 level of the EU commitment. Obviously, these product award rules have an impact on this. If I tried to put the product fee significantly more, significantly more money and more burden on products that are undesirable in Hungarian consumption and consumer culture, which generate a lot of non-usable waste, then the background would be different. This question is very important because somewhere someone always pays for it. Where I live, and my fellow Member is here right now, the huge landfill built from various EU sources is called a two-poo landfill, for which there are a lot of European or very many examples in Hungary, the typical examples of how incredible money costs, what amazing public resources and public money should be used to create systems that otherwise add to the problem. All of these, where it must be established, in the way you said, Mr Secretary of State, will only create another and another problem. It is important that this product fee should be good, that this one-sided regulation should be calmly withdrawn by the government, and that we rethink the whole thing, and that the government should calmly submit it. You don't have to come here in opposition. Just think again about the products that generate a quantity of waste that will be very, very expensive to manage with a new use of public money. This legislation does not address this, and this does not help to strengthen more environmentally friendly consumer behaviour in Hungary. There would be a much greater need for green tax on products that are heavily burdened by the environment, and full abandonment would be necessary for those that I would like to facilitate consumption. If the Secretary of State fancies the Hungarian future in a way that allows people to use as much as possible re-paper as possible, they can consume as much glass and refundable bottles as possible, and I could give more examples, or as much of the Hungarian society as possible access to solar panels and heat pumps, then they should not be taxed, but they should be subject to heavy taxes on those that are in opposite market situations and may have a step advantage. [[16.30]] This regulation should serve this purpose. In practice, it is against the rules and, obviously, this is why we do not feel eligible. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-18-144	Thank you, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-18-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, it is very uplifting to take part in this debate or to listen to this debate, because all my fellow Members are expressing their commitment and bearing witness to it, which means that it is important for them to preserve the state of the environment and to promote environmentally sound equipment and products. At the same time, I keep feeling that we don't understand each other and that we talk side by side. I see, more and more, that the statement by the true Secretary of State that the name may be a mistake; that is, that we are talking about an environmental product fee, because this name, as it directs the product, focuses on the beginning of the life cycle, while the regulation regulates the end of the life cycle. It therefore talks about waste management and recovery with waste generated from products subject to product charges. So what I am sensing is that my fellow Members expect things from this proposal or from this law that is not in it. That is why I think what Mr Secretary said about the name being a mistake. Indeed, it will become a reality here, because there are so many questions in the debate, which, of course, relate to the subject, because there is a lot to environmental protection and environmental protection, but it is not regulated in this law. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Lajos Kepli, from the Jobbik Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I feel like the Fidesz is a little bit in the past, and the LMP is a little bit in the future here in terms of environmental issues, and actually, decisions have to be made in the present. On the one hand, end-of-pipe technologies, on the other hand, are often still priceless or insufficiently used, whether renewable energy or other technologies that have not yet developed to such a level today or to this day that they could be used to such an extent. The two are not exactly opposite to each other, but we have to live with the two here in the present, and we have to make decisions in such a way that both the environmental damage accumulated over the past decades is a first priority, and that, in the future, as my fellow Member Sallai has said here, we will try to replace the resulting waste, so that it does not occur at all, and it can obviously be defined as a goal and a theoretical goal, but in reality it will never be like this. We live in a consumer society, with all the disadvantages. Wastes will always be produced, dangerous waste too, unfortunately it seems that they will need to be replaced in an increasing proportion, but of course they should not be forgotten, as I say, during the past decades, about environmental damage, the elimination of pollution and the management of waste that is currently being generated today. Therefore, it is not the only way that we are going to impose an environmental product fee on the waste generated here, and that we are really turning it back into their recovery, or that we are trying to prevent both the production of polluting energy and the production of waste, because the energy that has not been produced is the best, most efficient energy, and that waste that has not been generated obviously has the least environmental impact and the lowest cost of managing it. So we should keep that in mind and live in the present. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2015-03-18-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek is next for two minutes.
u2015-03-18-149	Thank you very much, so I can respond to two things at once. I say to my fellow Member Kepli that I did not mention technology that we do not have and do not have in the present. I am curious to say that, for example, the Waste Work Federation in the mid-1990s, towards the end, created a competition on what is the oldest production of existing Coke bottles. They were still on the market at the time, the year was always at the bottom: the year 68 was still in circulation in the second half of the 1990s. So it's not about feeding such futuristic things, it's about the packaging industry practically taking the weight of the whole thing. Why can't they be improved? I'm talking about green repaper. So that's not the point of saying things that don't involve science. Spanish wax doesn't have to be invented. We need to find out where we want to go. Practically business, business interests lie behind the packaging industry, that's what it's all about, it's a big business, because everything needs to be packed. The good thing is, if you have to wrap it up more than once and put it in a plastic bag first, and even buy a plastic bag. So it would be necessary to put an end to this. In the other part, I wanted to say to Mrs Mónika Bartos that there are two ways to approach this matter. One of the approaches is that we are wrong about this, it is not a green tax, it is not an environmental incentive, because we can approach it because it cannot serve this purpose. I take note of that, if that is not your aim, and then the name is just wrong, and it is not really about environmental or non-product products. But then the other goal is to finance life-cycle housing, storage and disposal costs, which, due to its scale, is not suitable, because so much money does not come in to deal with all the problems. So there are two things we can do: either say that we are doing additional things, and that we can do it either in the form of VAT or whatever, that there is enough money, and then we will make budget revenue; or we will say that we are doing green taxes, but then it must focus on that purpose. That doesn't suit any of the goals at the moment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-18-150	Thank you very much. The truth is, if there's no proper speaker, I can't give you two minutes. I can give you a proper speech at the moment. Mr Lajos Kepli, from the Jobbik Group, is next.
u2015-03-18-151	Thank you very much. I can say the same in a normal speech, and I would like to say the same thing, only to respond to Mr Sallai, so that he does not remain unanswered. Here we can talk about packaging, because we have now moved on to that, but obviously, packaging is also a product subject to a product charge. He was talking about Coke bottles. I think it's a pretty striking example that a Coke bottle can run so many rounds, unless you've been resting in one of these warehouses for years to keep it in circulation for decades, because it's both aesthetic and break-technically impossible. But that's not what we're talking about. This is a bit of a one-sided view of environmental protection over the last decades. I am talking about the fact that even if you put it in recyclable or reusable glass packaging instead of disposable plastic packaging, you have to look at its entire life cycle. So you have to see that that bottle needs to be recovered, it has to be returned to the plant by road, rail or by any means, where it is washed, disinfected, so there is already water pollution, then it will be filled and returned. Compared to this, let's say the single-use bottle is manufactured, then it becomes waste, which is good for recycling, because it's made of, say, polyethylene. So that's why life-cycle analysis was invented at the time, so that the two can be compared, which one has a greater overall environmental load, and not to say that it's automatic, just because the glass can be returned, redeemed and recyclable, it's certainly not an environmental burden. This is the same as in the case of solar panels or windmills, that when it stands and works, it does not emit smoke, and therefore it does not have an environmental load, even though it had to be manufactured at some point, it will eventually become waste and be recycled. So let's not go to such a demagogue about environmental protection or environmental stress, but let's really stay on the whole life cycle perspective, and then we can make decisions that can really lead to positive environmental processes for decades. Thank you. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2015-03-18-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] Yeah. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-18-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, I'm just going to talk about what I didn't mention in my earlier speech. Congressman László Szakács mentioned that the product award was passed to the public as sunbathing and soap. It didn't go through like that, you guys carried it through during the hack campaign. So it didn't go through naturally, but they realized that something symbolic could be done here. So once again, I say that the practical burden, the significance of this is a fraction of what you have been able to bring out of this. But more importantly, to get to the point: he mentions that the world has gone by our side. [[16.40]] Well, not in terms of waste management. If someone looks back just two decades, then he sees that practically all the settlements of Hungary had a gravel pit at the end of the village, a dump where they poured the waste on each other. Well, the elimination of these has actually been completed in such a way that it is no longer allowed to be there, many of which are currently being recultivated, and there are modern landfills in the country, in which there are not two but ten or a few years of free capacity. However, modern selections were also completed, various treatment plants, and a system of waste management was established, with an important milestone of 1 January. From that date, a separate system must be operated for paper, metal, plastic and glass in all the municipalities of Hungary. The Hungarian system differs from the mandatory one in the European Union in so far as it is a basically home-going system, so the legislation allows us to use waste collection islands as an exception. Therefore, it is either established throughout the country now, or in these weeks the service providers conclude contracts with the municipalities, e.g. focusing on the location of the necessarily remaining or to be placed. Hungary is currently keeping its commitments in these four waste streams. The only problem is the bottle, so let's face it, we can't meet the recovery rate we've been charged. This, by the way, makes some sense, this series of investments in recent years is our space of manoeuvre, as there is obviously a selective system, and the landfills have been completed, so that the whole deposit fee system is examined, of course, and we are not shutting down otherwise, especially in the case of glass. But that 1968 Coke bottle wouldn't be able to withstand strict food safety rules today, because what we think is acceptable by the looks of it is certainly not what it was, it could be the same in the '70s, and it's not the case today, and we really have to do the calculations to see if it's worth moving empty air. So it wasn't a coincidence that they thought and worked out that they were compacting the waste for recycling. Do we have a vision of the future of this country? Yes, but now [[Dr. László Kács: But we won't tell you! Sallai R. Benedict: Only we know! Defiance.]] With regard to the amendment of the Environmental Product Fee Act on paper, I would not outline this. Of course, we believe that the waste hierarchy must be respected, and the first is prevention. This is also served by the part of the product fee, which, for example, has been very effective in putting on plastic bags, has been completely repressed. Two or three years ago, if we went to a cashier's checkout, the cashier threw one down from behind the back of every fourth product unsolicited. They don't do that today because there's expensive, extra taxes on this product. For example, it is for this purpose that artificial flowers are imposed, which is not only worrying about aesthetic reasons in the cemetery, but is useless. So the artificial flower is made of material and is given a surface treatment after which nothing can be done, but it is permanently placed on the landfill. Thank you, Congressman Kepli, for your thoughts. The only problem I have is that the past, present, has placed us from the three of the future to the past - I hope that this comment proves that this is not the least so. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-03-18-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/3751. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-18-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The amendment aims to reduce background institutions and bureaucracy in line with the government's simplification efforts, including the integration of the National Agricultural Library and Documentation Centre into the National Agricultural Museum. The long-term professional goal is that the National Agricultural Museum and Library, which is created by integration, will continue to function as a kind of knowledge centre for agriculture, agricultural professionals and interested people, where all knowledge about agriculture can be found in one place. As a result of integration, a professionally defining, cost-effective, simple organisation is created. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of the reasons given, that the bill should be discussed and then adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-18-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the law on museum institutions, public library care, public education is a short piece of material. With your permission, I'll be brief myself. As we have already heard from the presentation, we are talking about the merger of the institutions of the Agricultural Museum, the Agricultural Library. Thanks to this amendment, it will continue to function as an institution, a National Agricultural Museum and Library. Obviously, there is a reason for this change. This is part of an evolving concept, which serves the best possible accessibility and utilisation of the agricultural knowledge material in Hungary. I, too, look forward to the development of the institutions, which is foreseen by the amendment. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-18-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-18-159	Thank you very much for the floor. The merger of the National Agricultural Library and Documentation Centre and the National Agricultural Museum would be basically an acceptable thing in the event that this merger does not mean that it is irresponsible, as part of an evolving concept, let's say as part of the transformation of the City Park, that the museum will be removed from Vajdahunyadvár in order for you to succeed in giving this or some of your friends [[Zsolt V. Németh: He won't get out!]] as you can read in the articles, even for gastronomic purposes. If the museum goes to the right place, or if they want to move the museum to the right place, then, of course, this would be an acceptable thing, we're just afraid that they're going to provide again space, surface and opportunity for a transformation that will not serve the interests of the museum, the library, but your interests. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Although János Pócs said his short sentence and left, I will try to dig a little deeper into the visible consequences of this law, which can come about; while you say it is technical, I think it can have much deeper effects than that. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the 1997 law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education, which appears to be technical in front of us, contains a slight change in the annex to the law. According to the amendment, the name of the National Agricultural and Documentation Centre is changed to the National Agricultural Museum and Library. The name change is backed by an institutional merger, which results in the current Museum of Agriculture and the National Agricultural and Documentation Centre being merged, which is justified by the integration of the library into the museum's organization. [[16.50]] Both the library and the museum are institutions with a long history, their operation and activities are of a very high quality and diverse nature. Indeed, the tasks performed by the two institutions have certain boundaries and contexts that link them. However, these two institutions have operational and management autonomy for a reason. The institutions were set up by the Minister of Sector by means of an instrument of incorporation, so that their merger, restructuring or possible termination is also primarily a ministerial competence. The supervision and control of the performance of tasks falling within the competence of the Minister does not fall directly within the competence of the Parliament, for which the current government is responsible. Because of the problem before us - that the two institutions are merged - it is necessary to make a technical amendment to the law, and because of the name change, it treats the merging of the institutions as a ready fact. The reason for the proposal is 1 July 2015 as the date of the merger. However, as regards how the tasks falling within the competence of the institutions will be performed in the future, how the tasks laid down by law within the new institution will be insured, the justification does not contain a single word. The rapporteur therefore expects the House to vote in favour of the amendment proposal without informing it of the real reason for the institution transformation, the likely consequences thereof, or of the details of the decision on institution restructuring. The author therefore expects us to sign a blank cheque in which he will do whatever he wants without further control. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed amendment intends to change the law on the basis of an event which has not yet occurred, which is uncertain as to how and when the event takes place. In accordance with the Public Finance Act, the decision of the Minister of the Sector is not sufficient for the abolition of budgetary bodies by pooling, and the prior agreement of the Minister of State responsible for the current public finances is also required. The explanatory memorandum does not state that the Minister for Public Finance has given his consent, nor does it say that this agreement has been requested by the supervising Minister of Sector. Nor is the fact that the two institutions are merged during the year, which may have an impact on the budget for the year. If we already know in March that these two institutions will be merged, why didn't the merger take place on 1 January? Was it because the idea of a merger came up after the draft of the budget law for the year? My questions are, of course, rhetorical, and I just want to express my concerns about the decision being thought out. In the event that the two patina institutions are not merged by the planned date or are not feasible by the planned date, then we will sit here again in July and we will amend the amendment again? The school example of unprepared, immature, thought-like and ad hoc decision-making lies again before us. The supervision and control of government work is one of the key tasks of the Parliament, but only the government can exercise direct influence on the work of the implementing institutional system. We only have the opportunity and opportunity to act consistently and accurately in our legislative work, setting an example for the entire institutional system. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to reject the amendment on this subject, let us return to this question if our decision, which seems formal, is based on a real event. This is not the case at the moment, and therefore the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not be able to support this amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-18-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This is where there is opportunity for speeches and two-minute speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that a number of people have withdrawn from the post-meeting speech because of their official duties. I'm also tagged with someone who steps back who's here. [[Lajos Kepli: Wrong.]] Then I'll give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, who is on holiday, Hungarian, if you have money - A situation picture of Hungary's tourism affair, who has signed up for the speech after the agenda. My apologies, I was told in the script by someone in front of me. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-18-163	Thank you very much. As much as anyone would have wanted to do so, I would also like to say this post-scheduled speech. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of this year, the government's nearby press heard Béla Glattfelder's statement of State Secretary for Economic Regulation that tourism performed extremely well, closing a record year in 2014. According to Mr. Secretary of State, there is a great need to strengthen the pursuit of quality in Hungarian tourism. But let's see what is real, because as we know, numbers can be played, but there are areas where people from tourism do not feel this huge increase. As I said before after the agenda, the Balaton region, for example, does not share this great pleasure, as domestic guest traffic can show only a 4% increase, which is the lowest of the country's tourist regions, and foreign guests are lagging behind, as foreign guest traffic has decreased by 1.7 percent. We remember the eighties, when the shore of the Hungarian sea was full of Hungarian people. It was natural for us, who were mostly young children, to spend a week or two in the summer on Lake Balaton, and we met a lot of foreign tourists. However, we are now at the point that the number of guest nights in commercial accommodations decreased from 3 million to 300 thousand in 1996 to 1 million to 900 thousand in 2013, a decrease of 42 percent in less than 20 years. It is also worth noting that holiday habits are changing here, because, as I indicated in my example, decades ago, it was natural for the family to be on holiday for a week or two, but today, according to statistics of commercial accommodations, the average stay is 2.4 nights. This shows that Hungarians cannot afford longer-term rest, because their earnings simply do not allow it, and many employers do not like long-term leave for their employees. It is also clear from the preliminary data that Hungarian domestic tourism is currently being kept alive by the SZÉP card, which is not necessarily the credit of the government. If employers reduce or withdraw this kind of benefit because of decisions that are detrimental to your economy, taxation, then we can say goodbye to hurrayoptimism. Domestic tourism will be able to make real progress when Hungarian people receive adequate wages, real, well-paying jobs are created. Mr Sleepy Secretary of State also expressed the need to improve quality. This is obviously expected from the self-power of those present in the tourism sector, as it is the Fidesz government that reduces the tourism target in the central budget year after year, which is only HUF 4.9 billion in 2015. This amount was still over HUF 10 billion in 2012-13, but in 2014 it was only 9.9 billion, and now it is virtually halved. How do you expect to improve tourism and improve its quality with these numbers? Hungary could be a European citadel of tourism without high mountains and sea, and it could work for hundreds of thousands of people. If the resources provided to support tourism were to be granted solely on the basis of technical considerations and on the basis of Community interests, tourism could not be the depositary of stopping our economic deep-flying at the level of words alone. Tourism catering is able to provide a secure livelihood for a wide range of businesses, all of whom could make a significant contribution to our economic growth. In any of the Member States of the European Union, which is constantly referred to as the reference basis, there is no such high overall turnover tax as in our country. At the same time, tourism companies enjoy a huge VAT discount in many places. By reducing VAT, more money could be left to businesses, by reducing their constraints, and reduced rates could also result in lower consumer prices, which would result in traffic growth. Jobbik's goal is to strengthen domestic tourism in Hungary at the same time, while being one of the most popular destinations of international tourism. Over the past few years, I have repeatedly talked about our plans for health and medicinal tourism, which have very good, proper foundations in Hungary, but the governments of the last decades have done nothing to really boost the sector. That's the only problem. [[17.00]] Jobbik has repeatedly initiated a reduction in the VAT content of accommodation services to 5% in the debate on the budget law and as a separate bill. Each time he was swept down and rejected by the ruling parties. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not just a matter of talking, it's a matter of action. Jobbik will continue to support, as has been the case, all steps to boost the country's economy, which will create real jobs. We are also looking forward to positive action in the area of tourism. If you are no longer willing to follow our proposals, which would really boost the situation in this sector, then come up with your own, independent proposals! Thank you very much.
u2015-03-18-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work, thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. We will resume our work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Good night, everyone. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 1 p.m.]]
