u2015-10-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 8th session of the Parliament's autumn session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On 6 October, on the Memorial Day of the martyrs of Arad, the decorative units of the Hungarian Defence Corps released the national flag on Kossuth Square. According to our tradition, it's an expression of grace, respect for heroes. A few hours later, here in the Chamber, we were appalled to hear the news of Árpád Göncz's death. The downed flag gained new meaning that day because of the death of the first head of state in Hungary after the change of regime. Árpád Göncz's fate has come together in the 20th century. The Hungarian history of the century. The Second World War, the 1956 Revolution, the years of retaliation, the decades of waiting, and then the uplifting moments of the birth of the regime change and the new Hungarian democracy. But he was not only a sufferer of historical events, but as a liberal intellectual, as a creative man, a representative of democracy and universal human values, he also formed them in an active manner. He defied both Nazism and communism, accepting the complete inability of the power at hand, even the danger of life. During the war, he was involved in armed resistance. Since 1945, he has been a politician in the Independent Little Farmer's Party. After the communist takeover, he was without a job. With a legal degree, he could only take physical work and then work in agriculture. Because of his involvement in the 1956 Revolution, he was prosecuted and sentenced as the second accused of the Bibo trial to life imprisonment. He was released from his sentence with amnesty in 1963. He used the compulsiveness of captivity for his own spiritual growth. He learned English, so as a translator he found a new profession, which also opened the way for him to literature. He was 52 years old when his first work appeared in print. His literary work was recognized with countless awards, and he held leading positions in the Hungarian Writer's Federation. After years in prison, his profession changed, not his creed. From the beginning, he was involved in the activities of the democratic opposition and founder of the Alliance of Free Democrats. At the parliamentary elections in 1990, he received a mandate representing this party. On 2 May 1990 he was elected President of the Parliament, and a few months later he was elected President of Hungary. He served until August 2000 after his re-election in 1995. In his first speech to the President of the Republic within these walls, he believed in the independence of the nation, freedom of speech and thought, freedom of religion, social justice and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Árpád Göncz could be thought of with respect even if we knew only his writing and literary translator work. His fate, however, was shaped in such a way that as a politician he was also surrounded by general respect and love, his popularity and appreciation remained unbroken even after his term of office. Now, when we finally have to say goodbye to him, the whole nation and the democratic world will bow their heads to him. As his successor Ferenc Mádl said, Árpád Göncz has made the life of the country and all of us more complete and richer forever. I would like to ask my fellow Members to pay tribute to Mr President's memory with a one-minute silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased with a minute's silence. On the table placed in the middle of the room, photos and flowers remind me of Árpád Göncz.]] Thank you. Dear House, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, member of the LMP faction, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:.Save what can be saved? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During last week, there was relatively a lot of talk about the government's land-privatisation plans, and I would like to remember before the agenda whether there is a chance that we can save what can still be saved. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] In recent years we have learned that at relatively fast pace, with great timing, moments want to sell nearly 380 thousand hectares of agricultural land in the state. We have learned that this will be no different from the way the state has already dealt with public property: it intends to make such a decision irresponsiblely, impartially, virtually without any substantive discretion. At last, János Lázár made the only and first substantive argument in favour of this process - because there was a lot of stupidity and untruth in the past - and that first argument was that they would steal what was here anyway. And this is a cause for reflection, because it is partly honorable that János Lázár will do so and say what the whole society thinks, but it is worrying that nothing has changed over the past two decades, the same concept that has operated the government at any time in the past two decades. [[11.10]] The difference is that now they admit it's an important reason. When LMP says that there is something that is not for sale, it doesn't just mean that you shouldn't steal, you shouldn't cheat public money, you also think that there are real values in the state that are very big mistakes to sell, because society may need it. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is important that we talk about this because, for example, land owned by the state is needed in a world where the countryside is always drawing the short straw and there will always be worse conditions, opportunities to carry out public tasks, then there must be sufficient strength, balance and means in the hands of the government to change this. Right now, this is the instrument the government wants to release from its hands. The problem with this step - Minister János Lázár said the reasons for this - is that this process also has an indicator character for governance. So basically, the government raises their hand and says, "I can't stop stealing, I can't stop mine from taking home what's in common, so I'm gonna sell it, and I'm gonna go, which is salvageable, so let's steal what we can, because someone else is stealing it." And this mentality, which is behind this whole thing, is worrying because the government recognizes its own responsibility in these processes. And now you can see that there is a way to reduce the costs of public money to pay the price and a multitude of rural jobs to be ruined, there can be results. It is possible to do some level of bureaucracy reduction, to rewrite the deadlines in legislation, and to see whether or not it can be observed, but to fight corruption cannot be fought by the government, because corruption is this government itself, this culture on which it is based, this political culture on which the last 25 years have developed and socialised governments, and there is no struggle and no means in the hands of the government. He raises his hand to the government and says, "Let's sell it because someone else is stealing it." This is the justification that the government must think about whether it should be governed like this, whether it should govern by admitting that it cannot fight against its own people, it cannot fight against its own hand, it cannot fight against its own activities, and rather chooses a means to put the countryside in a difficult position and make it impossible in the long term. The problem is that this government raises its hand and recognizes that it is the nature of government itself, and recognises that this is government, whoever is in power. And can a government that starts with the basic socialization of stealing whoever's in power, that's how it works, that's the nature of things? Is it allowed to build on such a sale of state property? Should this be used as a reason? And the question is always whether this tool should be strengthened in a half-feudal world, the seedy big owners be cemented with the unfair tender system they have acquired. And should it be put at a disadvantage for those rurals who have so far been left behind against the great estates, and they will then be even further below it, because the government has no means left to change that? Last week it was about making it clear to those who watched the events that this government would never reduce corruption, because it honestly believes that state corruption is part of the normal course of things, admitting that it is natural. According to Fidesz, the state is good for stealing from people and convincing them that it's good for them. Therefore, in my speech before the agenda, I would like to ask the government not to privatise everything where corruption is suspected, because there is nothing left. Please leave something for the next governments to govern. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think it's worth talking to each other honestly, especially here in front of the publicity of Parliament. I would like to ask you, my dear Member, that, if I understand correctly, your statement is this: Hungarian agricultural land is not in the right place for Hungarian farmers. He wants to prove to us that the good thing is that he is with the state, and perhaps it would be even better to give foreigners the opportunity to buy this land. Let's be clear. The government undertakes to offer the Hungarian farmers, the local farmers, about 6 percent of the Hungarian agricultural land at public bidding, which are ploughers. The LMP stands up and says it's no good, it's silly, it'd be much better if you stayed with the state. But why, Congressman? Why do you think that the fate of the fields or the property of the fields is better than that of private farmers, since almost all the fields are already in the hands of private farmers? Why do you think that if the government announced 50,000 localization numbers at a public bid and said that I wanted to support family farms - 41,000 of these 50,000 landmarks of less than 10 hectares of property - that would be in the wrong place for farmers? [[11.20]] Dear Congressman, This is a very ridiculous debate, if I may say so, that the government wants to give the farmland to the family. He says not to be nationalized, be it the family farms, and otherwise, a political family with left-wing emotion or left-wing emotion says no, it would be good for the state to have it and remain state-owned. I think that this conversation should take place the other way around, or at least from a political point of view it would make sense, but the fact that the government wants to give these lands to family economies at public bidding does not make any sense to the opposition representative. And as for what you said, I'd like to reflect on a few things. The fact that the operation of public economies is good or bad is your right to defend and to think that in previous years, before 2005, because there were no more public economies after 2005, you consider them to be good or bad. But to claim that the government would like to offer these lands at a public bidding - I stress once again, not by privatisation, but by public bidding - because there would be any corruption in these lands, which I do not understand, because these lands are currently used by farmers. So if I'm listening, your second statement is that farmers are committing some kind of corruption in these lands. But I don't understand why you think that, because these lands have been around for many years, and even some land has been in the hands of farmers for decades. It is not clear what kind of corruption you are talking about on this issue. I would also like to remind you of the small fact that farmers want to buy. I'm very happy, I'm not sure I'd like that, but it would be an interesting debate if you tried to convince farmers that they don't want to do this. But farmers have an elemental interest in buying these lands. If you look at it, you can see that since January 1, 2014, there have been over 7,000 land purchases in the National Fund, including yours, when you wanted to buy land. Very well, you are also a local farmer, why not buy, ask why not claim land. Another question is that it was a land below the local level of immunity, which is banned by law from being sold into private property, but let's just ignore that. But there were 7,000 land purchases. This means, I think, more clearly than ever, that farmers want to buy land. And I think that the fact that they don't rent these lands, but buy them, cost them their own property, will certainly improve their competitiveness. You don't have to pay rent, you don't have to be afraid that your land use rights will expire in five to ten years or even two to three years, but you can buy it for yourself, invest it, install irrigation systems, and you'll even manage it by leaving this land as a legacy for your family, your children. But if we look around Western Europe, see what the ownership structure is, then you will clearly see that there is absolutely no public ownership in the Western European states of ploughing areas. And certainly not with such small areas. I would like to emphasise once again that 90 percent of these lands are below 10 hectares. Summa summarum, my dear Member, I believe that you are unnecessarily attacking the programme where we want to give the land to local family farmers in order to prevent foreign land being acquired. Not as a gift, but as a public bid for someone who's legal and gives most money. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-12-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by bowing down to the memory of Árpád Göncz. As the heir of Gyula Horn, the Hungarian Socialists work and fight for a more democratic and just Hungary as an example of Árpád Göncz's political and public life work. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already told you at the opening of the season in Parliament, Hungary as a member of the European Community is facing a lot of challenges and many challenges, which can only be called Hungary's problem, namely workers' poverty. There is a situation in Hungary today that simultaneously hinders economic growth, and on the other hand, the lack of a salary increase encourages emigration and abandonment in Hungary. The political debates over the past few weeks clearly show that the vast majority of society is calling this issue the most serious problem, and they are looking for an answer. Our suggestion is, therefore, that a salary increase is needed in 2015 and that it is possible for the government to do so; this has become an unavoidable social issue, and it cannot be passed by. This is indicated by the government's communication over the past few days, on two occasions, primarily in higher education, the government intends to increase the salary of teachers and assistant professors from 2016, and this is the second time that János Lázár has promised the 30 percent wage increase to public administration workers this year. So you see precisely that there is social tension, there is a policy that uses and burns the future, and that they need to change. It is Courageless, and it seems precisely that there is no intention of a comprehensive salary increase programme in the budget, but rather it is being dredged, certain socio-professional groups are appointed, but they do not intend to resolve this situation in a comprehensive way. To say only the numbers: today, in health care, in the social care system, in public farming, the salary is less than HUF 100,000 net. These are the people who work for the operation of the Hungarian state, for solving the problems of Hungarian citizens or for the transfer of knowledge of their own volition and professional commitment. It follows that what you promise will always be a promise and there is no action. We've seen how they treat private pension savings a few times, how they distribute them to their liking. They promised to cut the government debt, then redistribute the money, people will get their savings, but today all this remains a written emissary, only promised and did nothing, but the money is gone. We're talking about 700,000 people. For them today, workers' poverty is alarmingly high, while the government has recently allocated nearly HUF 300 billion to the central bank, state leaders, leaders of state companies or even to state television in recent days. This year, 4 billion have only been spent on poster campaigns and another 25 billion will be spent on government propaganda. Instead of polishing yourself, it would be time, ladies and gentlemen, if the workers had the money they had worked for. You could have actually decided if you wanted a raise or not. You've decided to spend it on waste and your own clientele. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see it precisely, because KSH and each economic indicator clearly indicate that Hungary is breaking down, and one of the reasons for Hungary's break-off is that, while there is an opportunity, the net earnings of the people employed in the institutional system of the state are 100 thousand forints behind the average earnings determined in the real economy. I would like to say that you are not doing anything, either to equalise the chance, to combat poverty or to catch up with the EU average, is not simply a political mistake, it is an indescribable crime of living up to the future and of losing the future. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me one more sentence. This sin will have to be changed together for a very long time, and instead of constantly promising, they will have to give a raise in 2015. Thank you.
u2015-10-12-6	Mr. Team Leader, thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. Of course, 20 seconds will be given to you as well. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I think that this kind of stand would have been expected by the Hungarian electorate not in 2015 but in 2008 by the politicians of the Hungarian Socialist Party, in the year when it was not a salary increase, but a salary reduction, and it was for one reason, above all, that the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Alliance of Free Democrats were in the former government. [[11.30]] Perhaps one of the most important of these increases is the issue of minimum wage, which affects people living in the most difficult circumstances. It is good to watch in favour of the buzzing voices that the Hungarian Socialist Party says as a opposition party that when it was on the government, it did what it did. After all, if you look at how much the minimum wage increased annually between 1998 and 2002, during the first Orbán government, it is 7625 HUF. 7625 forints a year! Then the socialist period followed, and after this HUF 7625 HUF 2937 increased the minimum wage for an average of eight years, then the second Orbán government period came, which introduced an annual increase of HUF 6300 per year after HUF 2937. So if we look at the fact that the Socialist Party is making wage claims, and he is the party that took it away from nurses, teachers and all other civil servants for the 13th month's wages, and this was the party that increased the minimum wage by half or a third compared to the civil governments of Fidesz-KDNP, we can say that such a claim from the MSZP is not even uncredited, but simply tries to undo all their previous policies. As they sing at their party conventions: abolishing the past completely; but the Hungarian electorate remembers what the socialists did when they were on the government. In contrast, when you demand as a opposition party, you always have good ideas, and when you are on the government, you always have excuses for not being able to implement them. At the same time, allow me to thank and accept the recognition you have given me on behalf of the government. You said in one of your sentences that you have the possibility of raising your salary to the government. This means that the Hungarian economy has been on a growing path since 2013. We have collected tax forints from the government, among other things, because of the fact that the international companies which were preferred by the socialists and benefited from various bonuses, but taxed by the Fidesz-KDNP government, from which, indeed, teachers, health workers, and social workers, have now had the opportunity to raise their wages, and will be the case of law enforcement workers or civil servants. So believe me, Mr President, that if the Fidesz-KDNP government has managed better to restore the economy, better to create the economic basis for wage increases, it will also be better to move forward with wage increases policy. The socialists failed either, since between 2002 and 2010, the economy was also destroyed, and salaries were reduced in real terms, since they took away a month's income from public sector workers. Under the Fidesz-KDNP, inflation has basically ceased, but wages have risen. If we have been better able to restore the economy, believe me, we will also be more effective in wage increases. However, let us not forget that you have tried to increase the difficulties of people's lives several times with increases in overhead costs, and that the real wage reduction or the 5 percent VAT increase in 2006 can also be attributed to you. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP started a policy of wage increases with teachers, as we said: those who deal with children in the long term, therefore, the future of the nation and its knowledge are in their hands, they deserve a wage increase first. In 2013, the budget included HUF 32 billion, HUF 120 billion in 2014 and HUF 38 billion in this year. If these budget lines were voted by the Socialist Party, it might be easier for you to speak now. We did the same in health care, as we gave 76 billion HUF extra benefits to healthcare workers there too, and many more times we would like to give this much in the future, because they deserve it. In the second half of this year, the staff on the side of the sickbed received an additional fee of about HUF 7 billion, who work on several shifts. From 1 January 2014 and from the second half of this year, we have also provided additional wages to social workers. This is the first sectoral wage supplement we have introduced, and some have received 17,000 forints, some have received more from one, and some have received more from the other. In addition, you have not supported the nicely gradually implemented tax reduction programme, which now accounts for only 15 percent of personal income tax, much less families, because in their case it can be up to zero percent if three children are raised on average. In conclusion, I would just like to say, Member, that we see the sweaty experiments of the Hungarian Socialist Party here in Parliament. Over the past few weeks, they've been trying to speak for wage increases every week, but the only problem is that the Socialist Party has a past that shows the exact opposite, so the voters won't believe you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-8	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Szászfalvi, from the KDNP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: the migrating crisis - from the bottom-up, on the Hungarian-Croatian border in Somogy. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The migrant crisis has become part of our lives in recent months, and we have dealt with it a lot in recent times here in Parliament, at government level, at diplomatic level. The Hungarian Government's initiatives, the Prime Minister's firm actions, are of great importance, which from time to time will be confirmed, and will find regular followers and perhaps even weak epigons. It is good news that thanks to the active Central European foreign policy of the Hungarian Government, it has been agreed last week between the Visegrád countries that the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland are also involved in the control and protection of the external borders of the Schengen area on the southern Croatian border of Hungary. The Hungarian government's decisions are based on the firm will of the Hungarian people; the clear expression of will that clearly indicated during the national consultation: according to the Hungarian people, the country must be protected. There is no other task, there is no other way for a democratically elected government, or for a majority of governments, than to comply with the people's decision and will, and this task coincides perfectly with the fulfilment of our EU obligations. Dear Parliament, This clear decision of the Hungarian people is also tangible in the reality of everyday life at the Hungarian-Croatian border section. On the one hand, as a result of the decisions of the government and the Parliament, the technical border lock will now be in full readiness, and thousands of police and soldiers serving at the border will perform their duties with superhuman power, both in heat and in pouring rain, mud and heavy terrain, and on the other hand, people living near the border will understand and support this work. They clearly believe that the country should be protected and that the border should be closed at the earliest possible time. Dear House, In recent weeks, in my constituency, the settlements of Zákány and Barcs, located on the Hungarian-Croatian border of Somogy, were flooded by the Croatian government with tens of thousands of illegal migrants. Today, even today, a small town of immigrants crossing the border illegally arrives as a result of Croatian state organization. In a small settlement of just 1100 souls in Zakány village, 70,000 people were passing through in the strictest sense of the word. There, living in the region, I had many personal impressions of the situation on the ground. Thanks to the superhuman police, military, mayor, civil organization, church and residential work and fantastic cooperation, the people living there feel safe. It is the result of their outstanding professional work and their human attitude that life takes place at the border, in the middle of the everyday migrant crisis. Thanks to all this extraordinary work and thanks to them, which I also express here, and thanks to the government, the Ministry of the Interior for continuous consultation and information. But it says more than anything that the population, communities and institutions in the region are eager to help the helpers with all possible means. This is the real and sincere saying of thanks, not that the fake and fake organizations financed by George Soros teach, criticize and humiliate the concerned mayor, the people who help him day and night, local charities or even a kindergarten community, from the height of the ivory towers in Budapest. This is outrageous and unacceptable. Get down to reality, come to work and help, or put two strings of grass on the public table. Dear Parliament, This is how the migrant crisis can be summarised from the bottom, the will of the people living on the ground: protect the border, protect the country and close the border as soon as possible. Despite the situation, as a result of well-organized and coordinated work, people feel safe and continue to ask the government to protect Hungarian citizens with decisive measures. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2015-10-12-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you and the people on the southern border, the churches, civil society organisations and municipalities that are operating there, for the cooperation that you have just given an account of. Indeed, as you say, this year, illegal migration on a historic and historical scale, illegal migration on an historic and scale, has reached Europe and reached Hungary. Allow me to inform you and this House of the latest data. Until midnight yesterday, 357,719 illegal border crossings were dealt with by the police. So again, 357,719 people. There were 203 816 people across the Serbian border, 152 874 people across the Croatian border. The number of captures in connection with smuggling and facilitation of illegal residence was 1159; the number of asylum applications lodged was 176 315 applications. Let me give you one more piece of data: thanks to the border closure introduced on 15 September, security protection, living protection and legal protection, 38 people came through the Serbian section yesterday, on the last day before 15 September, on 14 September 9380 people. So the number of illegal migrants on the Serbian-Hungarian border has decreased from 9380 to 38. This proves that the work carried out by the government in the interests of the people's decision was effective and successful, since people, as you said, clearly stated that Hungary must be protected. We will protect Hungary, and we will do so on all sections of the southern border, including the Hungarian-Croatian border section. The Government's express intention, honourable Member, is to reduce the number of illegal border crossings to zero at all border sections, including the Hungarian-Croatian border section. I would like to inform you and this House that, as Croatia is an EU Member State, we are having discussions. As you said, successful and good cooperation has been established with the Visegrad Four, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland to protect borders. The Visegrád Four have the same position that the external borders, the EU Schengen borders, must be protected, but they do not only agree on this, but also do so. Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, has made considerable efforts in recent years to develop successful and effective border police cooperation with the Visegrad Four. In order to protect the Hungarian-Croatian border, we have the intention to take a concrete form of this cooperation, and to obtain concrete assistance from these countries in terms of living power and technology, so that we can protect the southern border. I would like to inform you and this House that the border closure of the Hungarian-Croatian border has been built almost entirely. This means two parts of technical and physical protection. This is almost entirely ready, and we hope that, as these negotiations lead to results, we can take the steps that we need to take in the interests of the country and in the protection of those on the southern border. The government's firm position, honourable Member, is that everyone should enter the country in a regulated and controlled manner. It's not an option, it's not a wish show, it's an obligation for everyone. With this, Hungary fully complies with the Hungarian laws and EU rules. Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank you once again for the very important cooperation and very effective work that we are getting from people living on the southern border. Thank you for your understanding, for your cooperation with local governments, churches, civil society organisations and charities. Thank you for the superhuman work of police, defence, immigration and citizenship staff. This successful work proves that everyone in Hungary is safe. The government guarantees the safety of all citizens of Hungary, guarantees the southern border and all settlements of Hungary. I ask you to continue our cooperation, and then we will all act in the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, also came forward before the agenda, with the title of joint protection of the Hungarian Schengen borders. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-12-13	Mr. President. Dear House, First, I would like to express my condolences to the Fidesz fraction about the death of Árpád Göncz, our first President of the Republic. Árpád Göncz was indisputably one of the decisive politicians and figures of the change of regime, so the success and evolution of the change of regime, what we know to be a change of regime, is largely due to his work. Of course, many people judge change in many ways. Typically, reflecting the present political situation, ideas and knowledge for the period around 1990 - which is obviously wrong - we remember well some of us who personally participated in the first presidential speech in the Republic: there is much to say, but Árpád Göncz's honesty and faith, democracy, freedom of expression and human rights cannot be doubted. Mr. President. Dear House, The Hungarian borders, while at the same time protecting the Schengen borders of the European Union, are developing cooperation that I can safely say has happened in history, but what happens is that what can be found - only hundreds of years ago - is an example that the northern neighbours of Hungary, the Visegrád Four, together form military cooperation that now expands with the protection of the Hungarian and Schengen borders. The head of state meeting in the Balaton Highlands was held recently, inviting the President of the Republic of Croatia; who certainly looked in the mirror, and said that Croatia was not well prepared for this flood of refugees, this wave of immigration has reached him. And it is true, who observed the Croatian declarations, knew and could see that in 24 hours they had reached the, we welcome everyone, and dear brothers, come and take a position until the Serbian-Croatian border was completely closed. The whole must be stressed because when our fellow Croatian politicians speak about the closure of the Serbian-Hungarian border, they forget that this was not a complete border closure. Even when it was complete, the majority of regular border crossings were open to traffic. Furthermore, the closing of the green border does not mean that Hungary did not operate the system regulated in accordance with the international legal framework, that the person who applied to the Hungarian border guard at the border crossing, during opening hours, for political asylum, could submit this request; in contrast to the complete border closure at the Serbian-Croatian border, when no one was allowed in or out. There was a time like this. I think that, with the cooperation between the Visegrád Four and Croatia unfolding, we can say two things. One is that the Visegrád countries, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, who help protect the common Schengen border with soldiers, military equipment, equipment and border guards and police patrols, clearly recognise explicitly that the Hungarian technical border closure is not only legal, but also a legitimate, even one, step towards complying with the Schengen Convention in some way. If there is no technical border closure, if we do not maintain the green border, it is not possible to enforce the Schengen provision that those who apply for political asylum must register at the open border crossing point, registered by the Hungarian authorities. [[11.50]] In recent times - we know that the election campaign is a troubled period - the Croatian Prime Minister has been making very upset statements as to whether the Hungarian authorities are really protecting the Schengen borders. I would just like to reassure everyone that the Croatian authorities have issued a declaration that they have been registered by the Croatian authorities on immigrants coming from Croatia to the EU. So we don't have to register there. Overall, we would like to welcome the solidarity and military assistance of the Schengen countries. I think it's certainly a step forward in finding a common solution. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Hungarian Levente wishes to reply. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-12-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He reflected on a question, as was the previous one, which concerns Europe's most burning problem, the illegal migration wave, which is a civilization challenge on a scale of which Europe is now slow to halt, according to the wildest left-wing interpretations. He hasn't faced it since World War II. And a challenge that threatens European life, the European way of life, European security and the European values on which Hungary builds its political system in a way far deeper than the seemingly primarily affected economic and financial dimension. Honourable Congressman, It is clear today that we are facing a migration crisis, not primarily in refugee but in a refugee robe, and it has also become clear that this is an undesirable process that needs to be combated, which needs to be stopped. We are pleased to note that today a number of European countries, including our Visegrad partners, share this position, and, more than that, they want to be proactively involved in the Hungarian efforts to protect our southern borders towards Serbia and Croatia from the pressure of illegal migration. Honourable Congressman, It is an important task to hold back, and it is important that those who are not entitled cannot enter the territory of Hungary and the European Union, but at the same time it is important to emphasise our moral obligation to help those in real trouble. This is about, honourable Member, the fact that there are currently millions of people in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Tunisia who are going through the period of civil wars that have been raging their country and who have been forced to flee because of a truly humanitarian disaster. Solidarity against these people, help is not only a Hungarian, not only a European, but also a global responsibility, and therefore the Hungarian government has made concrete proposals in the relevant international forums. We have proposed to Brussels that the European Union should spend an enormous amount of money to help these genuine refugees, where they are currently staying, to create living conditions, conditions from which they are not forced to flee. In our understanding, these circumstances are already in place, but of course they must be further improved in order to allow refugees to survive the entire period of possible prolonged crises in these shelters. As regards the fight against illegal migration, honourable Member, there are some lucky European countries that are in a geographical and legal position to prevent this phenomenon from appearing at their own gates, within their own borders. Such are our Visegrád partners, who have not yet faced this problem in the majority, but they have recognised that, in order not to apply to them, proactive action is needed, and thus forms - it is now a matter of days before it becomes final - the agreement and the cooperation in which our Visegrád partners enter the defence of the Hungarian borders with considerable military and police force. Particular attention must be paid to the fact, honourable Member, as you have mentioned, that Croatia has also indicated its willingness to cooperate at the Presidential level, and this is important to add. We therefore thank the President of the Republic of Croatia for the intention and communication of the normal and bilateral relations that the Croatian Prime Minister and the Croatian Government are putting through every day. At the government level, Croatia is regularly sticking to statements that are now difficult to find consolidated answers. However, we are pleased to note that in Croatia there is no sympathy for Hungary, and surely, after the current government has left government over time, there will be governmental factors to restore the affected relations in Croatia. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for raising this question. The V4 cooperation, in addition to providing an effective response to a current crisis, can be considered historic, as this will be the first V4 military action to address a real threat. I would therefore like to stress that we are extremely grateful to our partners and look forward to further stages of cooperation. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda with the title of the biggest public asset theft of the last 25 years. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! There's a stench around state land sales. It stinks because they didn't have the guts to bring it here, to the House, to talk here, to argue about how they still imagine where they get the authority and the courage to privatize one of the last existing bastions of Hungarian national wealth, the Hungarian agricultural land. No wonder you don't dare bring him here, because you didn't ask the electorate for permission or, as I said, the Parliament. The only way to ask opposition questions was to meet last week's Committee on Agriculture's Supervisory Sub-Committee, where two ministers were tired, as well as a number of State Secretarys. At the same time, during the two-hour meeting, we did not hear any valid arguments as to why the government should do so. Unless we consider what we already know as an argument that Fidesz and the MSZP have stolen the country in hand over the last 25 years. But let us, Secretary of State, not accept that as an argument. The reason this whole sale of land stinks and lies is because that's not what they promised. In the national rural strategy, adopted by your government, it was precisely the opposite, and the need to increase the level of public areas must increase the influence of the Hungarian state on the countryside. Of course, it could have been suspicious to everyone even if they didn't think this was serious, because it was the first Orbán government to sell the most functioning public economies. Putting personalities aside, it is also necessary to clarify who asked for this land sale. They keep saying that the Chamber of Agriculture and Magos have indicated to you that it would be good for the state to get rid of these lands. To put it mildly, they can't be set up as independent organizations, not even because their leaders are sitting here among us, in your benches. It is also a lying argument when it is said that they are trying to prevent foreign land purchases from taking this step, that the Hungarian land should fall into the hands of foreigners. This is quite simply a lie, because even Brussels cannot force the Hungarian state to put its agricultural land on the market. So if the state doesn't do this, then it's simply not going to be possible for foreigners to get this land, unlike in this case, when the few years you'll be writing out as a moratorium, and the new owner will certainly sell his land to someone who offers more for it. The argument is also false when it is said that they want to help the local family farms out with this land, since they do not add that it is 20-30 years or even 40 years of chartered land. Don't take Hungarian people for granted. Don't make us look like idiots. We all know that it will be the current tenants who buy most of these areas. They are made up of two groups: the lease winners of the last few years, the oligarchs close to you, the Lőrinc Mészáros and the others, and the large landowners privatized as former state farms, will obtain most of these lands. So it's not about helping family farms with these lands. [[12.00]] It is also a lying argument when they say that this HUF 300 billion will be a serious revenue to the Hungarian state and how much useful it will be. I mean, they don't add that the state is going to lose the rent on these land forever. In this form, if you added that, it wouldn't be such a pretty amount of 300 billion forints. There is no guarantee, as you have put it, that the farmers with the crusty palms will acquire these lands. It would be nice to have at least one scanner to measure the crusted palms, because we heard the same arguments in the land leases, and they failed, and it turns out that there is actually a Fidesz-like land rental system in progress. How will it be, Secretary of State, then land for the promised demographic land programme, the social land programme? How will it be land for social cooperatives or for local governments who will want to use these lands for useful projects so that jobs can finally be created in the Hungarian countryside? Secretary of State, the Hungarian people have been watching for 25 years how different governments are stealing the country. They have completely destroyed industry, the food processing industry, but we have just arrived at the farmland. In fact, as the rumors began, it seems that the forests will be the next target, since they have already begun to discredit the forest farms. It would be good to have a meaningful answer to that, as it would indeed be the final step in cementing our colonial status. There is no other way, Mr. Secretary, to withdraw this disgrace so that a decent government can have more to farm. Thank you, and I expect a meaningful answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Márton Bitay wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-12-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Congressman, We could go through exactly what you said, and we've been through it a couple of times. If you don't mind, I'd just like to suggest a few things to your attention. You may remember that when the Land Traffic Act was passed by the National Assembly, you tried by physical force - otherwise it was a historic moment, because this has not yet been the case in the Hungarian Parliament - to prevent the final vote of the Land Traffic Act on the ground that it will help foreigners and contribute to the ability of foreigners to buy the Hungarian agricultural land... - or by means of pocket contracts which were expansive during socialist governments. I would like to remind you that the exact opposite of that has happened. I'm just quoting this because somehow life always makes it exactly the opposite of what you're trying to scare me with. You may have noticed that the earth traffic law from Brussels is being violently attacked. There's an infringement procedure, and we can't quite see the end of it yet. What we can certainly see is that the order of pre-emptions is also a problem, but what is the biggest problem is whether legal persons can buy land in Hungary or not. What I'd like to ask you then is what you think is the right solution. Is it good that the state owns the agricultural land, has legal persons owning the agricultural land, is it possible that foreign people own the agricultural land, or is the Hungarian agricultural land by chance owned by Hungarian farmers? I think that the government will give a very clear answer to this, and I think, quite rightly, that the Hungarian agricultural land is owned by Hungarian farmers in the best place. There's no place better than this. With regard to the sale of the land, I would like to remind you that the most important question is not to give the farmland to family farmers, if not to the natural persons, the local farmers, because, by the way, this is guaranteed by the law, who would benefit from leaving this loophole or opportunity open. I think you should admit, as a better Member, that it would be a very undesirable situation if even a fraction of the Hungarian agricultural land could be purchased by foreigners or companies. Therefore, I would ask you not to be a partner in trying to wait until something is wrong with the Land Traffic Act due to attacks in Brussels, and at the end we would find you there that Hungarian farmers do not have the land in Hungary. What you said was that there was no debate in Parliament, Mr President: there was a debate in Parliament. There was a detailed parliamentary debate on how state wealth, including state land, could be used, including a separate parliamentary debate on sales. I'll also be able to recommend reports to your attention. But most importantly, I would like to remind you that you voted in favour of this law. It was a two-thirds law, the National Fund of Earth law, which regulates precisely how public land can be transferred to private or private property. It referred to the national rural strategy, which indeed includes the need to increase public land. I would like to report, Mr President, that we have also increased public land, that the state has bought thousands of hectares; that the state is buying protected natural areas or suspected pocket contracts. I don't see much reason why private owners, family farmers, should giggle at the state and rub your palms that we've done a good job. That's not the job. This is also not the case in the national rural strategy for protected natural areas. I'd like to correct a few more factual errors that you've said. The request of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and Magos is indeed very important, and has also expressed the demand of farmers, but it does not dispute, I hope, either, that more than 7,000 requests have been received from the National Fund of Agriculture in the last few years, and I think that, quite rightly, the farmers would like to buy the land, which they are also doing. It is also false to claim that the vast majority of these areas are covered by 20-30-40-year contracts. That statement is not true. With a 40-year contract, there is only one, otherwise these leases will expire within 5-8 years. Some of it expires in 25 years, and you're right about that, but a lot of it goes down in five or eight years. You mentioned that the current tenants would be able to buy it. They will not be able to buy them, these lands were used by companies before 2010, and legal entities cannot buy land in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They, the local farmers, would now have the opportunity to buy the land instead of the big companies. I'm asking you not to stop or try. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before today's agenda. Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Zoltán Kész, independent; László Teleki, MSZP; László Varju, independent; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Nagy, Fidesz. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President in his power to speak. Dear Parliament, At last week's meeting of the House Committee there was consensus that the factions would initiate the new version of the T/6569 submitted. The Court of First Instance held its hearing with a derogation from the rules of the house. The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to act as a member of the Parliament of the 11th of 1998 on lawyers. T/6569. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place today. T/6569/1 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 144 yes, 5 votes against, without abstention. The amendments may be submitted for 12 hours and 30 minutes. For the consolidated debate today, T/6290. After the debate on the Commission's report, the decision will be taken in the context of today's votes. Dear Parliament, Before the adoption of the agenda, I declare that T/6290 amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 There was no proposal for an amendment concluding a detailed debate. Furthermore, the rapporteur did not initiate the procedure of the Committee on Budgets, so today the Commission's report on the bill will be debated and the final vote will be held. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, The 2014 XX list of the Hungarian Ministries will follow. Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. the Commission's report on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/6291. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[Noise. Several congressmen are leaving the room.]] Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to my fellow Members, I would respectfully ask my fellow Members who are leaving to please the Chamber if they have to leave in order to perform an urgent public task, to leave quietly so that we can continue our work. Thank you. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 8 October the 2014 XX. Act on Central Administrations and the Status of Members of the Government and State Secretarys of State 2010 XLIII. T/6291. Bill No. 1. The proposal was presented by 23 votes in favour, 7 non-voting reports and a summary amendment. The amendment adopted makes it clear that the person in charge of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, i.e. the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, is Minister. It also states that the name of the department directly managed by the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. The Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister is managed by a State Secretary. As has been said in the general debate of the proposal and before the Legislative Committee, by adopting the legislation before us, Parliament will ensure that the government changes its own structure and performs its tasks in a structure of its own discretion. After the change of regime, it is a practice that Parliament does not hinder such initiatives and the government is free to decide in what structure it intends to carry out its tasks. The Justice Committee and the pro-government members of the Legislative Committee did not see any reason to change the aforementioned tradition, so they supported the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-12-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee in a total time frame of seven minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Apparently, it is only about the restructuring of the government structure, and it really should be the sole responsibility of the government, how much this transformation serves the government's goals, its responsibility to work within what organisational framework it intends to work under. We wouldn't really be dealing with this bill, because normally that's what the bill should be about. But things haven't been normal in Hungary for a long time. We must also remember the promises made by the Prime Minister at the start of the second Orbán government. The Prime Minister then announced the promise of a cheaper government with a smaller apparatus, he said that he imagined a much cheaper and smaller state. How does this fit in with the current ministry's statement? It's okay to say it doesn't. There will be another minister, and next to the countless Secretary of State, the countless Deputy Secretary of State, will be another Secretary of State. For what purpose, for what purpose? To make Hungary and the Hungarian people better, which should normally be the main goal of a government? No! I'm here to make a personal change for the sake of one person, because someone needs to be made a minister. That's why they're forming a new ministry. And why does this man need a ministerial position? Because that's how you want to deal with the internal tensions within Fidesen, the internal differences that are intertwined with each other. As opposing politicians, we could sit back and watch this battle within Fidesen and cheer for good to win in the battle of good and evil if there were good sides in this battle. But to live with a Star Wars example, it's your side where you guys keep breathing badly. But unfortunately, it's not a movie, which, if you don't like it, we turn it off, it's reality, and that's why it's kind of sad. It is absolutely sad that your government is motivated by only one thing, one thing, their 2010 election slogan: only Fidesz. They're really loyal to one thing, this slogan. That is why we cannot support this proposal, which is why there is such a gap between Fidesz and Jobbik on other issues, because one of our main slogans is similar to this, but in its content it is completely different: only the nation. And that's what we're gonna do. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-12-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó, another minority speaker of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The opinion of the MSZP is also clear from the first minute: this bill once again shows the true face of Fidesz. While the country is facing many problems both existentially and on other issues, millions of people at the end of the month cannot pay the cheque, hundreds of thousands of people leave the country because they cannot find jobs and livelihoods while we are in the middle of the refugee crisis, there is only one important thing for you to fight against the con. It is clear that the bill is nothing more than for Antal Rogán to come forward as Minister. The bill doesn't even tell us what he's gonna do. To present this cynical and ridiculous situation, nothing is better served than that the Hungarian Parliament, its House Committee, had to deal specifically with which committee would listen to Antal Rogán, because this ministry, at least according to the bill submitted, does not deal with anything other than the personal duties and well-being of Viktor Orbán. At least not at this time in the Parliament. As far as the concrete amendment is concerned, the MSZP once again made an amendment in the submission of the law, as we must admit that the legislative standards of the government are in place today, that you cannot write a single-page bill without a deer error. According to the original bill, you would have appointed two equal chiefs of staff to carry out this ministry's activities. That was denied. In the Committee on Justice, my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, was convinced by various Deputy State Secretarys that he was wrong, and then see a miracle, in the Legislative Committee, the Fidesz itself submitted a proposal for a new amendment, which corrected this issue. And he has arranged that a fourth secretary of state will be appointed to the minister and the three ministers of state, if we understand government statements correctly. Thus, the new ministry, which you believe will not cost taxpayers a penny, will provide a new minister and four State Secretarys, countless Deputy State Secretarys and Chief Departments to Antal Rogán in the future. It's an outrageous solution, it's outrageous that you're dealing with this and fighting in front of the country instead of dealing with people's affairs, people's problems. [[12.20]] Of course, you can say, and there is truth to it that the Hungarian Government has the free hand to establish this system in terms of its own operation and the implementation of its own tasks, but it says a lot that the Prime Minister's apparatus of hundreds is now being supplemented with new ministers and State Secretarys, while the health system, while the social care system, while the education is not given such a large role in total, is being inserted into a ministry where the Minister is unlikely to be able to read the records on the matter, not what problems there are and what solutions should be given. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-12-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he now wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin.]] I'm sorry, fellow Members, I didn't pay attention to the screen, and I apologize, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-27	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you exactly what time frame I have right now. I can talk to you for nine minutes, right?
u2015-10-12-28	The time frame is nine minutes.
u2015-10-12-29	Okay, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to confirm and maintain what has been said in the general debate. To my great sadness, Antal Rogán has just gone out again, and this bill is about him, for whom we would like to amend the budget law again. I do not understand what is this other, extremely important activity that always calls him out of the plenary when it comes to him when we are talking about his ministry, just the task that he will have to perform. I also think it is a very bad message to the Parliament, and for everyone who may be watching this mediation, that the future Minister, whose person we are going to decide on today, would have a responsibility, or even have a say in this debate. I would like to say a word or two about the draft law itself and the two draft laws, because what was said at the TAB meeting has already been partly said by my fellow Member, but I would like to reiterate the points in the general debate, namely that the 2015 Budget Act is being amended by the bill before us, which, by the way, was not so long ago discussed by the House in connection with another bill, another amendment. Interestingly, there is also a lack of concrete amount, as is the amount of which this new ministry will actually work. The amendment of a certain law on the migration crisis is about the fate of another HUF 60 billion that the government intends to place in the National Defence Fund, about the 47 billion HUF commitment that the Hungarian State will take over from a loan from MTVA, but again it does not say how much the Ministry of Antal Rogán will work, just as this bill will not. We continue to miss him, just as we missed the 2016 Budget Act in the general debate, because we think that it is not possible to take any ministry seriously if we don't spend a single penny on it this year, but not just the amount itself is not included in the next year's Budget Act, so it is missing, but the line itself is missing. So it's the 21st. Chapter 1 is missing from the 2016 Budget Act. I would like to ask the Secretary of State when they intend to make up for this mistake. I'll tell you why: if you're going to work here, you won't be able to sign a contract with them, especially one that can be long-term, up to two months, since you can't sign a contract with them from 31 December. I would also like to say a few words about the task. General policy coordination: this would be the task of this said Ministry in the future when there is no separate Ministry of Education, no separate Ministry of Health, no State Secretary for Health, no separate Ministry of Environment, and so on. I could list a lot of professional tasks that have substantial work to do, a substantial task, but you seem to consider propaganda more important and have a separate ministry for it. Yes, we cannot agree with the personal proposal itself, because we believe that it is clearly linked to the offshore companies in question, clearly linked to scandalous asset management measures, and clearly linked to the scandalous spending of EU funds. The question that has been raised at the TAB meeting, as in the general debate, is whether the opposition has the right to express its opinion on this issue at all, or whether we must, motorically, vote in favour of what the government is putting before us, we believe that, yes, we have the right not only to say it in the debate, but we still have the right not to vote on this issue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-12-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk about two very important things. One is that my colleague, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, submitted an amendment and I am very, very sorry that this amendment was voted out by the Justice Committee, because this amendment would have made this law better. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs's amendment is coherently linked to what Viktor Orbán said to make it a smaller and cheaper state, as he suggested that this new ministry should have a department and a department head here, as the minister would most likely be a genius who could perform this task alone. Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs suggested that the Ministry be made up of one person, the minister. You voted against this, even though we believe that the new minister could perform this task and that it could be cheaper on the part of the government. The other thing that came up at the Legislative Committee is that not so long ago, a few months ago, we discussed a law that was about settlement bonds and referred any problems related to settlement bonds to the Economic Commission. Thus, the law referred to the Economic Commission the problems relating to settlement bonds. We still didn't understand how the settlement policy was fully linked to the Economic Commission, and then we realized that it was probably the head of the Economic Commission that brought him here, and that was Antal Rogán. Therefore, it is now likely that the things relating to settlement bonds will be brought before the House at some point and transferred to the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, because that is where Rogán Antal will handle these settlement bonds from now on. And I'm gonna draw your attention to the fact that there's gonna be a gap here if you don't bring in this law. As a hundred, we tried to make this law better, we tried to comply with the cheap state so that the Minister could perform this task - we failed. As my fellow Member has already mentioned, we found the pro-government comment that said that the opposition has no right to speak on this issue an outrage at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, questioning why we are even talking about this matter, especially how we dare to do such a skandal to put forward a legislative proposal. They said it was exclusively the government's right to determine the structure, but that's not what the law says. As much as you shape the laws, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have the same obligation to comply with the Hungarian laws in force, and under the Hungarian laws in force, you are here before the House to approve this, so that the entire Parliament approves this structural change, and if you wish to have it approved by Parliament, then allow us to at least have the right to comment on this issue and to express our opposition on this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have already said in the general debate that we consider it a bit of an expensive gift from Viktor Orbán to reward Antal Rogán for receiving a separate ministry, and what is more, we have also objected to the fact that because Lazarus and Rogán are unable to get along, they must work in an organised system. [[12.30]] Then we now see, in the context of the amendments, that there seems to be a State Secretary who actually works within the framework of this Ministry, but directly under the supervision of the Prime Minister. I suppose we're talking about another Secretary of State who can't cooperate with Antal Rogán, and that's why we had to pull him out of this hierarchy. So, this is indeed the grotesque category, Mr Secretary of State - just a little bit expensive for the Hungarian taxpayers. So, you could have given Antal Rogán a little less than that, thanking him for his loyalty. This is why we support, among other things, Jobbik's proposal that he should be only one minister and that he should receive a ministerial salary - I think it is a pretty nice gift too - and that he should not have to pay an entire apparatus for all of this to Hungarian citizens, because it is absolutely unnecessary. If, indeed, we have already said this in the general debate, we should have a government transformation, for example, the creation of a self health ministry or the creation of an independent educational wallet, that would be justified. The fact that they're setting up a propagandaistry is completely unwarranted. I'll tell you again, you can thank fellow warriors for their loyalty at a cheaper rate. The other thing I would like to say is that in this respect, it would still not be too late to think about the fact that, at least once a ministerial wallet has been created, Mr Rogán should be a minister without a wallet, for example. There is this institution, for example, we would much rather see it. It is much cheaper to keep a minister without a wallet - if it is unnecessary anyway - than to keep an apparatus. Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office to send, if possible, a State Secretary and Deputy State Secretary who at least understands what it is, who is at least able to grasp the two-to-three series amendments tabled by opposition parties. Neither the Secretary of State nor the Deputy Secretary of State understood it. The problem was not that he did not support it, but that he could not understand what the legislative problem was, the codification problem. Then, as my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó said, they took this home, and you submitted a virtually, in terms of its importance, the same amendment that we made at the time, it seems that the apparatus is able to understand where the codification problem is. Mr Secretary of State, I would ask that next time you send colleagues to the commission who are at least aware of the basic rules of the profession, and not necessarily who are politically appointed and have no idea what they are doing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to support this proposal, once again. Basically, we find it wrong. I would also like to mention, with a sentence, what my better fellow Member has said about whether the opposition has the opportunity or the right to dispute such legislation, as regards the restructuring of the governance structure. Formally, I think that there is no debate between us, perhaps not even with you, that the law makes this possible, so we will. The other thing I would like to say in comparison to this is that the restructuring that is acceptable or unacceptable to us, but it is indeed about restructuring, is something that we usually support, precisely because we agree that it is essentially the responsibility of the government to work in what structure. But when it is clear that this amendment was not motivated here by the restructuring of the structure, but by the ability, once again, to give a ministerial seat to a loyal man, it is indeed the opposition's duty to attempt to prevent the adoption of this proposal and to try to get you to better understand. And the third point in this regard is that I would ask you that, after you have adopted a one-party constitution that you have only supported, after you have created two-thirds laws without minimum negotiation, then you should be happy not to raise that argument once again. Because you would have had the opportunity to do the constitutionalization, and you would have had the opportunity in the two-thirds laws alone to take this subject out of your legislative powers and make it a government function. That's not what you did, so from now on, you'll have to ignore that argument. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. One important question remains, in sports terms, I would like to borrow the classic sentence of László Palik: but where did Antal Rogán go? After all, Antal Rogán did not honour us during the general debate, nor now, by showing himself here. You would have 17 minutes to comment and tell us what his plans for this new ministry are, trying to convince the opposition that they might support this law, but Antal Rogán was not here, and even left spectacularly when the debate on this law began, in the general debate as it is now. I guess he'll come in and vote for himself to become a minister. This shows, by the way, and the arrogance of what we can do, and you can say whatever you can do, whatever you want, we will still vote for what we want; that arrogance that characterizes your governance in the past. This is how much you are interested in the opinion of the opposition, and you are so constructive, it has been possible to work with you in the last five years, as is the case here with Antal Rogán's disappearance. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think what you guys are doing is a toaster. I do not dispute that it is the government's right, opportunity and responsibility to establish its own structural system. That's not on the table, but I have to say face toaster. It's an facial toaster because it's not a story of something born within the government, drawn on the basis of a strategic goal in the interest of the people, but of two people who don't understand each other, for example, we know very well: it's about János Lázár and Antal Rogán, they don't understand each other, so what do we do, make a ministry for both of them. Moreover, what my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said is that they cannot even properly prepare the system of regulation, because he does not directly supervise one of his State Secretarys in the scope of the new minister to be appointed; he is assigned to the Prime Minister. It's practically raised on the one hand and crushed on the other. The biggest problem I see in this story is that, I say, while you have the degree of freedom in how and how you arrange the story structurally, you use it to resolve any conflict within your own faction to bring ministries to life, to put a velvet chair under anyone. I do not think that this is in Hungary's best interests and shows arrogance. It also shows arrogance, because it sends a message not only to the parliamentary parties but to the whole country that you can say anything, you can do anything, we'll do what we want. On this issue, they did not want to hear the opposition's defence, nor did they want to hear it. If the opposition had an opinion, they were rejected from their hips, or they did not even bother to put forward substantive grounds for rejection. There's no need to overdo this story. If we look at how, say, from the budgetary side, they have supported this thinking that they want to bring to life, then it is quite clear and clear that it does not. In line with the law, a four-and-a-half general justification was provided in the budget and another four-and-a-half-row explanation. Both four and a half lines are literally identical, by the way, the general and detailed justification, in which they explain that the budgetary background, the source - of course they have the right - will be decided by the government. They do not even give a chance to make it visible between Parliament's walls, to show, to discuss the resources they concentrate on carrying out this task; while they do not necessarily deploy existing resources for other tasks. Well, that's the arrogance you do. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[12.40]]
u2015-10-12-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó has applied for a speech, independent. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Of course, the governing parties and the government have the right to set up a ministerial structure with the majority of Parliament that they want, and the opposition parties have the right to criticise it. We have done this for our part, and we will do it for the future. However, we think very strongly that because two people are unable to work with each other, they are not willing to work with each other, they are not to work with taxpayers' money, they do not need to create separate ministries, but to discuss this with each other, preferably with a coffee or a beer. I do not think that taxpayers' money should be wasted on taking money from areas that would be much more important - education, health, long-term - with such unsolved problems, so I can only say on this proposal that, as a whole, the representatives of the Joint Union will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate on behalf of the authors. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-12-41	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Just now, when you called on me, Mr President, I would have said on behalf of the government that the government supports the single proposal of the Legislative Committee. I would like to say a few more things here in the spirit of the repeated general debate, as honourable Members have repeated what they have said in the general debate. We have never debated that, through the freedom to transform the structure of the government, the opposition should not be able to express its opinion on this; I think that the person who did this did it wrong. The government's position is that all critical comments in the spirit of freedom of organisation should be heard, and then the government will decide what it wants to do for effective governance. As far as the budgetary issue is concerned, under the Public Finance Act, the government has the possibility of redeploying, so there is no need to worry about the budget in this respect. What I would like to say, when it comes to what other wallets should be created, I remember the Minister of the Secret Service from the time of socialist government, and I also remember the Minister of Health, consider the blessed activity of Ágnes Horváth, who bought the safes, and then who knows where they ended up, the closure of OPNI, where the unfortunate people were put on the street, and I could tell you more. So the effectiveness of governance does not depend on whether a sector has a ministry, but on how it does its work; so there was an example of the Ministry of Health and how it did its work. Dear fellow Members, Finally, I would like to say that it is the government's position, and here I would rebut the assumptions that you have made here many times that Antal Rogán - and I would also reject the false allegations about his person - and János Lázár does not speak to each other. Some Members were here the other day talking about the bureaucracy reduction program, talking to each other for nearly an hour and sitting next to each other. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That doesn't mean anything.]] So that in itself contradicted your arguments, and I think it is completely unnecessary to bring them up. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] The government's aim -- you may already have your opinion, Mrs Viedűs -- is that the government's aim is effective governance, and it has created this ministry. I ask you to consider, however, what has been said so far, and to support this transformation.
u2015-10-12-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 follows a debate. T/6290. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, whether he would like to speak on behalf of the authors now or later. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Later, yes. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur, so now it is up to its representatives to address the time frame on the agenda. There is no natural possibility of two-minute comments during the debate, since there is a time-frame negotiation. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-12-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6290 amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 The revision of the internal functioning and structural structure of government work, namely the creation of the new Ministry, the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, calls for discussion. In Annex 1 to the Act, the Chapter of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister is added to the adoption of the proposed amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a lucky position to have been part of both the debate in Parliament and the debate in the Committee on the Budget, to participate in these meetings, so with regard to opposition contributions and statements of opinion that have been heard during the debates, I think it is perhaps important to say or to ask the question in every way that I do not know or believe that political correctness or political etiquette or civility can in any way try to tell the government how to establish its own mechanism of operation and its internal structure, in addition to the wording of the criticisms that it raises. This, I believe, must be and always be an internal competence of the government in every democratic state, including Hungary. And here, as Members of Parliament, what we have to do in the first place is to decide whether or not we will be in favour of them, whether or not we will be discussing legislative amendments to the change of governance structure. I think it may also be important to point out that, in fact, with the creation of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, a new government body is indeed being created. It will not be the creation of a specialised department, and certainly not a gigaministérium, as we have heard earlier in the general debate, but, in particular, by helping the Prime Minister to do his work, a ministry of political coordination will want to carry out its task. It is also important to say that, in the past, every prime minister had a press office, a communication office, a cabinet office or a cabinet staff; I think that the current government body becoming a ministry level is nothing else in this regard but a technical change. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that we can see similar solutions and similar applications for many international examples - Germany, England or France. So in any case, I think that if the government considers this to be appropriate according to its internal rules of operation, then the Members of Parliament - of course after the debate - should support this in any way, I think, within the framework of political correctness, it would be appropriate to support it. But back to the point, as has already been said in the joint joint general debate on 29 September and also in the detailed debate held and concluded by the Committee on Budgets on 6 October, the provision of resources arising from the creation of a new chapter will be settled later by the government, in accordance with the laws in force and it is important to emphasise this. Since this provision provides for the establishment of a new Ministry, it is also why this House has been called T/6291. XX of 2014 on the list of ministries in Hungary Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. In conjunction with the bill amending the law, it discussed these legislative proposals in the form of a joint debate. [[12.50]] During the in-depth debate on the bill at the Budget Committee meeting on 6 October, only one amendment was tabled, namely on behalf of Congresswoman Hegedűs, but the basically technical proposal was not supported by the Committee and no further amendment was made. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said in the general parliamentary debate of the bill, I believe that ensuring effective, effective and successful government work is in the interests of the whole country, the interests of all Hungarians, including our interests, regardless of where the horseshoe is politically located. And even if the socialists are smiling at this, well, I think they were in the government, and perhaps they were right to expect the opposition to have this kind of constructivism. I believe that such proposals should not make it an appropriate place for day-to-day political battle, which is why I am asking my fellow Members to support the legislative amendment before us in the interests of constructive and responsible decision-making. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-12-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The call to life of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office as a ministry obviously brings with it that the budget, as it is a new chapter, needs to be allocated resources. As I said earlier, the four-and-a-half lines of this bill, which are also a general justification and a detailed explanation, are literally the same as each other. This also shows how consistent and carefully they do what is necessary to justify the matter, rather than taking the liberty of not having the government decide between the walls of Parliament to just lock itself in a room on these issues, to secure the background of resources. You have the right, and I do not dispute that, but from your point of view, it would be more appropriate to discuss the implications of this on the source page in front of the public of Parliament. You wish to accept something by putting a blank on other people's tables. No one can see what kind of resource demand appears, and in the meantime, of course, he gives his vote, his support for this story. That's nonsense! The other part of the story, which has already been mentioned today, is that when the budget was revised for the 2015 budget last week, when the separation of HUF 60 billion, plus 1 billion to the Ministry of the Interior, plus 47 billion to insurance within the framework of MTVA, NHH, the figures were brought here and showed how they thought about this issue. Now they do not wish to do so in connection with the call to life of this Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, the Ministry. I don't know why not. Or because they are absolutely unprepared in this story, or because they are afraid of the public, even of the small one they were able to shrink and squeeze, for example, the public of Parliament. They fear it, because people will face the fact that, well, they want to provide the Ministry led by Antal Rogán with resources of this or such magnitude, say, for the two, two and a half months ahead of us, and of course, it does not show how and how this is planned for 2016. You know, when areas of expertise such as health, education or employment, the world of work and many other things, social affairs do not have an independent economic role, a ministerial background, then the emphasis is placed on ensuring that their propaganda can be enforced as much as possible, so they call a quasi-propagandaministry into existence, and they do not even want to agree on the budgetary background of this, so again I can say that it is rather distasteful. Moreover, when I think about what has happened to the public in recent years and how, in terms of influencing people, government resources have been used to achieve political goals, posters have been thrown down the road, I do not even begin to debate and press on the content and content of the public or the opposite of it, I must say that, after such experiences, it is obvious that doubt, mistrust, in the other representatives of the parliamentary horseshoe, is turning to your future government decision. But you can't deny this story forever. Although the decision can be made, it is possible to call to life that the Ministry will be formed, and the government will decide on the scale of the resources in a sloppy and sloppy manner, but sooner or later it will become clear and clear what the magnitude of what you want to put behind this propagandaistery. And they should not be afraid that they will not be properly prepared, if appropriate, for opposition representatives sitting within the walls of Parliament, to keep an open eye on the extent to which the use of these resources is linked to government work or to the extent to which it serves as a party political activity. Naturally, in all respects, we will go forward with the power to show people that contradiction and torso, which, where appropriate, will devote the use of government resources directly to the achievement of the goals of Fidesz. If I didn't want to oversell the story, I would say one thing: if you were a little brave and a little bit important to you about the opinions and opinions of others, you would have brought the budgetary implications of this new Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, Ministry, within the framework of the new chapter, both for 2015 and 2016. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am in the fortunate position that, contrary to the general debate, the House is not now discussing the detailed discussion of these two coherent legislative proposals, which is why I have the opportunity and the opportunity to respond to the Secretary of State. I would like to refer to the shortcomings of the budget law in a sentence or two. Namely the Aht. Indeed, it creates a way and opportunity for the government to transfer between chapters. Except the Aht. You do this by thinking you're assuming that these are already existing chapters. I respectfully report that there is no XXI in the 2016 Budget Act. Chapter 3, so it will not be possible to transfer to any place. Therefore, I think I am still right about the need for outside assistance in the government's legislative work. That is why we have drawn attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the fact that it is not enough to amend the 2015 Budget Act in terms of making an empty line, but also to amend the 2016 Budget Act. There's no such thing as a two-month ministry! The Ministry of Tiszavirág, we call it that - is born and dies already. On December 31, the window can be closed unless the 2016 Finance Act is amended separately. I obviously don't want anything good for the government - if I may make such a simple criticism - but it is not good and rewarding politically for you to have this debate again in the House when the 2016 Budget Act needs to be amended. [[13.00]] Or is this going to be in a salad law? In a number of sub-paragraphs, it is accidentally noted that, and in connection with a completely different law, this 2016 budget law will also be amended and there will be a XXI. Chapter 1? So, I think that in this regard, yes, if you were serious about this whole ministry and thought that you would do real work and meaningful work in it, then you would dare to confront the public about how much it would cost taxpayers this year and next year, and dare to stand before us with numbers. Mr Banai, Minister of State, as I said in my previous speech, when we amended the 2015 Budget Act in connection with another law, he boasted that a budget law itself weighs 12 kilos, not to mention the closing report, it weighs at least 12 kilos, and in these 12 kilos it does not even include a multitude of background studies, but how detailed it is, such a law, because it contains so much, so meticulously and in detail it reveals to the public how public funds will be spent. Nevertheless, you are a complete ministry, which - now we know - will be made up of State Secretarys, Departments and Departments, and you do not wish to disclose your budget to the public. And I would also like to say - I regret that Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács is no longer in the position to answer me, because otherwise I would have listened to his reply in this regard - that, yes, Antal Rogán himself would have had the opportunity - I might add, even now - to answer himself personally and to defend himself personally. I fear that you are not doing this because you are not here, either, in the previous bill, a few minutes ago, or even in the general debate, because you would not really know what to say about these debates. He also probably believes that he has meaningful contacts with offshore companies, which can receive citizenship in Hungary in connection with the settlement policy, as he was the one who provided them with this possibility. Yes, OLAF was probably also right when it found that, at the time of Antal Rogán's mayorship, personalised public procurements were carried out in the downtown of Budapest, i.e. in the V. district municipality, so that certain works had been overcharged in connection with these personalised public procurements. Obviously, the reason Antal Rogán is not here is because he has nothing to say about these accusations in these debates, but he would just say that, yes, OLAF is right, unfortunately, with the public funds irresponsiblely, so that I do not say that we managed in a corrupt way. And yes, with regard to the personal criticism of Andy Vajna, he could hardly say how it is that our film commissioner gets more and more tax breaks every year, as a quasi-gift from the government; and the cross-comfort to say that what is going on between them, and what clarifies their personal political merger, can make it clear to us and to the general public that these tax incentives are indeed personal donations from the government to a Landlord. Yes, we still miss Antal Rogán here, but the fact that he is not here is an answer: yes, he is all guilty of these matters. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, Dear Secretary of State, It is still unclear to us what the heads of department, the heads of department will do in this ministry, what work they will do, what task they will perform, and, of course, what resources are still attached to this. A few questions have been raised in me, though it would have been better if Antal Rogán was here in person: how will Antal Rogán lead this ministry, if he could not complete a declaration of fortune, not even for repeated attempts? I would add that the answer may be that this is why we need the Ministry, because we need four State Secretarys and several heads of department to prevent the Minister from making such mistakes again. So, it's ridiculous. You just know what's wrong? You can't laugh at that, people at home, voters don't laugh at it, they just see that billions are being wasted on unnecessary things, if necessary, they create ministries for their dear friends in two days, just to keep their mouth shut and, I might add, not to remedy people's everyday problems. So, thank you very much for making a man a ministry for the sole reason that his statement of assets is in order. Let's hope he doesn't make any mistakes after this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-12-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju has applied for a speech, independent. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-12-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, This proposal has a content which is unacceptable to the representatives of the Democratic Coalition in itself. It is obvious that they want to create a ministry that, in fact, if I want to put it mildly, is about blowing steam on the whistles instead of the wheels, because otherwise, the situation of the country is such that it needs to be covered, and people just have to listen to all the nonsense they have to listen to in government propaganda, either in booklets or in TV commercials. But there may be another approach to this. The government of Viktor Orbán will boast about the creation of the second propagandaistery of Europe: the first one was led by Goebbels, and the second one will be led by Antal Rogán. It is not a question of money for you to create this. Of course, their organizational life is shaped as they want it to be referred to as too much, but one thing is quite certain that this lie factory, which is being built here, which they want to create with the national consultative secretary of state, does not belong to the circle that could be supported. Therefore, we call on the government to stop brainwashing the Hungarian people in this respect and not to create a separate ministry for what they are trying to cover up. For example, Hungary's economic competitiveness has deteriorated significantly during your activities, there is no Ministry of Health and education is also in ruins. What you're doing is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-10-12-53	Yes, thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-54	Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have ten minutes.
u2015-10-12-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate was quite unworthy, I must say, and as if the debate was not about the title, subject matter and content of the proposal. This current debate should have been about amending the budget law, and we could have been involved in a harsh, personal, offensive debate, which was also unworthy and seriously violated the authority of the Parliament. I can tell Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that the amendment to the 2016 Budget Act is a separate issue. I also said in the Commission's debate that when we get there, we will also amend the 2016 budget. We are talking about amending the 2015 budget, because we need to create a chapter that allows a new independent ministry to operate within the government. But this is still a question that we could overlook, but unfortunately, you, like your socialist and independent fellow Member, have been harshly personalized and insulted by Antal Rogán. In the beginning, it is not a question of whether you consider someone qualified as a minister or not. That was not the subject of this bill, it must be said in the previous bill that another ministry should be established, or another ministry should not be established. The subject of this debate was now how to amend the budget law, and why a new chapter should be created. After that, you're here to personalize and invite Antal Rogán to his grave, and I don't know what you're talking about, Congresswoman, and I definitely have to decline. [[13.10]] It's not up to you to decide who you think you're qualified to be a minister. The Prime Minister has a government, the Prime Minister has the right to determine the governance structure, the right to determine who he works with within a government, and if the Prime Minister wishes to work with Antal Rogán, it is his personal right. Moreover, Members do not have the right to vote, so they do not have the right to decide. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: They still have voting rights!]] So I'm asking you very nicely, Congresswoman, not to make it personal in Parliament. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who did not say a stinking word about the proposal and the amendment of the budget law, can say the same thing. The lucky thing is, when Antal Rogán here pulls out his asset statement, he doesn't remember how conveniently Gábor Simon was treated, who didn't write a number or write a data in his asset statement, but as if he had forgotten hundreds of millions in a bank account in Vienna. Perhaps this should be the case for the poor, always with such a great deal of concern for Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who told her own story, and then, as if she had done well, left the meeting room. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We are not used to debate! It's not like that.]] And I can tell Congressman Varju that he should be ashamed of himself. Shame on you, Your Honour. You, raised in the breasts of the MSZMP KB agitprop class, here goebbels and propagandamineisterium, shame on you, shame on you, Congressman. This is unworthy of the Parliament that you are comparing the new Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister to the Propagandaministery of Goebbels, while this has nothing to do with the presentation before us. So what I can tell you, Congressman, is that you should be ashamed of yourself and follow both the Prime Minister and Antal Rogán, because this is the most ignominious, shameful parallel that Goebbels has compared the new Ministry now standing up, and I have not heard from the history of Hungarian democracy in the last 25 years. So, regardless of this outrageous debate, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill, which is a very short bill, and what is about creating a new chapter in the 2015 budget, with their vote. [[A statement from the opposition: No! There's no need!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-56	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1998 XI Act on Lawyers. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. Presentation submitted by Gergely Bárándy, MSZP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Pál Völner Fidesz; Imre Vejkey, KDNP, Members T/6569. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 10 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 6 minutes for a statement by the representative of the Government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 7-7 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, rapporteur on the agenda... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That would be me right now! I'd be your representative in the opening statement right now.]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[István Tukacs: That's not what it says to the President!]] I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, rapporteur on the agenda. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that he has a total time frame of ten minutes for his speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. So you'd be kind enough to schedule your time frame. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Mr. President...]] To my left, I would like to ask my fellow Members not to disturb the meeting. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I would have tried to present it!]] Thank you for your attention and concern. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-57	I would like to make a point of order. After a five-party proposal, the authors agreed that two, one pro-government and one opposition MPs would use the opportunity to present and close; in five minutes we would share this opportunity with Mr Gergely Bárándy and he would present it.
u2015-10-12-58	Thank you, Congressman. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Let us be clear: how is this, Mr President? Can you do that? I can't; I'm done.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bárándy. After the decision of the Legislative Committee had not been translated, a disciplined leader insisted on his own scenario. So I'm gonna ask the Legislative Committee to give me some substantial information next time. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps this initial confusion can also be because there has been no precedent for a long time, and I am pleased that it is now, and I sincerely hope that there will be a future, that we can negotiate a proposal as a five-party proposal before the Parliament, and that the proposal is in agreement with all the groups. I would therefore like to make a brief comment on the proposal in the expose. The reason for submitting the proposal was that the renewal of the Budapest Bar Association was annulled by the court. Therefore, since the final judgment, there has been an exlex situation in which it is not known who is entitled to exercise the powers of the Chamber's bodies and officials. Because life doesn't stop, this situation needs to be resolved. It was also a question of what will happen to the decisions taken since the final judgment, whether they are maintained or not in force - it is also necessary to settle this by legislative means as soon as possible, which is why all parliamentary parties have contributed to the possibility of negotiating this proposal by way of a house rule. Important issues must be decided, honourable Members, such as the recruitment of lawyers, the conduct of disciplinary proceedings or the recruitment or education of candidates for lawyers, and, of course, the financial issues raised by the Chamber in the meantime. Here, we cannot wait for the fact that, in several months' time, there will be a legitimately and legally elected new office in the Budapest Bar Association. There are two virtues, I think, of the proposal that I would like to highlight. One is that all parliamentary parties were interested in maintaining and preserving autonomy, a chamber with a history of 140 years, even for a transitional period. For example, there was no mention of the appointment of a government commissioner or any other similar method for the Bar Association, so even in the transitional period, the Chamber of Laws retains its autonomy as the President of the National Bar Association, or its presidency or management, to designate the legal bodies within the framework of other chambers, or, where appropriate, the lawyers or lawyers who will replace the bodies or officials of the Budapest Bar Association during this transitional period. The other great virtue, honourable Members, of this proposal, in addition to the fact that all five parties agreed from a professional point of view that this is a good solution, that during the discussions the President of the National Bar Association gave his support for this proposal, he found it satisfactory and good in a professional sense, and he also asked the parliamentary parties to submit it. Of course, everyone has and may have an opinion on how well the style developed in recent years in the Bar elections is in line with the 140-year-old Bar tradition; I hope that there will be a recovery, an improvement, and a change. However, this part of the question is not for the legislator; it is for the legislator to try to make this so-called exlex state one that is suitable for the functioning of the judiciary and, in particular, of the bar of attorneys in accordance with the expectations of citizens, according to the expectations of the law firm and the citizens seeking rights. [[13.20]] I am convinced that this proposal can replace this gap, and from here I wish to the Budapest Bar Association, and then to the later appointed body organising the bar elections, so that they can hold a successful chamber election as soon as possible, where full legal order can be restored. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-12-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, according to the agreement, the authors have asked Mr Pál Völner to make the closing statement. You have six minutes for the congressman to say the closing word. I'll ask Secretary Mariann Water East to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Water East on Mariann's signal:]] Here you go. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The submitted bill aims to serve both judicial interests and the preservation of public body autonomy. Under the current law of law, the Minister of Justice exercises legal supervision over the operation of the regional chambers and the Hungarian Bar Association. In this context, it shall check the statutes, regulations, guidelines and decisions of the chambers and their compliance with the laws, statutes and regulations. In this capacity, the Minister calls on the Chamber to terminate the violation of the law, on the basis of which the Chamber concerned, whether regional or Hungarian Bar Association, is obliged to terminate the violation of the law or to inform the Minister of its disagreement. If the Chamber concerned does not terminate the infringement, the Minister may refer the matter to a court within the time limit laid down by law. However, the power of the Minister is limited: it is not entitled to ensure the functioning of the Chamber, instead of or on behalf of chamber officials, in accordance with the autonomy of the public body, which is highly emphasised and protected by international lawyers' organisations. This means that the general assembly is not entitled to be convened in relation to the regional chambers or the Hungarian Bar Association. It is therefore essential to decide whether there is a body that can carry out these tasks; who is entitled to convene the general assembly; who is to be called by the minister, who should be dealt with. A legal situation may arise when it becomes uncertain whether there is a validly elected official in a Chamber. In this legal situation, there is no clear guidance from the law in force, nor is there a clearly applicable legal analogy. Dear Parliament, The functioning of the Bar - whether regional or national - is of high social and judicial interest. Let us consider that the Board of Chambers of Laws is acting on the basis of official procedural rules when deciding on the admission of lawyers and the termination of chamber membership, the inclusion in various lists of lawyers, the initiation of a conflict of interest procedure or the interruption of the activities of lawyers. The full meeting of the Hungarian Bar Association also carries out the task strictly necessary for the functioning of the justice system, for example, it lays down basic professional standards, decides on the rules of the chamber admission procedure or the detailed rules of the disciplinary procedure, it issues a rule on the election and recall of chamber officials. The full meeting of the Hungarian Bar Association also carries out public tasks, exercising authority over the entry in the register of lawyers and lawyers in the Chamber, and the authorisation of the cessation of legal activity. During the duration of the legal activity, the Board of the Regional Chamber may, in the first instance, conduct official controls, keep a public register, certifying the legal status of a lawyer acting in criminal matters and in legal proceedings, or issuing or withdrawing a lawyer's card. This amendment to the Law of Laws seeks to resolve two situations where a lack of regulation can lead to inability to function, thereby substantially endangering the functioning of justice. One such situation arises when the need arises for the Minister to apply a judicial supervision tool and bring an action before the court. Where there is doubt as to the validity of the decision-making body or officer or of the acts which he or she has committed, in order to ensure the performance of the chamber's public tasks, it is essential and necessary to provide legal certainty for someone else to perform these tasks. This is also the aim of the proposal, and the decision to do so will be put into the hands of the Hungarian Bar Association, keeping the absolute independence of the public body. However, there may also be other reasons why the Chamber is inoperative. In this case, it is even more necessary for the relevant regional chamber to carry out its public tasks by another regional chamber. This bill ensures the efficiency and smooth functioning of justice, maintaining public confidence in law enforcement. In view of this, the judicial portfolio supports the bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-12-62	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence, representative of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The committee discussed the bill, and indeed, it is a bill that is supported by all the parliamentary parties on the one hand, and on the other hand, which can very quickly and effectively resolve an exlex state, a state that has not yet occurred in the history of chambers. But what is delayed does not go away, so there is also a specific situation with regard to the Budapest Bar Association, which draws attention to the possibility of such cases, but the legislation and the law were not prepared for this case. It is indeed right to approach the proposal which does not take these matters out of the competence of the Chamber, so if a regional chamber becomes inoperable, but if it is kept within this system, it will create a new mechanism for decision-making, which will allow these problems to be resolved in the long term. We believe that this is a particularly important interest in the area of justice, because it is also about the provision of public tasks and an important branch of justice would be inoperable if these problems were not resolved. Therefore, it is important for the legislator to act quickly in this case and to create a situation that makes it clear to everyone how such a skeptical situation can be resolved or not to develop an exlex state, either for months, even for six months or even for years, after the court's decision. Of course, this issue is very important, so the Legislative Committee also decided to support this bill through a quick and effective negotiation, and with 32 votes in favour of the bill in a uniform manner. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-12-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a 7-7 minute timeframe for the factions and a total of 3 minutes for the independent Members. First, the Members who have made themselves known in writing will be the Members. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have made all my professional arguments during my speech as rapporteur. Of course, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.30]]
u2015-10-12-67	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/6569. Act No XI of 1998 on lawyers It is about amending or supplementing the law, essentially seeking to resolve the situation of the procedural order when the Minister of Justice, acting under the jurisdiction of judicial authority, has brought an action under the law of the General Court 123. Paragraph 2 (b) or (c). Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the high social and judicial interest in the task of the Bar as a public body, it is therefore necessary to establish a procedural system to ensure the smooth performance of the public service during the transitional period until the final court ruling. Therefore, on the basis of the principles of public body autonomy and self-regulation, the bill specifically puts the decision on this matter in the hands of the President and the Presidency of the Hungarian Bar Association, namely, the fact that the above condition has occurred and, on the other hand, the distribution of the specific task to be performed. This is in order to ensure the provision of public service tasks to a regional bar or any of its organs, which has become temporarily inoperable. Ladies and Gentlemen, This legislative solution alone does not undermine the autonomy of the 140-year-old public body of lawyers, the deployment of the above powers to any other organisation other than the barrister's chamber would undermine the public body autonomy that we intend to protect. Therefore, KDNP supports T/6569. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-12-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, When supporting the amendment of the Law on Lawyers in five parties, it may be possible to see why all parties and all political forces support it. First of all, because they want to send a crystal clear message to the outside world that all the framework conditions for professional matters - the Bar Association - are used to provide them - in all its points, politics aside, if it is a question of guaranteeing working ability, they can agree, and this is precisely the professional agreement that everyone here has expressed on behalf of the parties. What politics wants to say in the first place is that they do not wish to be instrumental or subject to any internal battle. In essence, the support is also necessary, which has been highlighted several times, so that the operationality of the Budapest Bar Chamber of Law in this case, but in a similar situation, the functionality of other chambers of the region can be guaranteed and guaranteed. If you like, there will be a temporary situation here that has more added value or more importance in the transition situation than that legislation would often take the course of criticism, but which does not show up on the proposals for solutions, where appropriate. I therefore believe that we are all right on the part of legislation to support the professional proposal. It has also been mentioned that the work of the public defenders, or the candidate training or even the chamber register, would be so damaged or faced with everyday technical difficulties that do not serve the chamber at all, or otherwise - and that should be discussed and talked about honestly, I think - neither do lawyers and chambers of attorneys are judged by people these days. The public confidence that has been put into them so far, such and similar, inability to operate in close proximity situations, is extremely detrimental to the otherwise important local government of the Chamber and is capable of undermining the confidence in the whole. Therefore, if a word can be said about it and this is important, for example, in the role of a public defender, order must be guaranteed. A correction must take place now, even on the basis of a transitional rule, and it is the guarantee of order that is primary and that what I have said must be restored, the relatively broken or broken public confidence. This could be the instrument of this proposal, and I believe that, in addition to the above - and I have also envisaged it in my speech - there is a need for a comprehensive rethink of the laws that we have already told the Ministry, and we have also expressed to the President of the Hungarian Bar Association, who was present. This is that, in addition to supporting the proposal by Jobbik, one of the conditions is that it is absolutely necessary to rethink the area of law enforcement, of all law enforcement legislation on legal activity, and of the whole. After all, we are now seeing a lot of dysfunctions in the system that were still manageable in 1998 with legislation at a certain stage of development and that were in line with the conditions at that time, but it is not in line with the current, 2015 or, or 16th year, or due to many changes in future relations. So, in addition to supporting this bill for Jobbik Hungary, we would also like it to be on the agenda that the Law on Lawyers and Lawyers is fully reformed, and in the future, the Ministry should start negotiations with the Chamber on this and move forward on a professional basis. And then, in any way, let us ask all the chambers of the field, the lawyer, to take part in it themselves, and, as this problem shows, feel much better about the Chamber, the chamber activity and the relationship of lawyers with the Chamber. So it's absolutely necessary. Overall, for chambers to function and restore public confidence, the bill is necessary, so it is absolutely justified for everyone to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated general debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, who, on behalf of the rapporteur, says the closing word within a six-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, As the speakers before me, the representatives of the national and the parties, the secretary of state, gave a detailed description of the substance of the proposal, we once again met a situation where life was not within the legal framework and this situation had to be dealt with with by this amendment. We have managed to find a solution where it is not the minister or the court who is dealing with this transition situation. Obviously, the Minister may not be granted additional permissions due to respect for the autonomy of the Chamber. And the court is unable to take action at an operational, rapid level that would deal with daily problems. With the decision taken by the National Bar Association and the territorial chamber designated by it, it has succeeded in achieving that the framework of Chamber autonomy has not been damaged, but the daily problems caused by the loss of the presidency of a regional chamber have become manageable, and within that circle, at that professional level, in the same way as in the previous period or in the other chambers, the situation can be dealt with. My fellow Members have explained in detail what caused the actuality of this amendment. However, this amendment can deal with other situations for other reasons. If, therefore, there is a natural disaster or other reason for operating difficulties which require the intervention of the National Bar Association, this proposal can be applied in the same way. Of course, what my fellow Member Luke raised is the extent to which the lawyer law written in 98 meets the challenges of today's period, this is a separate subject of debate; and indeed, if we do not have to amend a law in such a prompt manner, which has been brought about by the current situation, then, after a wide-ranging social debate and with the involvement of professional chambers, we can obviously create another piece of legislation with a uniform structure, which may be better suited to other challenges that life can bring with it. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to thank the Members of Parliament's parties for the technical and professional problem that we have managed to keep at professional level in this matter, and everyone has been able to add constructively to the proposal with which we had originally tried to deal with the matter, and we have succeeded in achieving today's opportunity to make an amendment which, hopefully, will provide a satisfactory response to the situation until the final Chamber elections have taken place. Thank you once again for your support, and I ask this House to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-72	Thank you very much, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place today. I'm going to take a break for 14 hours and 30 minutes. At 2.30 p.m., we will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. (Sunning: 13.40 - 14.37 President: Sándor Lezsák Note: Attila Móring József and Erzsébet Schmuck)
u2015-10-12-73	Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is now on the agenda. Welcome, fellow Members. Please take your seats. Gábor Bellozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is it not important? It's an address. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-10-12-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After asking Mr. Prime Minister's opinion, his point of view is why it doesn't matter to him, so, just to help him prepare for next week...
u2015-10-12-75	Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-76	I would like to ask you about the Hungarian land. Mr. Simicskó is not so competent. [[János Lázár: Thank you for the information.]] Thank you.
u2015-10-12-77	Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "The population is no longer important? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-10-12-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, During the previous EU cycle, the Hungarian government often complained that there was no possibility of using EU funds to modernise residential buildings. This justified the fact that between 2008 and 2013, only HUF 25 billion was allocated to support public energy investments. However, during the new period starting in 2014, the European Commission has made it possible to modernise residential buildings from EU sources. The Hungarian government has allocated 450 billion forints of resources to energy modernisation in the operational programmes presented to Brussels, including the renovation of residential buildings. At the beginning of the month, Minister, at an economic conference, he said that until 2020, the government will not give EU money for a retail energy modernisation programme, energy modernisation, precisely in order to cut red tape and reduce the state's expenditure in rem, public institutions will have to start. So EU money will not become a retail energy modernisation programme, said Minister. However, this is contrary to the national building energy strategy adopted by the government, in which residential energy modernisation has a strong role to play. These plans, the targets set out in the operational programmes, cannot be changed without the consent of the European Union. This is a joint agreement between the government and the European Union that these funds will be spent on investment in residential, non-refundable and energy efficiency. Tens of thousands of jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises are at risk because of falling investments. By 2020, with the renovation of 40,000 apartments a year, tens of thousands of new jobs would be created, with a budget surplus of HUF 70 billion per year. Furthermore, the country would save nearly HUF 100 billion per year of energy costs, gas imports could be reduced by 4 percent, with professional organisations stressing it. On this basis, I would like to ask Minister whether there will be a retail energy modernisation programme from EU funds. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-12-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-10-12-80	[[No sound.]] Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the congressman's question...
u2015-10-12-81	Mr. Secretary. The card should be put in. [[János Lázár: He is in place.]] Or it's the other way around.
u2015-10-12-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-12-83	Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-84	Thank you very much for the question from my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, which gives us the opportunity, for a few sentences, even for a short time, to talk about the fate of residential energy renovations. First of all, I would like to inform the Parliament that the government has actually discussed the possibility of modernising residential energy and the use of a source that is 300 billion forints in the Hungarian government's room for manoeuvre in terms of energy modernisation during the 2014-2020 EU cycle. Point 1 is that we want to modernise the institutions and facilities owned by the Hungarian State for community purposes, primarily for education, education, higher education, administrative services or health services, i.e. providing public services, in order to increase the quality of the services provided to customers and, on the other hand, we obviously want to reduce the costs in rem, which, I think, is an extremely important thing for the balance of the budget; the cheaper, the more efficient the operation of the institutions in real terms. This is the primary goal, which requires hundreds of billions of forints in Hungary at the moment. The other goal is to be able to help the population. Unfortunately, however, the European Commission has a special rule which says that the resources of the taxpayers of the European Union cannot be invested in private property. Thus, it is privately owned, regardless of whether it is an industrially built dwelling or an existing dwelling in a garden zone, to provide the owner with a source for the Hungarian government between 2014-2020, according to current EU legislation. [[14.40]] We need to find another way. In view of the fact that I fully agree with the Member on the need for energy modernisation, I will return to this in the next minute on what is the instrument that we can offer to the population. We need to spend about 150 billion on the institutions and provide about 350-400 billion to the population at least. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-12-85	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Tóth.
u2015-10-12-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand what you're saying, Minister, only on 4 June 2014, when you had a candidate for ministers hearing, why didn't you say so? At the time, he said that the government is spending HUF 1117 billion on environmental energy efficiency improvements, and I would like to spend 27% of this amount on public spending, which means the energy modernisation of the population. Those are your words, you said them yourself. If they knew that wasn't possible then why did they have to say that? However, I could quote another, Mr Zsolt Szabó, Secretary of State, who said on 5 August that it is worth waiting until spring, because then there will be money for renovating family homes. So if that was the case, they already knew why they said it; otherwise, I don't know how they think that people will be able to finance it on their own. I'm sure you know that 85 percent of the population doesn't have any savings, and in the case of 11 percent of the houses to be renovated, they say that they might be able to borrow or take credit. So it's gonna be hard to explain. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-12-87	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves Minister Lazarus.
u2015-10-12-88	I think it's easier to explain than to solve. So the real problem is the solution, not the explanation. My fellow Members in this Chamber are sitting here because they can explain everything well, it is a condition of competence. How, on the other hand, can we solve this problem? What I can tell you is that the primary issue is that the European Commission insists that we should be able to grant non-refundable support to communities, i.e. we should start from the assumption that, for example, in your settlement, a community of streets can create a form of community that the European Commission supports. I consider the viability of this to be weak, so I think that 50 percent of the EU's interest-free, interest-free support should be provided through the public banking system and 50 percent of self-employment should be possible. So 50 percent self-force from the resident and 50 percent reimbursable aid. Another important issue is how taxpayers who are left out of this renovation programme think that the state is strongly in favour of the renovation of privately owned properties. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-12-89	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will you last?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person of the response, or whether the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions.
u2015-10-12-90	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-10-12-92	I accept, thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-93	You have the floor, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2015-10-12-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, International surveys show that Hungary is trapped in corruption and is increasingly slipping down in regional comparison. During the Orbán governments, we got used to the practice that state and municipal orders usually find their homes in the surroundings of Viktor Orbán. This is also the practice of the settlement government bond that has been available since 2013, the construction that Antal Rogán himself invented. This construction is marked by his name, the purpose of which is to enable a citizen from outside the European Union to obtain a residence permit here, in Hungary, to travel and stay within the European Union. The aim is, of course, a good goal, which has aimed at increasing investment in job creation. Instead, we have seen that, with the support of offshore companies, the government has implemented the circumvention of Hungarian state funds without competition and through the distribution of the market. In two and a half years, the companies that Antal Rogán identified and beat through the Economic Commission that he had previously presided over and, of course, submitted the supporting law. Even Minister Mihály Varga had doubts about transparency. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whose interests it is in the establishment bond created by Antal Rogán. The aim is to attract investment, or to attract another Panama [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] About squandering buddy companies with state money, and what kind of relationship he's in. [[The president's ringing again.]] Antal Rogán with these companies? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[14.50]]
u2015-10-12-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to reject the demagogic, genderless slanders with which you gave the Prime Minister of Hungary. I don't think there's any need to respond to that anymore. As to the sentence that the Hungarian State would be honoured to explain in its one-minute reply what kind of Hungarian state money is being used with the settlement obligation, the essence of which is to buy Hungarian government bonds, so that Hungarian public finances are financed and with a bond that cannot be sold for five years. So the Hungarian State does not have to fear that it will be withdrawn from funding, so it is a stable security, a stable deposit for funding. Moreover, the settlement policy, the construction itself, is not a Hungarian invention, as it operates in Austria, Cyprus, the United Kingdom, Greece, Malta, Portugal, and European Union countries. There, it is accepted that natural persons can come to the country by withdrawal of funds, even later gaining citizenship and thus contributing to the economy and the crowd of investors in that country. I believe that this construction also meets these objectives. It can be found on the website of the Economic Committee according to public expectations as to how this process takes place. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Gyöngyösi.
u2015-10-12-98	Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer, of course we are aware of foreign examples, on the basis of which Hungary created this law and this law. You mentioned the Greek and Great Britain example, but I would like to record here for the sake of the protocol and for your sake that British visas can be bought for HUF 405 million in Britain; that is, it is not a residence permit, it is not a residence permit, it is a visa, it is a visa for HUF 405 million, as opposed to Hungary, which grants residence permits to foreigners for HUF 23 million. In Greece, real estate must be purchased or investments must be made and made in order to create at least ten jobs. There's a difference between your practice and foreign examples. If the aim is for Hungary to benefit from these bonds, it is typically entrusted to foreign offshore companies with no suspicious background, and also to offshore companies that have divided the market among themselves and are not even obliged to compete. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-10-12-100	Thank you, Mr. President. So he could not justify the circumvention of Hungarian state funds. That's what I asked you to justify. He couldn't justify it. It is not true that you have to buy a bond worth HUF 23 million, you have to buy a bond worth HUF 100 million. So that's not true either. Moreover, it is not true that there are companies with suspicious backgrounds, because their real ownership background must be revealed in accordance with the legislation created and only then can they start, and then the Parliament's Economic Committee can submit this request. The aim is clear and I am glad that it has confirmed that we have taken the practice from international examples, so that people can come to Hungary, who bring capital here, who create jobs and strengthen the Hungarian economy, thus strengthening the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister János Lázár, who leads the Prime Minister's Office, an immediate question. It's an address. Maybe the congressman wrote it with a question mark, maybe in a statement mode. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-12-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know if you need a question mark, and then Minister will tell you. I would like to ask Minister about the fate of state forestry. For my part, I am very pleased to note that the Kehi report has identified the maladministration that public opinion has already known for a good ten years, and there are regular concerns that serious financial abuses may occur in these public forestry economies and are not working with the greatest financial efficiency. As far as we know, and according to the press, the Minister has ordered that other public forestry farms have such a screening and control, which I am also pleased with and also feel useful. But ominous shadows mean that this is not a preparation for something. I would like you to reassure us, Minister, that state forests as unfit assets to the state and public companies themselves are not planned to be sold by the state, and not to prepare a privatisation process with these investigations. For my part, I think that strengthening the local employment role of state forest wealth, rethinking state forest management are very, very desirable, and clearly the Ministry of Agriculture, which maintains trust rights, can play a major role in this. However, there is also a press conference that says the Ministry doesn't even know about this Kehi report and didn't even know about the investigation. My question to the honourable Minister is how it will proceed, what will be the sequel. Now the further checks are being carried out, is it possible to know about a government plan, what will be the result of the next investigations, the reports so far? Obviously, we can see that the Zrts have been rigidly shut down and requested the Kehi's report for themselves. I wonder, Minister, if there is any change in the management of the state's forest management, whether any change in its vision can be expected in the light of the Kehi reports. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-12-103	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-10-12-104	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the question mark back behind the question first, and I hope that after my answer it will not be a statement, but will remain a question mark, and I hope that I can answer the question mark. The Hungarian government is convinced that the state-owned forest assets must serve a community purpose, so there can be no privateisation or privatisation. In any case, the Community objective means that society must be served by this forest wealth, and the studies concerned in part how it could contribute, for example, to the well-being of the municipalities, the communities in which these forests lie, to the forest assets. The investigation was carried out in 2014 and in 2014 the government adopted Kehi's work plan, in which Kehi was authorised to sample six forest holdings. The investigation of the six forest farms is underway, I have read the work paper, I have seen it contains nothing that could calm my fellow Members down, and after reading, I have come to the conclusion that I am extending the investigation to all 22 forestry holdings, precisely to finally pour clean water into the glass after 25 years, and to look into the whispers that my fellow Member referred to in his speech. I think it's time for us to be clear whose interests the forest farms are in the interest of. I would only share one number with Parliament at the moment, because at the moment the inquiry is not closed, I have not signed it, I have not submitted it to the government. Forint 97 billion forints of forest sales, HUF 1.7 billion of land-based subsidies were received, and 1 billion was paid into the state register as a profit, which can be used for community purposes. I think that song in itself makes you wonder. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-105	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Sallai.
u2015-10-12-106	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. One thing, if you would do for me to clarify: you were kind enough to mention forest ownership, in addition to forest ownership, I specifically mentioned not land ownership, but the Zrt itself - then it is about the fate of the Zrt.... And the other is that the asset management activity, which was mentioned by Minister: is the question of how to make better use of them for the state, because in addition to what was said, it is also a fact that 46 per cent of management and management costs have been accounted for, and the Index thus knew from the Kehi report. My reverential question is whether this Kehi report can be viewed, accessed, accessible to opposition representatives, whether it is encrypted or made public, or whether, after drawing conclusions, there is any activity of the government that might result in a reduction or rethink of the number of public companies, or if there will be any personal liability if the Kehi report is found. Thank you very much. [[15.00]]
u2015-10-12-107	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister.
u2015-10-12-108	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that these reports are not closed - and I would like to stress this - forest farms should then also have a fair opportunity to respond to the findings. The investigation concerns 2012-13 at the moment, when the Ministry of Agriculture was not the holder of ownership rights, but another wallet, so the Ministry of Agriculture was not involved in this story, because they were working on numbers and data. I, despite the fact that I cannot refute the claim that was also made in the press, that the forest farms were more expensive to the villagers than they could be bought on the local Firefield, even though the forest was at the border of the village, well, I can't disprove that statement, but I think that it is fair to do so and that the reflections that come out of the forest farms will have to be considered in the investigation. But I would like to note that the six investigations have not been completed, 22 are now in progress. Time out. Of course, as with all the Kehi investigations I have ordered, I will grant access to all Members of Parliament in the event of a closed inquiry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-109	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. A new chance for Hungarian farmers - a transparent land sale system. Minister István Nagy appointed Secretary of State for his reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2015-10-12-110	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-10-12-111	You have the floor, Congressman Balázs Győrffy.
u2015-10-12-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of this year, the Magos and the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy turned to the government without voting against, in which they initiated - by the way, hearing the farmers' request - that the government consider the possible sale of the state land. Why, how did we think of that? It was important for the government to consider this in a transparent manner, in accordance with the current legislation, without evading the property or with a proper credit facility. Why did we turn to the government with this question? We believe that, since only farmers can buy land in Hungary now, so individuals who meet the farmers' criteria - I put it in brackets, the European Union has launched a strong attack on Hungary with the aim of allowing social enterprises to buy land - this certainly seems to be a timely issue. Agriculture requires long-term planning, especially in a situation in which we are now, as the sector is about to change generations, and for a young person it is not the 20-year lease, but property that is the guarantee that it can deal with in substance with taking over the economy. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]] Now is the time to make Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian economy, competitive for the period after 2020, when competition will be much more intense. And the State, in contrast to the forest farms, does not manage the forest assets in these areas, rents them out, withdraws effective capital from the sector. It is important to note that farmers do not ask for free bread, they are willing to sell at market prices or even above for these areas. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask for information on whether we can give the Hungarian countryside a new chance in this form. Can we guarantee that no stromants are placed inside the property? Can we give financial aid to the less wealthy so that small farmers can plan bravely? Secretary of State S, I would still like to know the extent to which and on what parcels we know this programme, on which a decision is to be taken, is to be launched. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-113	Thank you very much, Congressman Győrffy. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-10-12-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I can answer you every question you ask, because the government has decided, on the proposal of Magos and the National Chamber of Agriculture, to sell some of the state-owned land to the farmers within the framework of the programme. Why did the government decide that? Because we can also talk about a historical justice, because farmers rightly ask for their property, which has been claimed and pending since 1945. In addition, there is also a hunger in Hungary, as we can see from the fact that the NFA is currently selling less than three hectares, and three or four offers are being offered in one area. Over the past year and a half, nearly 6,000 sales contracts have been concluded on about 5300 hectares of state land. This high interest also proves that it is necessary not only to be tenants, but also to be owners, that is to say, we need to implement the programme for the farmers. One of the government's objectives is to have the land for the man who makes it. Small family farms are placed in a favourable position when buying land, and they want to be supported by the initiative. Our aim is to increase the competitiveness of agriculture and to ensure predictable farming. We know very well that the Hungarian land is the best place for Hungarian farmers. About 20 percent of all state land, 300-380 thousand hectares of land would be sold, most of which are ploughers, pastures. Out of the 51,000 lots, 41,000 will be placed in a plot size of less than 10 hectares, which will be registered as a 20-year ban on disposal, a load ban and a state right to buy back. Only a natural person, a local farmer Hungarian citizen, can participate, and this guarantees that this can happen in transparent, clean conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Balázs Győrffy.
u2015-10-12-116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary, the guarantees you have listed have been reassuring. I think that the Hungarian farming community is at the door of an unprecedented opportunity to really look for future owners who are now, if any, tenants or even those who are not in these areas. It is important to know that most of these public areas are rented to two thirds of them by social enterprises, who will not have the right to purchase pre-purchases, but will have local farmers who will not be able to develop their economies without any other option. Please reassure me, Mr State Secretary, that the sales unit that has been introduced by socialist governments - we know what they have planned in Bábolna and Kerteskő - will not be involved in this programme in any way, and the government will offer a much more transparent solution. Finally, I would like to ask what was said at last week's subcommittee meeting on behalf of farmers. A number of opposition representatives have said that they would rather be supported by the state reclaiming all lands than by selling them. Well, we've seen this 50 years ago, and now no one wants it, dear opposition fellows. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-10-12-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the 23 county-righted city, land sales will take place through public auctions conducted by the metropolitan and county government offices. Only a natural person can do all this, who can bid. Competitive neutrality is ensured by the fact that there is a 2.5 percent credit facility in the background of purchases, with which all of us can obtain these land with equal competitiveness. This is a non-refundable opportunity with which every Hungarian farmer has the opportunity and the right to live. I must say to you that the opposition's attitude is very self-righteous when it constantly beats up the pro-government representatives and the government because they are pro-government. When this program is specifically designed to break down the large estate system and specifically facilitates the development of small estates, it also obstructs all of this. We will try to do everything transparently, purely for farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of State János Lázár, who is the Prime Minister's office, an immediate question:. You have the floor, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-10-12-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which he sent in a letter, but unfortunately, I must say that we are speaking side by side. It has turned out in recent weeks that the EU programme operated by Esos has failed for two reasons. One: after the completion of the investigations, it turned out that Esos was using the subsidies in an irregular way, and the other - to quote your words - was a problem: let us not sweep under the carpet, that the forest farms promised the Esos programme to provide work for these workers, but some of the forest farms have sabotaged it. [[15.10]] So the Hungarian State gave with one hand and with the other hand partly contributes to the failure of the program, so the Hungarian State was in a strong position to ensure that this programme could not finally continue successfully. However, we speak side by side, this letter also shows that there is a part of this 2800 employees who have already received their resignations, they can already turn to the county employment offices, and with some luck they may also receive care, but there is still a number of 1,400-2000 people whose employment situation has not been resolved. These people are still employed by this company, and they have not received any income for more than four months, so that this program is essentially failed by the Hungarian State. There are more questions here. I have also read the Kehi report, and the Minister has already answered several questions. How could it happen that out of a million acres of public forest land, 20,000 hectares couldn't be given to this program? How could the company managed by the Hungarian State have put these disadvantaged people in such a position? And one more question, Minister, which ministry is now under the control of forest farms? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-12-121	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-10-12-122	Thank you very much. I have tried, conscientiously and thoroughly, to look into the question that the congresswoman has asked, and I have also called together the government commissioners to resolve this issue and to discuss other matters. I specifically directed that every Esos-damaged person who lost his job should be given the opportunity to enter the system without discrimination, asking the Ministry of Human Resources and asking the Ministry of the Interior. Anyone who loses or loses their job in the market as part of employment in the market is, of course, much harder to get back into public employment today than in the previous period. Your latest suggestion was how these people could get back into public employment. My colleagues are working on getting everyone back into public employment in every county. Today, as far as I know, 400 out of 2,800 people are not fully settled, and this varies from county to county. This morning I received a report from the county of Hajdú-Bihar that there were seven people whose fate had not been resolved. We will hold another government meeting at 4:00 p.m. Wednesday afternoon, and I would be happy to invite the congresswoman to the first part of this, the rest of it, the other problems of the executive power, but in the first part, we would be happy to give you information directly on the situation of the Esos-damaged in which county and how we will try to resolve the fate of these people who are in difficulty, who are in public employment and who later rely on Esos, and thus the people in the social cooperative. This is the most important question, I think, from the point of view of all of us, that those who, in trust in the implementation of a public and cooperative programme, hoped that they would get a job there and that they would be disappointed and disappointed, should take care of their fate. I believe that is why you spoke the other day, and my fellow Members and colleagues as State Secretary are working on this to make this feasible. Secretary of State Kovács will deliver the invitation to you. As regards the forest economy, we are still examining the circumstances in which they were unable to provide sufficient work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-123	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the woman representing the floor a rebuttal answer.
u2015-10-12-124	Thank you very much, Minister, and I accept your invitation, and I will attend the meeting, but I very much hope that the seven people reported to you from Hajdú-Bihar County are not the seven people I was informed about last time, who received the termination of the employment contract and who checked in. What I'm always trying to say is that whoever's still employed is the worst worker in the world. And the other, Minister, I don't understand why it had to be four months and why it still has to be two weeks. I met more than 120 victims last week, they're in very, very bad conditions, these people are in a debt spiral, they haven't paid any overhead for four months, and the fear is that these disadvantaged people can't come out of this debt spiral if there's an immediate intervention - immediate intervention! - it doesn't happen, and I miss that from the government. The government has the means to keep it from taking weeks to solve the case. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-125	Thank you, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible for the Minister.
u2015-10-12-126	The situation was also delayed because the fate of the employment of the 2800 people is the responsibility for which a decision, a suspension of support and the closure of a programme cannot be based on press news alone. 1,800 of the 2,800 people were employed during the press news, so a program employing 2,800 people, a program that has a chance for 2,800 people, cannot be stopped by itself only on the basis of impressions, opinions or press reports. I have told you that you quoted it well, and I think partly that the responsibility of forest farms can be examined, and in part, there is no doubt that the creation of self-strength, like many other Hungarian players applying for European Union funding, has not been acquired or produced or insured here, which has led to the collapse of the programme. You and I are working together, I hope, to resolve the fate of all people, and my colleagues and I are prepared to inform you of this in detail on Wednesday and on a personal basis. Thank you for your repeated question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-127	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. When does the government provide decent housing conditions? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-10-12-128	Mr President, Dear House, In the last year, not only has rent fees increased by 40-60 percent in Budapest, but there has also been a 25-percent increase in large cities nationwide. This mainly caused and stirred up major waves within the media during the early school year, but it can be said that in the long term the emigration spiral is also based on the fact that an average Hungarian youth is actually unable to get a single home and establish his life from the average salary according to the HCSO. All of this, as we have said, stimulates emigration, pushes the family into a later stage, thus having countless negative consequences. At the same time, before the so-called economic crisis, we could say that we knew of 39-40 thousand new homes a year, since then - although in the light of statistics, the government reports economic wonders and successes - the number of newly built apartments is less than 10 thousand, and what is very rude is only 4 percent of these apartments. Therefore, Jobbik, in addition to calling the government to carry out a state-supported home-building and rental-building programme, would consider it important, in fact, to operate on at least 5% VAT reduction in housing construction, which is now 27 per cent of a record rate of VAT. This would not only create thousands of new apartments, increasing supply and broadening opportunities, but at least four times the number of homes built would create jobs in the competitive sector; it would not be public work, it would be real jobs, which would bring back the Hungarian budget of the Hungarian forints invested here. The question arises: if Jobbik puts this concept on the table year after year, if the events of real life now reflect several times that there is a huge problem, why doesn't the government act, why doesn't it group resources here, why doesn't it let the migration spiral spin, and why doesn't it stand by and watch these events? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-129	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-10-12-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I think the first task is to compare the situation at the time of the change of government in 2010 with the current situation, and if we look at the conditions for housing, we should say that the conditions have improved significantly over the last five years. They improved, because the high overhead costs are now significantly lower for Hungarian households, with a total reduction of more than 25 per cent in overhead costs, which means more than 300 billion forints for Hungarian families as savings, so they didn't have to rent that much for housing. But if we look at the issue of foreign exchange lending, it has also provided substantial help, the financial opportunities and situation of families have become more stable, the instalments have become more predictable, and families are more secure in this respect. [[15.20]] However, when we look at the situation of those in need of society, with the appearance of the National Asset Manager or the possibility of family bankruptcy, we can certainly see that the situation is also more favourable in this respect. But, of course, the number of housing constructions must continue to increase. What is encouraging is that the number of building permits is now increasing over the past year. It is a real question and a question of reducing the VAT on housing you have raised, as the Minister of National Economy has already raised this in front of the public, and the government is also considering this question in order to do so. I very much hope that when we get there, we can think together at least at this point, and Jobbik will support this initiative of the government if it comes to Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2015-10-12-132	Mr President, Dear House, The delayed applause also shows that Mr Secretary of State's reply is very thin in that he would be supported by Jobbik if there were meaningful action. Secretary of State, at best this year, 9500 newly built apartments will be built in Hungary, not thanks to you, but thanks to the remaining operators. Do you know how many apartments were built in Hungary last year according to the statement? 293. Is that what you call an increase in 293 apartments? Should young Hungarians move here from the urge to emigration? What do they do? It is simply a shame what you are talking about, it is a shame that you are not able to act in the interests of Hungarian young people and older Hungarians, and it is a shame that you listed the reduction in the costs of public utilities as a positive factor, while on the other hand, public utility companies were supported from public, tax-paying forints so that they would not fail. And if the competition sector, the market, doesn't build these apartments, let's see what the government can do. In your budget, a state-supported home-building and rental-building program has been allocated 0, or zero forints. We've been warning you for years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They shouldn't have been here, they've been in this jungle for years, but get out of it! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-133	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tallai in return.
u2015-10-12-134	Thank you, Mr. President. The Jobbik think it's all a shame. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Not everything!]] Let us not forget that while you are criticizing Hungary's economic performance in housing, Hungary's Minister of National Economy receives international recognition: Mihály Varga has been elected Minister of Finance of Eastern Central Europe by a renowned London professional newspaper. However, this is a recognition of Hungary's performance, as Minister said. But as far as the specific question is concerned, if the situation were so bad, the number of apartment purchases in Hungary would probably also go down. Instead, we find that in 2014 the apartments changed over 100,000, and this year they will reach 140-150 thousand. As for the increase, I said to increase the number of building permits. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of course, the situation could always be better, but it cannot be said that this country is moving backwards in terms of improving housing conditions. He's moving forward here, too, in small steps, and we hope to be able to report more results. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. The congressman nods his head to accept the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman Attila Móring.
u2015-10-12-136	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As winter approaches, cold weather is once again an increased threat for homeless people on the streets. Their protection has always been a great challenge to the current government. In the winter period 2014-15, the government helped those in need with more measures and increased the amount of homeless people's care by more than 10 percent from HUF 8.2 billion to HUF 9.2 billion compared to 2012-13. As in previous years, the government is introducing new measures to help people living in difficult conditions during the winter period, including strengthening street social services for homeless people. I think it is important to note that in the case of winter homelessness, there is a need for a regulation that provides real means not only for the possibility of housing in principle, but also for an effective solution in practice. In order to ensure care, it is desirable to provide predictable funding for street service organisations and to plan their work, thus providing assistance to our needy fellow citizens. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: with what source does the government support homeless organisations, in what way does it help our homeless fellow citizens who are at serious risk in winter? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-137	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-12-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that this government should be very proud of the fact that after a very tragic period of twenty years, from the point of view of homelessness, it has finally succeeded either on the foundations of the new Fundamental Law or on the basis of a new approach, on the basis of the number of people who have been frozen as homeless during the winter, to the zero, because fortunately, no one had to freeze or cool in the winter, in the cold. I think, compared to the fact that, in the previous period, especially in Budapest, Gábor Demszky, in the liberal period, there was no real aid, but merely a reference to the need to protect the freedoms of these people; first and foremost, its life must be protected, and the civilian conservative government was able to create the institutional system, support and legal background, so that we can protect these people from freezing death from winter to winter. There's a saying that you give double, you give fast. I think we could also say that he gives double, who gives in time, because this year, too, we have tried to publish on June 5th of this year, calls for proposals in which, either in the manner you mentioned, church organisations, NGOs, institutions, or in the way you mentioned, we manage the resources needed to provide homeless care with a billion forints greater than five years ago, so that every homeless person is given the opportunity to use different public services, not to be forced to spend the night on the street or not to receive food. Therefore, the various additional resources have been allocated and will all be available at the beginning of the winter period. This source is provided through the Public Foundation for the Homeless. Independent experts evaluated the application materials, which are paid by the Public Foundation for the Homeless through EMMI's licensing document, and have already started the contract. By mid-October, this will be over. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This will provide funding for complementary catering, health services, additional equipment and accommodation, as well as innovative programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-139	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman József Attila Móring.
u2015-10-12-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reassuring reply. Obviously, the root causes of homelessness should be narrowed down, but we know that this is not entirely possible, so it is extremely important for the government to pay particular attention to the care of the homeless on the street, in cooperation with local governments and organisations dealing with the homeless. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-141	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-10-12-142	Thank you very much. On average, in the winter period in the capital city and in 39 other settlements, applicants received funding for a single additional meal for 4700 homeless people every day, providing health support services for 5,000 homeless people: medicines, bandages, vitamins, vaccines, dental care, glasses, complex health screening programs. In addition, we were able to provide resources to strengthen street services. Obviously, their job is to get as many homeless shelters as possible, if necessary. So we hope that these have also helped, and in six convergence regions we have also provided resources for the operation of dispatch services. [[15.30]] So if someone makes an announcement that they're seeing a homeless man somewhere who needs help, get help as quickly as possible, the dispatch service will help with that. Forint 141 million for the organisation of care in the convergence region, HUF 45 million for the dispatch service [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] HUF 186 million will be allocated to the supply task in Central Hungary in October. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: why is the government worth 50 times the work of state executives than the work of minimum wage workers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-10-12-144	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President...
u2015-10-12-145	You have the floor.
u2015-10-12-146	Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, I tried to confront you on an immediate issue with statements made in opposition regarding the need to radically reduce unacceptablely high salaries, which are clearly in conflict with the recently announced salary increase of state corporate leaders in some areas: 5 million monthly payments in the banking sector and 3-4 million in others. Secretary of State, you justified the 180-degree turn of events by saying that the country is doing better, and that the state executives have done a lot for improving economic performance, and that the first reason why we had to raise the salaries of the leaders was because if they were not paid, the country would lose good professionals. However, this is also true of the millions of workers who have done everything in recent years to make the country better. Among them, there are good professionals, including health, social or nursery workers, who leave the country by thousands because of low salaries. From the growth that you're raising executive salaries, 80 percent of people don't sense anything. The net minimum wage has barely increased in the last five years, public sector wages have been frozen for the seventh year, real earnings have not yet reached the level before the crisis in the public sector. Half of the workers earn below the living threshold, even less than the minimum living. My question is: is the government really worth 50 times the head of a state company than a public employee with minimum wage? When are substantial steps taken for hundreds of thousands of workers earning a minimum living? Thank you for your answer in advance.
u2015-10-12-147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-10-12-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you're a low-level opposition [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] This method is used when comparing the wages and income of minimum wage workers and state managers. I say this because, if necessary, it compares the wages of an uneducated, untrained person with the performance of a highly qualified, highly skilled, well-educated man with considerable work experience, who controls thousands of people for billions of forints. You would do well and fairly if you compared this man's salary, the salary of this state manager, with a man of the same rank on the market, but you would be surprised because the state manager makes 3-4 times less money than that man. Otherwise, it would act correctly and fairly as an opposition if it compared the income of this man at international level - comparing it with wages in the Czech Republic or with wages in Poland or Slovakia. But he doesn't do that, because if he compares the wages of Hungarian CEOs, then he can see that the income of Hungarian state managers is significantly - significantly! - multiple times lower than in these countries. I do say that Hungary, with 3.7 percent economic growth in the last year, is at the forefront of Europe, including the performance of public companies and the performance of state company managers. Therefore, after five years of living on bread and water, they, together with the country's performance, deserve to earn a higher income. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-149	Thank you very much. The congresswoman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-10-12-150	Secretary of State, I would very much like to suggest to you that when the next time health workers and social workers go out on the street and ask the government to raise their salaries, and not just give them allowances and supplements, you step out on the pulpit and tell them that Erzsébet Schmuck has put this unacceptable situation to you with a low question. But by the way, if you keep counting, it's not only 50 times the difference, because, for example, in the banking sector, there are 5 million monthly salaries, plus bonuses and other benefits, so your monthly earnings could be up to HUF 10 million - that's a hundred times the difference. We do not believe that a hundred times the difference between the salary of minimum wage workers and the salaries of state leaders can be allowed in Hungary today.
u2015-10-12-151	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-12-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This can be stepped up [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] 'Cause the idea of people who have a lot of salary and who's too tall can be done with you. For you, your income is ten times as much as a man on a minimum wage. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Not a hundred times!]] What does the minimum wage man say? You don't deserve this tenfold income. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Not a hundred times!]] However, if your income is compared at international level with that of the Members of Parliament of other countries, then your income is interestingly modest and lower. If you're telling me that people need higher wages, and that's based on economic performance, you're right. But if you're doing this by looking for the envy factor, then, I'm sorry, I can't tell you the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Within the framework of the item on the agenda, the last immediate question will be taken and subsequent decisions will be taken. Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office for an immediate question: "Stop the church destruction in Bonyhád! A government that calls itself Christian-Conservative can't do that! It's an address. In response, Mr L. Simon László was appointed Secretary of State. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[On Dr. Tamás Bellozó's signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman Belling.
u2015-10-12-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, last week, as a Member of Parliament in Tolna County, I sent a letter to Minister János Lázár, who also oversees government offices to be kind in this matter. I also wrote to him that there is no party political issue in this. The fact is that a medieval Gothic Hungarian church was discovered not exactly two weeks ago during the construction of Route 6, which was probably destroyed by or as a cause of some natural phenomenon during the Turkish ravage, and in the last half-thousand years it has remained underground without any intervention on this, so we are talking about a unique finding in this respect. Since then, people have known this only as Hungarian Pompeii in public opinion. We can't accept what we received as an official answer. It has turned out since the Hungarian government made its own decision, not that it is an EU investment. Therefore, this cannot be the reason why they want to cover this archaeological artifact so quickly. We don't yet have the discovery of this archaeological artifact, whoever claims anything, and we know that the official bodies are simply trying to cover it up, and they're using asphalt roads to dissect it, which, we think, is simply barbaric and unacceptable. We do not ask for more than to help the government, in case it does not get all the information to give the profession at least a chance to complete the exploration of this archaeological artifact, and the Architect's department will have a chance to redesign the connection of this access road to Route 6 so that this otherwise unique artifact will not be underground again for the next half a millennium. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-10-12-155	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-10-12-156	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Some things, however, need to be clarified at the beginning. [[15.40]] Last week, the Rómer Flóris Memorial Conference was held at the National Museum. Flóris Rómer was born 200 years ago, the father of Hungarian archaeology, one of the greatest figures in Hungarian cultural history, and it is no accident that the government also named an important programme about him for the future. I mention the person of Flóris Rómer because it was also said at this conference that it was known from Flóris Rómer that Aquincum was famous as a Hungarian Pompeii. They've been talking in the press for the past few weeks. The foundations of a medieval church were partially revealed, and later it was named Hungarian Pompeii, while Hungarian Pompeii was actually in Hungarian cultural history Aquincum. If someone says to ruins near Bonyhád that it is the Hungarian Pompeii, then either they do not know what is in Pompeii, what has happened in Pompeii, what is involved in ruins and archaeological artifacts, or they do not know what they have found in Bonyhád; in worse cases, they are not aware of either. So accurate knowledge of reality is very important for us to have the right position. Honourable Congressman, In addition to Bonyhád, a medieval church was indeed found, but not a church, as you said in your title, to stop the church destruction in Bonyhád! They found the foundation of a temple. In addition, they could only partially uncover this, since it is not under the built roundabout or in its place, but some of it reaches under the currently used main road 6. So if we're going to uncover this whole church remains, church ruins, we're going to have to change the trail of the current Route 6. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I mean, you're gonna have to take out Route 6 and move it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-157	Thank you very much. It's time for a one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bell.
u2015-10-12-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. I think you were also a cultural secretary of state, weren't you? Then you could have read so much that it was called Hungarian Pompeii - which I also drew your attention to - because, because of natural phenomena, this church has been covered for the past 500 years, which, in its original state, left this medieval Hungarian Catholic gothic church of posterity without any intervention, Mr. Secretary of State. It is a scandal that the municipality of Bonyhád does not move its ears, as it is likely that financial accounting is more important to him than the only medieval artifact found in the vicinity of that city. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Scandal, Mr. Secretary, that this is your answer instead of saying thank you, the state will stop building the road in its own power, we will uncover this unique treasure, and we will think about how we can move the road, Mr. Secretary, because it is not a problem, it is an opportunity for the people living there. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And it could be an important point in the whole country's cultural heritage. No problem. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-12-159	Thank you, Congressman. Secretary of State L. Simon László also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-10-12-160	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The problem is, he didn't listen to me, but he didn't have a way to do that because my two minutes were up, so he couldn't hear the second, meaningful part of the answer. Once again, honourable Member, I have just drawn attention to the fact that the Hungarian name Pompeii is protected in Hungarian cultural history, which is already known. But if you're not aware of that, ask István Hiller, because he knows it. In Pompeii, an entire settlement was swept away by the eruption of the volcano, and here the Turks destroyed a temple, and sometime after the Turkish destruction, the environment of the ruin was filled with mud. You think it's probably the same church base covered in mud that's in Pompeii, but it's not the same. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's the end result!]] What I can tell you, honourable Member, is that we are open to a solution. Although the decision at first instance, which is not yet final, has been removed from the Government Office, the Prime Minister's Office will certainly do everything in its power to extend the deadlines in order to complete archaeological exploration during the second stage procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. We'll move on to the decision-making process. Please check your card. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the Statute establishing the European Space Agency, T/6399. Final vote of bill No. 1. [[It's ringing.]] Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6399 accepts it. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes in favour, against and without abstention. It follows from the publication of the T/6400 Agreement between the States Parties to the Statute establishing a European Space Agency and the European Space Agency on the protection and exchange of classified information. Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6400. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, against and without abstention. Following is the T/6402 on the announcement by individual European governments of the use of Ariane, Vega and Soyuz launchers from the Guyana Space Centre. Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6402. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The 15th amendment to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Rome of 4 November 1950 follows a series of amendments. T/6403 on the publication of the Protocol Final vote of bill No. 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6403. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 162 votes in favour, against and without abstention. The 2014 XX. on the list of the ministries of Hungary follows a series. Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. T/6291. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote on the legislative proposal No. T/6291/6. by serial number and summary report by T/6291/7. by serial number. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain the amendment No 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed to maintain the amendment No 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 115 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6291/6. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes to 26, with five abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6291/8. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 110 votes in favour, 30 against, with 1 abstention. [[15.50]] It follows that Act C of 2014 amending Act C on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will be T/6290. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 112 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6290. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 111 votes in favour, 52 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1998 XI Act on Lawyers. T/6569. Final vote of bill No. 1. I would remind you that, according to our decision today, the bill is being discussed by Parliament by way of house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6569 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now, at 3:53 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I'll give the meeting to Vice President Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-10-12-162	Welcome. We will continue our work with interpellations. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. If he knew there were irregularities at the Institute for Reserve Management, why did he allow hundreds of millions of public funds to be brokered? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am sorry that this answer is left to you, because it was intended specifically for Minister Fazekas, but I think he will try to cope with this task. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So far, we've succeeded with all of them.]] According to the fact-finding report published recently, the Minister knew exactly what was going on at one of his back-up institutions weeks before the brokerage scandal started. The leaders of this company have always been his trusted men who have committed serial irregularities according to the article. They used to buy rotten potatoes for billions of dollars from the government secretary's advisor, which they subsequently tried to launder with a government decision. We filed a complaint in this case two years ago, and we look forward to the results of the investigation.In July 2013 it happened, which was never the case with TIG before. Unusually, the company concluded a portfolio contract with the Hungária Securities Trading House for HUF 1.6 billion at high prices. According to the article, this was not only found out by the data subjects, but is supported by an internal use document. The public company did not invest 1.6 billion in discount bonds purchased from brokers and banks since 2009, but in Hungaria securities. They did so without making any risk analysis or any other recommended comparison. It also turned out that there was a period in 2014, when TIG held HUF 2.7 million in such risky paper at Hungária. The leaders appointed by the Minister have constantly broken all the existing rules, risking the entire working capital funding of the institution they run, in the hope of small profits. After all, the documents also show that the managers concerned knew exactly the risk. Secretary of State, according to the writing, the Minister was aware of what happened in the TIG long before the brokerage started, as he was informed of this already in early February, and a executive summary was prepared, stating precisely that there were irregular investments in the TIG. I ask you, what were they waiting for? Why didn't the minister take immediate action to protect public money? Doesn't it seem odd that the Deputy Secretary of State of the portfolio came to the Ministry from the later bankrupt brokerage company, and then the Ministry institution that he supervised invested billions in this financial service provider? We also need to know what the real damage is. The Minister promised an in-depth investigation in the spring and, at the end of this, accurate information. When is this going to happen? You're not covering criminals, are you, Secretary of State? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-12-164	Thank you very much. Secretary of State István Nagy responds, please.
u2015-10-12-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I do not, and I do not, feel honoured, to comment on the news published in the press in front of the public in this House, but I would like to take into account all the statements you have made. As you say, it's a fact-finding article, so let's stick to the facts. TIG Nonprofit Kft. He bought securities against the ban of the Ministry of Rural Development at the time, which the author of the newspaper article generously forgets to mention. So I repeat: it was already a general prohibition in writing in the Ministry of Rural Development that any company and background institution belonging to the Ministry of Rural Development should keep their money with a securities manager other than the Hungarian Treasury. The Ministry of Rural Development also informed TIG Nonfprofit Kft in writing in October 2013. driving. Hungária Securities Ltd. On 6 March 2015, he informed TIG Nonprofit Kft. that he could not pay for the money he had held there. Following this, on 9 March 2015, the Minister instructed Dr. Attila István Simon, Minister of State, to examine why the company had failed to implement the former Ministry's and subsequent Prime Minister's instructions. However, at the same time, following the request of TIG's supervisory board, the TIG's manager conducted an internal investigation, the result of which was notified to the shareholder on 31 March. On 1 April 2015, the Ministry was able to act as a shareholder and to order a full investigation on 1 April 2015 following the completion of the internal investigation of the company. [[16.00]] On 10 April 2015, on the basis of the investigation, the Administrative Secretary of State filed a complaint against an unknown unsub concerning the suspicion of a criminal offence of a particularly high financial disadvantage of fraudulent treatment. The Ministry, as a practitioner of ownership powers, acquitted TIG's Deputy General Executive Director and Deputy Chief Economic and Operating Officer, who was responsible for this matter. In addition, he terminated contracts with the company's auditor and lawyer and recalled the members of the board of supervisors. On the question of the Deputy State Secretary's conflict of interest, I can inform you that Andrea Szele Király worked as back office manager at the company between October 2009 and May 2013. In this job, he did not have direct contact with customers, he did not have the task of managing investments. As regards recent developments, I can tell you that according to the Ministry of Agriculture's Organisational and Operational Rules, asset management is not a function of the Deputy State Secretary responsible for economic affairs, so TIG Nonprofit Kft was not in contact as a professional director of the Ministry. in matters relating to its management. In relation to the investigative actions following the complaint, I would like to propose to the Member and also ask him to contact the competent authorities. As regards the damage value, I inform you that the Metropolitan Court ordered Hungária Securities Investment and Securities Trading Ltd. He appointed the Financial Stability and Settlement Nonprofit Ltd. as the insolvency administrator. TIG Nonprofit Kft. it has submitted its claim in due time, and the exact value of the damage will be determined later on after liquidation. Thank you for the attention of my fellow Members, and I ask you, Member, to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-166	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Haughty if he'll accept the answer. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]]
u2015-10-12-167	Thank you, Mr. President. The situation is worse than I thought, Mr. Secretary of State, because it is obvious that if a minister appoints friends to lead such important businesses, it is quite a problem, because friends seem to have failed to implement what he said; they did not think seriously that they could not do business in their own pockets. With regard to the Deputy Secretary of State, what you said, Mr. Secretary, is also quite exciting, because I understand that she did not work directly in this area, but did it ever occur to anyone that this investment might have been because she had worked there earlier? Did they even ask you about that? I'm sure you won't tell me, but I hope the investigating authorities do this thoroughly, and find out what's going on. The weird thing is, you know, where there's a scandal, there's always about the same personal circle. I don't laugh at them, but it's in the newspaper article. It also makes me wonder how a minister can surround himself with such people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In fact, perhaps we should also consider whether he can remain a minister after this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-12-168	If I take it correctly from the Member's words, he did not accept the answer. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I didn't accept it.]] I figured it out. [[Defiance.]] In that case, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, And when do teachers teach? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Another step in the abuse of educators is the creation of teachers' self-esteem groups, the abbreviation of which, in the interests of the dignity of the House, I do not even say. The administrative burden of teachers is also very high in international comparison, with the number of teachers assisting in pedagogical work being one third of the OECD average. These control teams will be responsible for preparing and uploading the annual self-assessment plan to the online interface operated by the Education Office, preparing and planning self-assessment, informing teachers, parents, students, preparing and supporting teachers involved in self-assessment. Teachers participating in the evaluation also put their experience online and should upload their own self-esteem to stakeholders. Self-assessment includes document analysis, observation, interviews and questionnaires. They also look at the educational and institutional self-esteem evaluation papers for educators, the curriculum, the thematic, clock and other work plans, the diary and the study booklets. The evaluators come in for classes, occupations, and talk to the teacher and the head of the institution. Based on the results, teachers should prepare an individual self-development plan for two years in consultation with the leader. If this were not enough, the assessment of the parents could not, of course, fail, although in one of the debates of the Public Education Act, they were called layman by a pro-government politician, who argued in favour of restricting their say in school life. Teachers have to evaluate their colleagues according to about ten aspects, which I no longer list, because there is obviously no doubt about the thoroughness of the evaluation. I don't want to give you any tips, but looking at more useful tasks, it would be a mistake not to assess, for example, how the consumption of crayons in the lower class has evolved since the change of regime, how the register of school buffets affects mathematical skills, or how many astronauts and princesses leave the labour market within 20 years. All of this, therefore, is the bureaucratic pressure imposed on teachers from above, with the free extra work of some teachers. The government's approach is characterised by a lack of trust and an increase in administrative burdens, with continuous restrictions on the professional freedom of teachers. Why not give them more help to deal with children and spend more time on education and teaching? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-170	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to the Congresswoman. Here.
u2015-10-12-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think the third time I have come up with the question about one of your speeches is that I once again see Hungarian Bálint strings coming out of Jobbik's ranks. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Jobbik sometimes misinterprets the opposition, and that means a general rejection of the governing parties in relation to all kinds of professional assumptions, which have already been discussed twice. Here is another chapter in the cryback of the Hungarian Bálint self-esteem system [[Dóra Dúró's intervention.]] in Jobbik's education policy, when it reaches back to liberal roots that it otherwise denies. I would warn Jobbik that just because he wants to oppose the government's position, he should repeat what Bálint Magyar and the Liberal Party said five to ten years ago in the same Parliament, or he introduced a system that this government had to review after 2010. We see that the professionalism of the opposition in this area extends to a three-letter word, which, of course, does not appear in law, but has been renamed since we could talk about the substance instead of such tasteless jokes. What's the point of all this? Which you forgot to say a single word about. Better involvement of parents, bringing them closer to the school, so that parents can give an opinion on how the institution or individual teachers teach how their children are raised. Can you agree with that? I hope you can agree. Then I think we got off to a good start on this trip. The other purpose of this is: there are teachers who put their hearts and souls into the work, and they really have a very good quality of all their watches, every day they prepare for school, they have the heart to raise the next generation, and there are others who obviously don't take it that seriously. And what we want with the system of evaluation is that those who really work with heart and soul as educators should have a better rating, even in their salary. Who makes more sacrifices, who pays more attention, who uploads his portfolio, who asks for his qualification, who is rated better by parents, directors and colleagues in the course of school supervision or self-assessment, should have the opportunity to be recognised, have the opportunity to advance. When you reject this measure of government by using Hungarian Bálint, you reject precisely the involvement of parents and precisely the emphasis of well-working, conscientiously working people. There are three steps, three stages of this quality assurance system, or you can say that: self-assessment, school supervision and qualification itself. This outlines the path of continuous professional development for both teachers and institutions, and we obviously did not make this up for the first time in world history. If you look into it, Madam Member, in February 2001 the European Parliament and the Council issued a recommendation on European cooperation in the evaluation of the quality of school education, 14 years ago. This is exactly the same recommendation; it is obviously a softer category than a specific decision or a specific piece of legislation, but nevertheless it is proposed and envisaged for Europe as a whole. [[16.10]] That is why, according to these uniform standards, we have tried to build this Hungarian system as well, according to public data. I think we all agree that children's performance needs to be improved, because several surveys have demonstrated what the competences in Hungary may have been, perhaps, a decline in the Hungarian education system by 2011-12, although it has been legendally good for decades. However, if we want better performance from children, we also need to encourage the performance of teachers, we have to recognise their good educators, which is why we started this self-assessment process, where, of course, the educator starts self-assessment himself, but this is complemented by a watch visit, document analysis, interviewing and questionnaire survey. This has only one purpose: to improve the education of children, but, of course, in order to be optimal, we will look at 172 institutions in the autumn, that this meant exactly the additional tasks that you said or much less. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-172	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-10-12-173	Dear Secretary of State, In many of the elements of your answer, he was a liar and a crook [[Bence Rétvári: Is that all?]] I can't accept that. That the Jobbik misinterpret the opposition, I resent it. When the country was in trouble with the migrant crisis, we were the ones who were able to secure two thirds, so we are not misinterpreting the opposition. [[To Dr. István Simicskó:]] Mr. Secretary nods, thank you. [[Defiance.]] I ask you not to talk about liberal roots when, even in 2000, the Vice President of the Liberal International was Viktor Orbán. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Wow!]] If the pay of teachers had been really important to you, you would have been bound to the minimum wage, and this would not have been abolished, thus ensuring its value. Talking about differentiation is also uncredited, as everyone was classified as educators in category I at the time of the introduction of the career model. I opposed the increase in the administrative burden in my speech. I'm really sorry if you didn't understand that, so I don't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-174	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the answer. Here you go. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 30 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Why does the government not provide EU funds for the energy modernisation of residential buildings? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták's State Secretary for National Development, Secretary of State János Fónagy, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-175	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Although the subject was mentioned once today on an immediate question, we believe that due to the importance of the case, it is okay to say it again. In August, the government promised, and I quote: next spring, the application for the renovation of unconventional family houses will be launched, with a HUF 150 billion grant to renew up to 3 million houses by 2020. In the framework of the proposal under development, they support the thermal insulation of buildings, the replacement of windows and the renovation of the electricity grid, thus providing work for small and medium-sized enterprises. 40 per cent of the renovation costs will be non-refundable Union support, while the share is expected to be 45 per cent. The remaining 15 percent will come from interest-free, refundable aid. Three important things emerged from the Communication. The government considers it necessary to modernise residential buildings in energy, to provide EU support for this purpose, and the programme has already been largely approved by the EU. The fact that the Hungarian residential building stock needs to be modernised in energy cannot be disputed. According to the data of the Hungarian Energy Efficiency Institute, more than two thirds of domestic homes are energy-relatedly obsolete. A quarter of the families would upgrade over the next three years. However, 87 percent of people don't have any savings, and they can only take credit at a cost. They can't upgrade their real estate on their own without paying off the investment later. One of the biggest barriers to development is the lack of resources. The government is aware of this, because the energy modernisation of residential buildings, from which it expects three quarters of the energy savings planned by 2020, is a priority in the national building energy strategy adopted at the end of last year and included in the government decision this spring, also submitted to the European Commission. However, it is known that during the financing period starting in 2014, the European Commission has explicitly enabled the modernisation of residential buildings from EU sources. In view of all this, the announcement by Minister Lazarus on 1 October, which says that there will be no EU money for residential energy modernisation, is a public institutional programme to reduce the state's expenditure in rem. The public will have the opportunity to modernise energy partly by reducing the cost and partly by means of banking. For all these reasons, I ask the following. Why has the government changed its vision between August and October? Based on who and what background calculations? When has the EU been notified of the change? Finally, how are the energy savings targets thus met, which the government wanted to achieve largely in the housing sector? Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-10-12-176	Thank you very much. State Secretary Major is responding. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is okay to talk about this more, because it is indeed a very important issue. The government's goals haven't changed. The government continues to regard it as an extremely important objective for families to continue to reduce their overhead costs, and we also wanted and want to encourage this in the energy efficiency tender system, in particular in order to reduce domestic energy consumption. At the same time, the European Union's directives do not allow direct - and I would like to stress: direct - private use of resources for the 2014-2020 programming period. The taxpayers of the European Union do not contribute to investing these funds for private purposes. Therefore, EU support can be used primarily to modernise public buildings in the energy sector. I do not think that the representative of this woman also disputes that these are important tasks, as energy efficiency and energy efficiency improvements in health, education and public education facilities partly increase the quality of service of these facilities, but at the same time - and this is no secret - reduces their operating costs. For this reason, in order to implement the national building energy strategy and the programmes that provide various resources, the development portfolio is currently examining the possibility of what funding arrangements allow retail energy modernisation. I would like to point out that this has been the case before, which could have been financed from the CO2 quota and from domestic sources. One of the possible ways to do this is the government opinion that you have mentioned today in the walls of this House, that we are looking at the possibility of a one-third option in a 50-50-percent construction. It is also clear that the objectives aimed at reducing the burden on families have made significant progress over the past period. The "Home Gay" program started in September 2014. So far, we have implemented a series of programmes with a budget of HUF 15 billion, during which the energy efficiency of 85 thousand Hungarian households has improved. As a matter of fact, the government sees, and is currently seeing, the reduction of household energy costs in the reduction of electricity costs, which brings immediate and tangible results. These measures have resulted in some HUF 373 billion of total consumer savings between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2014, i.e. until the end of last year. [[16.20]] I believe that these amounts also prove that the government considers this important, and we intend to continue and support these processes in the future, using the options that are being examined. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-12-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the congresswoman if she will accept the answer.
u2015-10-12-179	I would have been able to accept this answer, Mr Secretary of State, if you had now promised that, if not from EU funds, as was said in August, HUF 150 billion would be available for this, if you did not now say that we would be looking at this issue, but that the budget would then be available from another source, HUF 150 billion. You know very well that energy saving and energy efficiency are important in a number of ways. It is important for families, as it represents a huge part of their monthly budget, how much they use for heating and energy. But it's also important at global level. Here will soon be the Paris Climate Summit in December, and it also says - and this is what the leaders are working on at global level - how to reduce energy in absolute terms, energy use. Energy modernisation of housing and family homes is a key issue. We're asking the government to [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to secure this promised HUF 150 billion in a different way then.
u2015-10-12-180	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Vote! Vote! [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the answer by 102 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title of "Hungarians in Family Policy" to the European Union. It's for the congresswoman. [[Noise.]] Wait a minute. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give the speaking Members the opportunity to speak in Hungarian: I am glad that everyone is speaking, but it would be better if only one spoke, and this is Mónika Dunai, Member. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A major international conference was organised at the end of September with the title of the future of families, the families of the future in Brussels. Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, Vice-President of the European Parliament and György Hölvényi, Member of the European Parliament, and I, on behalf of the Government, participated in the joint organisation of the Association of Family Organisations in the Carpathian Basin and the National Association of Large Families, on behalf of Katalin Novák, on behalf of the Group of the Fidesz Group. The aim of the event was to draw attention to the demographic challenges in Europe and the key role of families in today's society. The European Union can only renew - this was one of the most serious ideas of the international conference - if it is able to find its way back to itself, the tradition of family and work will be restored to the center of its approach to life. The solution to demographic challenges in Europe is not immigration, on the contrary, supporting families is what is the best investment in the future. The Fidesz-KDNP government is aware of the need to strengthen families, so we are working towards building a work-based and family-friendly society. Our long-term goals include halting population loss. We believe that the Hungarian birth rate must be resolved not by immigrants, but by the birth of Hungarian children. The Hungarian government is in favour of families, so it has consistently broadened the toolbox for supporting families for years. Introducing and gradually expanding family tax relief is one of the main pillars of our family policy. In addition, the Gyed extra, job protection and school support help families. Children receive free textbooks in the first three years of primary school in the system as of September 1, and 90 percent of parents do not have to pay a meal allowance in daycare and kindergartens. The feeding has become healthier, the physical education has become commonplace, so children have a future in Hungary. We also build the tax system to appreciate families with children. Hungary's family policy is also exemplary in Europe. Employees pay one of the lowest rates of personal income tax. In addition, we have helped to strengthen the safety of families by means of a multi-stage reduction. Dear Secretary of State, It was good to see these ideas at this conference, which we Hungarian rapporteurs and speakers have stressed at this conference in Brussels that they are already recognized abroad. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Hungary's policy of focusing on families. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State what constitutes a novum, an example of Hungarian family-friendly government measures in an international comparison, and what further family policy measures are expected in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-182	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. With all due respect, I'd like you all to respect the house rules to respect the time frame available. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is customary to say that negative news spreads faster and more widely than positive news. Obviously, if Hungary's family policy or any of its policies had been discussed in Brussels, the news of it would have already been all over the Hungarian press, but we can be proud that in Brussels not only Hungary is being judged, but in many cases - and more and more cases - there are press conferences recognising Hungary's results. After all, when you see the results of a measure, its consequences, you can see how much this is in Hungary's interest, and other European countries can actually take over one or other parts of it, not only as in the case of the bank tax, but also measures that are important for family policy. We hope that as many people in Europe will learn about these Hungarian laws, these new Hungarian regulatory or tax laws, and that they may take over one or more of them in their own country. In what way, I will comment on it at the end of my answer. Our Fundamental Law, our fundamental law on the protection of families, also states that the family is a kind of bridge between the past and the future, a link between generations, a basic unity and the most secure community for society as a whole, an intimate community, and therefore the protection and strengthening of families is our common cause not only as an emotional community, but also as an economic community for the state. That is why we wanted to give everyone back hope, to give everyone confidence back to the future, that they were worthy of having a child, and that those who wish to grow their family with a child should do so, and that the obstacles that were previously either material or administrative barriers should be broken down in Hungary, and those who have a family should be respected and socially recognised and supported by society. The results are visible, as the number of marriages has increased, divorces and abortions have decreased. Besides, as you know, you know, there are thousands more children now born than a few years ago. Fortunately, Hungary's population indicators have been improving for many months now. Besides, we believe that a woman is not only capable of being in one role at a time, just as a man is not only a family supporter. We believe that everyone has to take both roles at the same time, both the role of family support and the role of child rearing, in parallel, if they so wish. The Gyed extra package was the one that has been able to improve the situation of those who are having children widely, and in 2014, employers applied a HUF 9.3 billion tax reduction on average after the employment of parents with children who received 37,000 children per month, thanks to the job protection action plan. This means that all those who have taken back from the child, from the child, in those cases, we have managed to tax almost HUF 10 billion in the case of 37,000 families. One of the most vulnerable groups in employment was therefore easier to return to work, even because the number of crèches increased by 25 percent over five years, from 37 thousand to 47 thousand. But it is possible to mention the latest CSOK, the family's home-building discount, which has already been demanded by many, the first married couple's discount, the free feeding of children, which has become part of the family support, not a social measure like the free textbooks system, but, as a social measure, it is the 321 thousand families who can feed their children free of charge in kindergarten and nursery. [[16.30]] Family tax and contribution reductions, as well as a double family tax reduction for two children, are all - we trust - topics of the Budapest Demographic Forum between 5 and 7 November, and many European ministers can hear the positive results of the Hungarian example. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-10-12-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer, of course I accept that, because of the following. In 2010, Fidesz-KDNP undertook to implement a family-friendly turnaround. It's good to see that this principle, the guiding pattern, runs along the steering wheel. The Fidesz-KDNP government and the two factions will also represent this not only in the last five years in the spirit of family-friendly governance. But the budgetary impact of this series of measures is worth highlighting. In the following year, we will spend 38 percent more on family support than in 2010, with a 38 percent increase. Thank you very much, Secretary of State, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-186	Thank you very much. Congresswoman has accepted the answer, so there is no need for a vote, as appropriate. Dear Parliament, Member István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior entitled "The Dissemination Business." It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the second part of my interpellation, I would also like to give the green light to the answer in Hungarian, and I would also say that I would accept if the content of the answer would allow it. I'm saying this because what I want to talk about is serious. This is the business of citizenship, which has the characteristics in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County that non-Hungarians and non-Hungarian speakers acquire Hungarian citizenship in the accelerated naturalization process. They do so by taking advantage of the gaps in the law and, of course, taking advantage of the unquenchable desire of some mayors, notaries, or other officials for money. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Their motivations are clear: they want to obtain a passport that allows them to move freely in EU countries. By the way, the helpers may have envied the government's work, because the government operates such a thing - not with similar content, but with similar roots - only the government calls it a settlement bond. Ladies and gentlemen, This thing is now more than just an urban legend. Now the public is talking about the hundreds of applications, the vows of citizenship held during the night hours, and the phama, especially in our county, now names the people involved. I want that to happen here. I would like you to first of all, Mr Secretary of State, to tell me how a certain assessment of the national security risk has been carried out for these people, if at all. There has been some kind of inquiry - because it should - whether people who otherwise wish to have Hungarian citizenship are risking for us. Secretary of State, it would be nice to know names, or at least city names, so that people in our county know that you are aware of the problem and act. My question is obviously what. What actions guarantee that these abuses will not happen? The word "abuse" is asked to be understood in a strong quotation mark, because the activity of the participants would require a much more harsh indication. I believe that these people, not only can they not be employed as local government officials or as civil servants, but they would rather be seen in a much cooler place, especially in my county. I expect your reply to these, Mr. Secretary, which I will be patient about. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-10-12-188	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have slightly deviated from the interpellation text submitted in writing and have already spoken in a conditional manner about accepting the answer. I will answer it based on our best knowledge and knowledge, and I will try to answer all your questions so that I can advance my intentions. Honourable Congressman, Following 1 February 2013, the Immigration and Nationality Office has so far reported 288 persons who did not comply with the legal conditions for simplified localization, did not know the Hungarian language or suspected any other abuse of the national naturalisation application. And who filed the charges? The county government offices, their district offices, the local governments' notaries, the National Defence Service, and several individuals who have learned that in their surroundings there are persons who are likely to have obtained Hungarian citizenship illegally, or who have helped to obtain it illegally. 127 criminal proceedings are currently under way with the investigating authorities, and 549 proceedings have been closed so far, in several cases with an indictment proposal and a court hearing. The Immigration and Nationality Office and the cooperating bodies are responsible for ensuring legality and preventing criminal offences during the procedure. Our aim is to operate a system of assessment in which any fair and compliant application can be assessed in a favourable manner, but the granting of undue advantage is excluded by this procedure. We will continue to act with the utmost rigour of the law against those who apply for illegal naturalisation, those who want to circumvent the legislation. Bodies authorised to investigate national security risks shall fulfil their obligations in accordance with the principles of proportionality and necessity, in full compliance with the provisions of the National Security Services Act during the procedure. The police, in accordance with the Fundamental Law, will take decisive action against all criminals in all the settlements of Hungary in order to comply with the rule of law. Honourable Congressman, I'm asking you because I specifically answered all your questions to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-190	Thank you very much. Congressman, we have a rejoinder.
u2015-10-12-191	Secretary of State, to be honest, there's a lot of seduction, but there's only one problem: the chronology you told me. You talked about the charges being filed, but you didn't talk about why it could have happened, for which it was necessary to press charges at all. In English: why and how did these people acquire citizenship? Why wasn't that obvious? And in that particular very beautiful phrase in which you described the assessment of national security risks, I do not think that this procedure was thorough if there were so many. Finally, I have one small problem: where are the people who obtained Hungarian documents illegally? Are they free to roam the country, live in the same place, or what are they doing? Because if these reports really happened, I think it would be better if they were somewhere else. Mr Secretary of State, as I said, and not out of frivolity, the temptation is great, but I still think that to answer that, we should have even described a few circumstances. Thank you, Mr President, I do not accept the answer.
u2015-10-12-192	Thank you very much. Congressman resists temptation and refuses to accept the answer. What does the Parliament do? Now vote. [[Vote.]] By 98 votes in favour, 31 against, with one abstention, the Parliament accepted the reply of the Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office's Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták's State Secretary for National Development, Mr János Fónagy, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congressman Volner has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to speak to you for the sake of the people in the housing estates. On 1 October, we learned from the words of János Lázár at an economic conference that there would be no support for modernising private dwellings in the form of an energy modernisation programme. [[16.40]] The Secretary of State has just responded to a fellow Member and said that the Union does not allow Hungary to finance this directly. But it is also important to see, Mr Secretary of State, that tens of thousands of homes can be created in this way, within the framework of such a programme. The boom in construction itself brings with it the fact that people working in commerce and services live better, because if the people working in the construction industry, builders, painters, people doing a lot of different occupations, then this money goes down into the economy, and overall, there are different economic calculations for this, but the budget plus that can be produced with this measure is about HUF 70 billion, beyond providing jobs for tens of thousands of people. Jobbik also considers it very important as an environmentally conscious party that we do not use more energy than we absolutely have to, and in general it is the greenest energy Hungary does not use. And in this case, what we want to do is to continue the program we've known as Panel Plus, insulate as many of the panel houses as possible. This will enable us to provide jobs for many people, to value the Hungarian housing stock, because more valuable, energy-efficient homes will be created; we can achieve that Hungary's energy dependency will be reduced, and we will be less and less vulnerable to foreigners, as we need to buy less and less gas in this case. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, to provide the government with resources for this program. This program worked long ago, it worked very well, it saved Hungary a lot of energy. To cover this budget, it is still possible to find the source. Just think, Mr. State Secretary, that when György Matolcsy, at the head of the Hungarian National Bank, can spend more than HUF 160 billion on the sale of castles, castle renovations and various art purchases through their Pallas Athena Foundation, we are right to say that the same amount of money can be spent on a program that is so environmentally friendly and in the interest of people living in residential settlements. So I'm asking you, Mr Secretary, to represent this view within the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, For the third time this afternoon, it is said among the walls of this House that the government considers all issues relating to energy efficiency to be extremely important. I can only agree with Mr President that the construction industry itself is a very important issue both in terms of employment and in terms of production, since it does not matter what condition it is in, what lifestyle it provides for nearly 2 million people living in it. However, I can only reiterate here that the government still considers these intentions and goals important. At the same time, we must think within the framework of the resources that the European Union makes possible for us in this regard. As you said, the European Union does not allow direct private use, which is why the Ministry of Development considers it a very important task to identify the resources and structures it can invent and offer both to residents, property owners and through this and this to the Hungarian economy in order to achieve the goals you have mentioned. I am convinced that we will find these resources and constructions, which may, of course, be divided to some extent, 50 per cent or less. Private power can be a subsidised loan, it can be any other source that we can otherwise use for this purpose. I would also like to reiterate here the fact that energy saving in general, in addition to what you said, is the greenest energy we do not use, it is obvious that it also has a significant influence on the domestic costs of Hungarian families. It is no coincidence that our budget for reducing emissions started two years ago had a very serious social echo. During the two years between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 14, this fee reduction programme remained with the families for HUF 373 billion. I would like to mention, in particular, that in order to reduce the household costs of energy use, the programme started last year, i.e. in September 2014 also made it possible for some 85 thousand Hungarian households to upgrade their household equipment, and the government has been able to spend HUF 15 billion on it so far. So, Congressman, I would like to confirm to you, as you have said, that the Government considers these objectives important both in the area of energy efficiency and construction, and I believe that we will find the means to meet these objectives. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-10-12-197	Mr State Secretary, during 2011, we have repeatedly started to push for a series of steps, recognised as a reduction in overhead in Parliament, as we have seen that the high energy prices of the socialists are povertying the Hungarian population. However, I think it is also very important, Mr State Secretary, that we should not only ensure that energy is cheaper than the Hungarian homes that otherwise have a heavy heat loss, but also that we do not have to heat so much. And in order to specifically mark the Hungarian National Bank's art purchase and castle purchase programme as collateral, I would ask that the government implement this program at the expense of this amount, as it will be possible to improve the quality of life of people living in virtually millions of panels and condominiums, to assess the stock of dwellings and create jobs. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of Mr Matolcsy's castle purchase programme. I am therefore unable to accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Vote! Vote! [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the reply of the Secretary of State by 100 votes to 29, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member István Hollik, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development with the title of "Ép ép ép élet" in person. It is for Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A sound soul in the flesh - so says the Roman saying. When the Fidesz-KDNP came to the government, he changed his mind in the spirit of this saying in the field of public education and sport policy. In the previous cycle, the government established the spiritual and substantive foundations of public education, and began the other necessary part of the saying, the physical creation. In 2014, the Government decided to launch the National Public Education Infrastructure Development Programme, the National Development Ministry as its owner. The aim is to build European-class gymnasiums, classrooms and educational schools that serve the development of young people in the long term, thus helping to carry out the public education tasks of the locality. Chapter XXI of the Government It aims to provide an infrastructural background for public education in the last century, with classrooms throughout the country, gymnasiums for everyday physical education, and schooling for children's swimming. Investment also serves additional needs for demographic reasons, and also meets the legitimate modernisation requirements of the inhabitants of the settlements. These developments can contribute to the continuous development of young people's mental and physical abilities, i.e. encouraging effective learning and higher levels of sport. [[16.50]] As a result, we hope that even more,, Good students, good athletes will be able to give recognition, and we also hope that students will be able to participate in the five-ring games in Budapest as many of them as possible. On this basis, I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, how many investments in sports facilities are being prepared for everyday exercise of children, and what improvements are to be made in this regard in the near future. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-200	Thank you very much. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-201	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, the government decided to launch a national public education infrastructure development programme. The aim of the programme is to create a European-class infrastructure background for everyday physical education. Our main intention is to create gymnasiums, classrooms and educational schools across the country, which serve the public education tasks of the locality in the long term, and to meet real social needs as a substitute investment, and to help young people to develop in a healthy way, and to continue to improve the health of the Hungarian population. In the framework of the programme, 25 municipalities currently have sports facilities designed to achieve daily physical education XXI. They provide students with 20th-century physical education conditions. All children should learn to swim in accordance with the objective of the programme, 24 settlements will have training courses that meet the requirements of today's age. Following the government decision taken in 2014, the preparatory work started. The National Sports Centre has prepared the type designs for gymnasiums and schools. Subsequently, authorisation and export planning documents were drawn up taking into account the specific circumstances of the municipalities. Based on the completed design documents, the National Sports Centre has completed the building authorisation process, and the procurement procedures are currently being launched. I would like to note here that both the adoption of the type plans and the announcements have also taken into account the fact that it is one thing to build and develop something, but at the same time the settlement must maintain these facilities. Therefore, we have selected plans and, when it comes to individual criticism and individual judgement, we have released proposals and plans that can be maintained in the long term. The Ministry of Development is committed to enabling students to use the new facilities at all relevant sites during the academic year of 2016/57. The interest in the programme on the part of the municipalities is increasing as work progresses. Newer and more needs are constantly coming to the wallet, which is supported by a professionally, confirming the original objective of the programme, namely that a gym or a school is the 21st. It is not a luxury, but an integral, indispensable part of a community life, the education of young people. The Ministry of National Development determines, on the basis of local government signals, the planned directions for further development in cooperation with the Ministry of Human Resources, noting that this cooperation has been complete and successful so far. Thank you for your attention, and please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-10-12-203	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. Indeed, it cannot be emphasized enough how important this is. According to an American research, every dollar spent on sports means two dollars in future health expenditure, so it should be said that spending on a school or gym is not only important, but it is actually worth it for the state. And allow me to highlight one more aspect that cannot be emphasized enough in relation to the improvements you have mentioned: the built institutions can be used in most cases by the residents of the settlements in addition to their school hours, helping them to continue their sporty lifestyle. On this basis, thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for informing me and I accept your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-204	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr President, the Secretary of State has accepted his reply, and there is therefore no need for a vote. The last interpellation will follow today. Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What exactly costs more than 5 billion to participate in the Milan World Exhibition in Hungary? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2015-10-12-205	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that, after Mr István Hollik, I am the Member-in-Office who can express his interpellation on the subject in which there has been a long-standing dialogue between us. Why did Hungarian participation cost more than five billion people at the Milan World Exhibition? Why is this here, and why is this still a topic, Mr. Secretary of State? In the past period, you have been asked on a written question, and you have been the one to answer the questions on behalf of the Minister exactly how much the pavilion cost, what additional programmes have been carried out and why the government has had to adopt a separate supplementary budget. However, the answers to these questions left a lot to be desired, which is why my interpellation took place and, unfortunately, this must continue, because their report on the soon closing world exhibition is still missing and unacceptable. This is also the case if the government did not spend nearly two billion forints in your response, as you said in your reply. At the same time, I see that to my question about filmmaking, whether you have seen the films that have been prepared for the world's exhibition, which have not yet been known to anyone, I quote your reply from the Secretary of State: the filmmakers have submitted a copy of them to the Ministry. So I must say, Mr. Secretary, the question remains: have you seen these films? Because, by the way, in the next two weeks, the program that you published, or what you see in Milan, will not be presented. So it remains as a question: what justified the additional budget of HUF 900 million if, according to the written answer, the pavilion cost less than the planned one, and the government did not spend nearly two billion forints on the programmes implemented in the pavilion? What type of organizer's delay is that which was not able to screen movies on the deadline with five months delay and is not included in the remaining one-month programme? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2015-10-12-206	Thank you very much. The Member's question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, you have had quite an interesting rhetorical turn of events when you said that the final report of the Expo ending on 31 October, which is three weeks from now, has not yet been made, but it is unacceptable. This is both chronologically, logically and rhetorically an interesting move, but we trust, honourable Member, that you will be able to read it when the Expo itself is completed. Obviously, the events go beyond the Expo, because we did not just want to use this world exhibition in Milan to show Hungary on the spot, but we wanted to show Hungarian culture, Hungarian ingenuity, Hungarian arts as widely as possible and make it available to all visitors of the Expo, both Italy and the world. At the same time, we saw an opportunity to show the historical values of Hungarian-Italian relations, which have had artistic and economic implications for centuries. [[17.00]] I could give you a very simple answer to your question, because all the expo contracts are on kormany.hu, all of them can be studied and viewed, so that you and anyone who goes up to the Internet, the government's website, can look at and review exactly what we have spent on. We primarily used the extra resources you referred to, such as the opera festival in the centre of Milan or the organizing of the church music festival, which was held a few weeks ago; to participate in a Venetian exhibition where we were able to present Hungarian hydrology, as you know that one of the main motives of the pavilion itself is water, Hungarian water resources, the usability of water for any industrial or other purpose. So our goal was not to push Hungary into the pavilion only in the context of the world's exhibition, not only within it, but also outside, and in the coming period we are striving for this to happen, because in the coming years there will not really be a world exhibition within Europe, which is why to show ourselves in Europe, this is the last time for us and for all other European countries for a long time. I'd turn to the movies then, what you said. The movies themselves can be seen every day in the pavilion, making the movies accessible to 20-30,000 visitors. The screening started in the public media on 4 September, the first screening took place, and the viewing of these films will take place until mid-December. So you and anyone else can see these on public media channels, but if you don't want to see it there, then the Uránia National Film Theatre will launch a series of free screenings with the title "Olasz-Hungarian Heritage" from 2 October, there too. At the press centre in Milan there was a press conference on the future presentation of the possibilities of presentation abroad, in Italy, as well as on 20 October at the Hungarian Academy of Rome, everyone else who wants to see these films in Italy can see them. From this you can see that the contracts have been signed, the performances have been confirmed, the films have been completed, they have been presented and presented in both Italy, Hungary and the public media. We hope that not only here, but also a lot of Italian institutions, libraries, universities and televisions will be presented in the next few weeks at a university. And allow me to convey the invitation of Prime Minister Géza Szőcs, if you would like to see them in person, Géza Szőcs kindly invites you and shows you personally what values have been created at the World Exhibition, so that Hungary, the Hungarian national performance, will be as proud as possible, and that all other countries will acknowledge it. So please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-208	Thank you very much. I will ask Congressman László Varju if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-10-12-209	Dear Secretary of State, I am happy to comply with any invitation that relates to how the programmes spent and implemented from the tax forints paid by citizens have been implemented, even because I quote from our knowledge so far, and from your reply, on 10 September, which was sent, that this will be presented later, in the case of the exhibition closing on 30 October. So, Mr. Secretary of State, all the explanations about it, and all the reports that show you exactly what you have spent this resource, I'm prepared to do so, and I'd be happy to take a look at it. But what you have just said is unacceptable until that happens, and I cannot accept that. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-210	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to vote. [[Vote.]] By 96 votes in favour, 15 against and 15 abstentions, the Parliament adopted the Secretary of State's reply. That concludes the interpellations for the day. Here's the question. If someone can't stay here because they have absolute and urgent business, then please do not disturb the work. You've got one minute. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll start with the questions. Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: why can it not be easier and reduced to obtain a new license for machine operators with 20-30 years of experience? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták's Secretary of State, Minister of National Development, will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-10-12-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As a result of the abolition of a previous legislation, the validity of previous mustard yellow machine management licences will expire at the end of this year, and next year, those who have been handling these machines without a fault for 20-30 years will also have to obtain a new type of licence. In addition, this new driver's license requires a new OKJ exam and a course is required for OKJ training. Earlier, the person who obtained a forklift driver's license had enough to complete a 32-hour training course, and now he has to attend a 90-hour OKJ course. The problem is that it costs 100-150 thousand forints, for which there is really no support for the employees, and everyone has to do it on their own. Until then, it is okay to standardise the operator's IDs, as this will make it easier for people in the EU to work, the problem is that they will also be able to complete this course with those who have been working on the field for several decades. In other countries, this was solved by simple exchange. Moreover, the regulation shows a strange picture, as the OSH and labour directorate formally confirmed in a written resolution that the scope of the regulation only covers loading and preparation of road freight vehicles. For example, anyone loaded on racks or loaded in a warehouse will not be covered by the regulation, so he does not need to obtain a new driver's license or take a OKJ exam; I do not understand the difference between the same work anyway. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State why it is impossible to obtain a new licence with a simple exchange, because we have been talking about people working in this profession for 20-30 years. Why does moving material on the same machine, such as loading a truck, mean any other work? What is different about regulation? But if it is absolutely necessary to obtain a new ID, why not grant some kind of discount or some form of tender? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2015-10-12-212	Thank you. László Tasó, Secretary of State, please.
u2015-10-12-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fundamental purpose of the amendment to the previous regulation was to reduce the cost of obtaining the operator's licence. The KHEM Regulation No 40 of 2009 on the training and testing of operators of self-propelled lifting and loading machinery used in the road transport sector, which was conceived during the time of the Bajnai Government, already regulates the conditions for training and testing in order to bring together groups of machinery. The new operator's license thus entitles you to operate more machines than before, so the old licence does not fully cover the skills of the new licenses, therefore the examination is necessary. The new legislation provided for a period of 6 years from the date of its entry into force by the end of December 2015 for the validation of old licences and their validity. Experience has shown that a large percentage of professionals have not yet renewed the exam, so it is clear that we should strive to extend the opportunity by at least half a year. We consider that the possibilities of regulation allow this in its entirety, and it is also clear that it is worth considering how the fee could be reduced. So I'm gonna have you examined, because I think this exam fee is a little strong, so when I get to the bottom of this, I'm definitely gonna let you know. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches, sporadic applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-12-214	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "The dangers of addiction, or why do Hungarian manufacturers not have a chance to apply for development of domestic passenger transport companies? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has become the citadel of vehicle manufacturing - so many times the government boasted about it. Indeed, the figures speak for themselves, as the production of vehicles working 90 percent for export represents a tenth of GDP, but the balance sheet has two pans. It is true that automotive factories supported by 10 billion people employ a lot of people, but they also wrestle out their profits. [[17.10]] Another question, however, is that if the system of demented education and depressed wages remains, the serious shortage of professionals will be preserved, and at the end of the day, there will be no one to produce this particular profit. The scandal around Volkswagen, which can shake the entire domestic sector, has highlighted the dangers of unilateral dependence. This would be a good time for the government to realise that it should be treated differently with vehicle manufacturers of real Hungarian interest, who have been treated as stepchildren so far. In 2017, when the road passenger market in Hungary has to be opened, it is dangerously near, the old fleet of Volan companies must be modernised until then. Domestic manufacturers are looking forward to the tender, although, if you look at the shameful practice of recent years, they will continue to be pariahs in their own country. 1400 buses would be urgently needed to reduce the average age of the machinery park to ten years still competitive. Despite the cold domestic conditions, half of this quantity could still be satisfied by Hungarian producers, which are the equivalent of carpet bombing for domestic operators. The question is whether the condition of Viktor Orbán is only true of football, which is that, if we have already been among the best in the world, then our place is there again, or if it also applies to bus manufacturers. The real question is whether they receive orders from domestic transport companies at all, because without a state will, domestic bus production is over, and as many other Hungarian industry sectors that have previously produced a success story are going to their graves. Is there any chance that patriot economic policy does not just appear at word level? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-216	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó is coming, here you go.
u2015-10-12-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian industry and the Hungarian economy are moving forward not only through the production of vehicles, but also in all major manufacturing sectors, we are on a development path and we can read growth figures everywhere. We must maintain this diversity in the future, as the multi-legged industry is less vulnerable. In addition, it is also in the national economy and interest to satisfy the domestic needs of Community transport to the greatest extent possible with domestic producers and production. The need for modernisation of public transport would create a major opportunity for this, and I say and say that the models of Hungarian companies - whether Rába, Kravtex or NABI - can be well adapted to the needs of Volán companies, and there is also a number that they can produce. In fact, contrary to your question, we find that the professional set would also be available for a higher degree of production. Indeed, you were right to say that the public service contracts will expire at the end of the following year, and we naturally need to put together the invitation to tender. The NFM is responsible for this display, and I claim to you that we will establish the label in such a way that it is taken into account in any event that domestic vehicle manufacturers are placed in a slightly more advantageous position, to the extent that is naturally possible. One thing is certain that, contrary to your question, we say that there is a good chance for Hungarian, domestic vehicle production to participate, if, of course, they can compete in price and quality and in all other conditions. I trust that Hungarian producers will have the opportunity to take a very large proportion and share out of this operation. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-218	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Ikotity, please.
u2015-10-12-219	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As the school year was coming to an end, in spring the news of the 15th century shocked him as a lightning bolt. The teachers, students and parents of the Neptune Elementary School in the District of Neptune are trying to eliminate the institution. Even though they struggled with exemplary determination and perseverance, the school was eventually closed. The mayor of Gyurcsány, the Fidesz Member of Parliament, the KLIK and finally the Ministry of Human Resources, worked hand in hand to eliminate the institution that also hosts students with special educational needs. LMP has stood up for Neptune at both local and national levels, and we have put concrete proposals on the table to ensure that the institution remains. We protested loudly against the decision to make hundreds of students and the teachers' faculty's lives a completely wrong move. All our arguments were in vain, and he couldn't hear. Well, I finally figured out why. The rumors were true, which were said at the time, that it was not due to a decline in the number of students, that the rumor was true that the Chinese-Hungarian school was being installed in Neptun's building. It also turned out that a central source of HUF 750 million was intended for the renovation, even though a district proposal suggested that this could be done with 300 million. In fact, rumors are that in exchange for the sacrifice of the Neptune School, a new Chinese medical center can be set up in the district. How is the Fidesz ex-Mayor working on the closure of Neptune interested in this investment? Mr Secretary of State, whose interests do education policy really serve? What real estate business did the Ministry of Human Resources and the KLIK assist in? Indeed, the 15th century was sacrificed because of the pressure of economic and political interest groups. District Neptune School?
u2015-10-12-220	Your question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The students of the Neptun School began the new school year at Kontyfa Street School, which in recent years has been modernised with significant renovations, students, classes and student groups have remained together under a more aesthetic and energy-friendly conditions, and the further employment of teachers has taken place without obstacles, so neither the classes of children have fallen apart nor the teachers have lost their jobs. At the same time, I think it was a 42-percent school, which would have been able to operate in that building with far greater capacity than it did. In addition, the government has decided to improve the conditions for primary education in Hungarian, Chinese and to provide funds for the development of secondary education; it can also be used to renovate this school. If you have an objection to the fact that children of Chinese parents can study in Chinese in primary school in Hungary, we ask you to indicate, but I trust that this was not the motivation for your speech. In Central Europe there is an eight-class Hungarian-Chinan Two-Teaching Primary School in Hungary, in which the number of Hungarian students is currently 70 percent. The school started operating in September 2004 following the agreement of the Minister of Education of China and Hungary. Education takes place in Chinese and Hungarian languages, but they also place special emphasis on English. Their current school building is located in the middle of Gravel, the building complex needs to be renovated significantly, and its size is already small compared to the number of students in it. For both families established in Hungary - there are more than 12,000 Chinese people living in Hungary, most of them in the capital - and for students of both Hungarian and other nationalities interested, there is a great opportunity for a secondary educational institution where students will have the opportunity to learn Chinese and learn culture. The development of the existing Hungarian-China school, which has been successful for ten years, into a 12-year institution in terms of Hungarian-China relations, I believe that it is a priority, and I believe that no other two-language schools would be attacked by the LMP, and we trust that it will not. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-222	Dear Parliament, Member János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. How do consumer rights increase? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-223	Dear Secretary of State, The functioning of consumer protection that promotes conscious consumer behaviour, consumer confidence and fair market functioning is an essential condition for the social and economic sustainability of our country. New consumer protection supports the creation of a consumer environment characterised by mutual cooperation between well-informed consumers, law-abiding businesses and a strong authority providing an effective legal environment. During the spring session, Parliament amended the Consumer Protection Act, the provisions of which have already entered into force. The amendment affects the conciliation bodies' procedures on several points and the obligation for businesses to provide information to consumers is increased. The concept of online sales and service contracts has also been incorporated into the law. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: how can purchasing rights be further strengthened, and what changes are the government planning to make to the rules of procedure of the conciliation bodies that have been in place for 15 years in order to ensure more effective consumer enforcement? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-10-12-224	Thank you very much. Secretary Kara Ákos responds. Here.
u2015-10-12-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, fellow Members, Involvement of the conciliation body is mainly the simplicity, speed of the procedure and, not least, let us say, an attractive solution for consumers due to their freeness. [[17.20]] Consumers and buyers, in particular, often turn to reconciliation bodies rather than costly, time-consuming court litigation in the case of goods and services of lesser value. In September 2015, so a few weeks ago, on the basis of new regulations, the undertaking is obliged to ensure personal appearance at the conciliation board meeting by a representative who is entitled to conclude a settlement on behalf of the undertaking. Personal participation is considered to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of the individual enforcement of consumers, buyers and, overall, the conciliation body procedure. In the case where the head office or establishment of the undertaking is not registered in the county of the Chamber of Territorial Competent Conciliation Body - it is a part of the legislation that protects small enterprises - the undertaking's obligation to cooperate shall cover the offer of a written agreement appropriate to the needs of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, We gave additional licenses to customers and consumers, but at the same time we made sure that we did not impose a disproportionate burden on small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses. It is indeed an important goal, an important intention on our part, to help reconciliation bodies maintain an Internet website, to be accessible to customers, to make this a good solution, a good opportunity to settle disputes between buyers and traders even more widespread. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-226	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When do employees receive cafetheria? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, My question is simple: when do people in education receive cafetheria? When, even beyond the competence of the KLIK, before nationalisation, education workers were the responsibility of the municipalities, and education was also the responsibility of the municipalities, then in many cases these municipalities recognised the performance of teachers and technical workers with extra benefits, thus also motivating them. So was the capital of III. in my district, in my constituency, but that's how it was in all the schools where I've taught it myself. Technically, these benefits disappeared with the maintenance change, and they disappeared, even though it cannot be emphasized enough how important these cafeteria benefits were. These benefits often play a lifesaving role, and this is particularly important in the light of the fact that the salary of non-educator workers is still uneven, and the impact of the increase in teachers' wages is slow and slow. Under the current rules, these benefits would, of course, be possible, eating consent, travel support or end-of-year reward. I therefore asked you for information in the form of a written question to see how much KLIK had planned for the teacher's special application. Their answer was clear: the KLIK budget includes zero forints for the cost of the education staff's cafeteria application. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State a little further to this written question: when does the government intend to settle the cafeteria benefits for those employed in the teaching profession? And when do you intend to give cafeteria benefits to non-educator workers? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-12-228	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2015-10-12-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If the congressman asks anyone, whether they are teachers or others, what they would prefer to receive, cafeteria application or raise salary [[Zoltán Grimlock: Depends on how much a raise is!]] I think the overwhelming majority of people would say they'd rather get a raise. After all, he spends more of his salary, more of his cash on what he wants, he spends what he wants, he doesn't have any kind of entry, what he can spend, what he can buy, what he can buy, and when he can use that amount. We also thought it would be better if the billions that I was about to introduce were paid by teachers. [[Zoltán Pride: A thousand forints...]] Let's put it in the budget. This is why the salary of teachers grew by HUF 32 billion in 2013 compared to 2012, which is why it became 120 billion more in 2014 than it was in the previous year, 2013, and therefore this year by HUF 38 billion more than it was last year. So we said that we are not giving extra benefits to teachers in cafeteria applications, but we are doing a 40% wage increase, which will be incorporated into their permanent wages, which will certainly be there every year in a guaranteed way, and which can give much more recognition to the work of teachers in schools. They're the ones who do teaching in schools. There are those who did not work as teachers, you know that very well; for them, after negotiating with trade unions, a one-off 50 thousand forints plus cafeteria application was managed by the KLIK from its own budget, but this is, of course, totally independent of the fact that teachers themselves can expect a wage increase this year, next year and even in 2017 on 1 September. Now, on 1 September, there was a nearly 4 percent wage increase for teachers, in early October the teachers received their increased salary, and it is guaranteed that their salary will increase from 1 September the following year and from 1 September the following year; it is not just about cafetheria, it is about specific increases in salaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-230	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office: "Can the Liget defenders hope? With an address? On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of State for Human Resources, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, answers the question. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, While a number of fields of expertise are heavily resource-stricken, Városliget Zrt., the company responsible for implementing the Liget project, was able to manage a billion-dollar budget already in 2014 and spend more than HUF 10 billion in 2015. Thus, according to the original schedule, this year it should spend billions on certain museums. On the other hand, no contract has been concluded with the winners of the design contests that have been conducted so far. The Liget programme is constantly changing. According to the government's latest decision, most of the original list of projects has been deleted, new priorities have been set, but the urgent green area rehabilitation is still waiting for itself. Since the plan of installing the Liget has been proposed, since the war has taken place between the supporters and opponents of the construction, only from the amount of money Városliget Zrt. a significant green area development could have been carried out by the time it was spent. And let's face it: not only is the architect's profession divided because of the necessity and justification of the project, but there has also been significant civil protest in this case, for example in the form of a petition containing 20,000 signatures. Jobbik has also voiced its objection to the construction of the City Park on several occasions, but at the same time we have demanded and continue to demand the reconstruction of the Regnum Marianum church. Dear Secretary of State, Can the Liget Defenders Hope? Can citizens representing healthy public taste hope? Aren't all the program modifications meant that the Liget won't be built in, and Vajdahunyadvár won't be Andy Vajna's restaurant? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2015-10-12-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, City Park is a special park. If you look at the green surfaces of Hungary or other countries in the city, Városliget has a special feature - not only is it obviously closer to our hearts, but also objective, because here the cultural function and the green surface have always been connected. For with the Műcsarnok, the Museum of Fine Arts, the Castle of Vajdahunyad or even a few years ago, the City Park has always had a cultural function in the context of the Millennium Exhibitions, and we also believe that when it comes to development, it should mean not only a green surface improvement, green surface development, although it will also happen here, and the proportion of green surfaces will increase within the City Park, but also the cultural functions must be improved, and the buildings that in their current state ugliness the City Park and its surroundings rather than beautification, demolition or renewal. I'm thinking of the concrete Parade Square, or the Hungexpo office building, the Petőfi Hall, which didn't really have wedges and ornaments for the City Park. We could say that we should do nothing, but then we would make the same mistake - which I do not think you would like to make - that Budapest's MSZP-SZDSZ leadership in the Demszky era did for 20-25 years, when it did nothing to make the City Park itself more beautiful, livable and more enjoyable in both its functions, its recreational function and its cultural function. [[17 .30]] That is why we need to devote this billions of forints, to which you referred, to the expansion of both of these functions of the Liget. The large-scale development of the zoo, the renewal of the Romanian Hall of the Museum of Fine Arts or the renovation of the green spaces of the park is the first stage that we need to do, and obviously after that we can conclude contracts with design contests. I'm sure when the residents, the people of Budapest, see what's happening, they will realize that this was a very important development for Budapest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-234	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP:. The Americans are already in the pantry? It's an address. You have the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I wanted to draw the attention of this House on a few things, because in the course of the globalisation process, events are happening every day in the world that we cannot pay enough attention to when it is worth it. I would like to start by saying that, as part of the globalisation process, Polish farmers have the same problems as the Hungarians, and that the state there, your brother and sister, is also a right-wing government, is also starting to sell state land, which has caused many farmers to raise their voice with significantly more tractors - there is no weight restriction in front of Parliament - and many have been arrested. During today, a thousand tractors were invited to the Polish movement at ten o'clock, on which the May Other expressed solidarity with Polish farmers, and we expressed our willingness to cooperate in a letter sent, in which we said that, unfortunately, the Hungarian government is in a similar position. This is only funny because the Hungarian government has criticized the Polish government on several occasions, and it is clearly doing the same thing that is happening there. In the second part, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although Parliament does not specifically address it, our great sadness is that the negotiations of the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement are taking place day by day and there are new risks that Hungary should take action on. Obviously, there is a dual policy here that, while the government is constantly talking about GMO-freeness, the protection of the Hungarian soil and the representation of Hungarian interests, we do not see to this day that the government is clearly separated from the fact that either the Canadian Free Trade Convention, CETA or the Transatlantic Free Trade Convention, in relation to the prevention and veto of TTIP, has raised its voice in substance in the EU. This is a problem because, obviously, GMOs are a topic in Hungary that has so far been agreed on by the opposition and the government in terms of production restrictions. Nevertheless, it is obviously sad that the government at EU level is not at all trying to represent the zero tolerance principle in this respect. This is obviously also a problem because the United States of America is already in the pantry in many respects, on many other issues, and already in preparation for TTIP, our economy, our local small and medium-sized enterprises, our agriculture is at risk, and obviously not by chance the American ambition that has now been a major attack on European car manufacturing. It is obviously legitimate, and it is good that this problem has come to light, but the hopes that Hungary could come out of this free trade agreement are also becoming more and more positive. While there is a migration crisis and while the Prime Minister has brought together a coalition in Central Europe on this subject, in these free trade agreements it is not apparent that we are trying to join forces with the Visegrád countries or even the European Union, although it is obvious that these negotiations, which have resumed during the summer, are those which will have a lasting impact on Hungary's economy. It is important that we talk about these negotiation processes, because it has happened in many respects in the past period, that while the Hungarian government has constantly stood up and announced an obstacle to a matter at home, it has represented a completely opposite policy in the European Union. And yet here's a way to go, because unfortunately, there's a question of how the government's taking a stand. It would be nice not to be told that he preaches water, but drinks wine. As a result of the multi-annual efforts, Member States have worked together to ensure that, in the absence of authorisation bans, genetically modified varieties cannot be introduced into cultivation in the European Union, but some countries can decide on the authorisation of varieties themselves. At the moment, LMP has not felt this enough from the beginning, since we wanted it to be a European Union-wide ban. Nevertheless, we feel this process, this negotiation process, is very, very dangerous. We are asking the Government to detach itself in order to protect Hungarian national interests and economic interests, and the Government should also represent in its party family the opinion that this free trade agreement, the promotion of these two themes in the European Union, could expressly harm the interests of our country in the long term and therefore represent it with clear positions in the European Union. Thank you, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-10-12-236	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr László Szabó State Secretary responds. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think I have some good news for you because you don't eat your porridge as hot as you can see at first. The TTIP is about to point out that the substantive issues have not actually taken place in the negotiations, but in which we have been able to make progress, the government's position is completely clear and clear to the Commission. I can also give you good news that in the proposal for the most recent TTIP negotiations in the European Parliament, which was approved by the Commission to the negotiator, it also confirmed and recorded the issue of maintaining the GMO exemption in those guidelines. The other issue, which is questionable to us, is that the U.S. proposal of the dispute settlement mechanism is also unacceptable. Both of our positions were set out in the proposal by the European Parliament. However, the US government has made quite a step forward on the Pacific Free Trade Agreement, which is moving forward with miles of action. This Pacific Partnership Agreement was concluded with 12 parties and was announced on 5 October. Since the U.S. presidential elections are due to take place in the autumn 2016, we do not believe that the American negotiators will really begin to discuss substantive issues intensively. Of course, this does not exempt us from continuing proactively representing the protection of the Hungarian people, and I am pleased that we agree on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-12-238	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Member Fidesz, applied. You have five minutes, please.
u2015-10-12-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, on 27 September, we were able to celebrate the World Tourism Day, and the World Day analyses and evaluations report encouraging results again this year. I could also say that there is a reason to celebrate, because the sector has also succeeded in this summer's season, and fortunately the year is still not over. Tourism seems to have continued to be able to renew and expand, following its positive trends over the years. According to the latest statistics of the UN World Tourism Organization, Hungary has won second place in international tourism growth in the first half of this year. In July 2015, the number of nights spent by foreign guests increased by 12, while the number of domestic guests increased by 7.5 percent compared to a year earlier. It is also important to point out that the total number of guest traffic of commercial accommodations in guest nights increased by 9.5 percent, and that the gross turnover of accommodations at current prices increased by about 18 percent. Fortunately, the year-end forecasts are also encouraging, as after last year's record year, the industry will have another peak this year. Hungary's summer tourist offer also attracted tourists in the main season, the country's beaches hosted an unprecedented number of visitors, and the interest in cultural events and festivals again rose to the heights. It is clear that Hungary needs the outstanding performance of the sector with 9 per cent of GDP, which employs about 11 per cent of those working in the competition sector, all the more so because it has a great value-making ability not only in an economic sense. [[17.40]] A few weeks ago, the Internet was visited by a wonderful tourist image film, which presented the attractive and diverse face of our country and won the awards and recognition of international professional organizations. As a Balaton representative, it may be permissible for me to be biased if I say that the most beautiful frames of the film capture our amazing and unique lake, Balaton. With the end of the summer season, we can also safely say that this summer there was no reason to complain to the players in the tourism sector at the Hungarian sea. The figures below also reflect the efficiency of the Balaton tourism in 2015 that the gross turnover of the hotels in the Balaton region without the hotels in Hévíz was about HUF 15.9 billion, which is 7.2 percent higher than last year. In the Balaton region, 67.3 percent of hotel guest nights in January-July were domestic and 32.7 percent of foreigners. Among the largest sending countries, growth was high for British, American, Italian, Czech and French tourists, with 25, 15, 10, 8 and 7 percent growth in these countries. Of the neighbouring countries, about 13 percent came from Slovakia, 6.7 percent from Serbia and 4.3 percent from Croatia compared to the base values. On the basis of these facts, it seems logical that the tourist experts in Balaton expect in 2015 that last year's record year will be broken, and that the region will be able to make a 3-5 percent increase this time as well. Thanks to the long-term good weather, the majority of the beaches managed to increase their traffic in the summer left behind. The latest figures show that some bathing areas received 20 or even 25 percent more guests than last year. If you look at the tourist data of the town of Siófok, the town of my constituency, it is also clear that the guests spent 899 321 nights in Siófok until the end of August, taking into account the first 8 months of this year, and this is 3.9 percent more than the previous year's data. It is also clear that the proportion of foreign and domestic guests has actually hardly changed compared to recent years, and it is still typical that three out of four guests are domestic at Lake Balaton. In the recovery of domestic demand, the Széchenyi rest card introduced by the government also has a huge role to play. According to the figures so far, the SZÉP card's usage value increased by around 3.9 percent, while tourists spent 9 billion HUF 903 million in total and made use of this payment at various acceptance sites. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that strengthening tourism and an even more successful, attractive Balaton is not only in the interests of the people living there, but also in the interests of the whole country. That is why it is important to be aware of our strengths and make every effort to develop them. I hope that the positive changes in tourism in recent years will continue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, in the future, tourist areas such as Lake Balaton and its surroundings can provide a safe livelihood and a predictable existence for both the people and their families living there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-240	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Béla Glattfelder is responding. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Congressman, Thank you very much for pointing out the issue of Lake Balaton, and I would like to thank the Member for doing so much for the tourism of Lake Balaton in recent years. Indeed, this summer was very good for Lake Balaton. Domestic and foreign tourism have also grown nicely. There are two main reasons behind the growth of domestic tourism, besides that, of course, Lake Balaton is the dearest domestic holiday destination for all of us: people's incomes are growing, real wages are growing, in Hungary more and more people are working, employment has reached a record size; now people don't have to carry their money to the bank to pay back their foreign currency loans, so families simply have more incomes, so families can make better holidays in Hungary. In addition, the SZÉP card program, this government support, works well. The range of SZÉP card users has expanded, and this has stimulated domestic tourism, from which the tourism service providers on the shore of Lake Balaton have made a good profit this year. As far as foreign tourists are concerned, the picture is quite mixed, because, unfortunately, we have to say that the Russian-Ukrainian crisis has sooner or later taken effect, and Russian guest traffic has decreased somewhat, especially in the region of Hévíz, but in other areas we have managed a successful country market, and, as you have mentioned, we have achieved a significant number of visitors from several sending countries, thanks to the improved tourist offer offered by the Balaton Coast entrepreneurs to visitors. For example, it is a particularly important question for me that Germany is one of the largest sending countries to Hungary. Basically, German tourists are getting old, but it seems that they manage to attract younger generations from the government side of this year with summer event programs, concerts, and light music events, which have been very strong this year, to attract younger generations to Lake Balaton, people who have probably never been here before, so that in the longer term, German travel tourism can be maintained and perhaps strengthened. I would like to say that in the last seven years, Lake Balaton has received approximately HUF 25 billion of EU funding. Compared to this, the government plans to provide 293 billion forints of resources to the Balaton Highest Holiday Region over the next seven years, which means that it will increase by about ten times; this also shows how important it is for the government to develop tourism and the region of Lake Balaton. We need to develop attractions and experiences there. We would like to develop active tourism, especially cycling and sailing tourism. For me, it is a very important issue and a question close to me that is the development of the castles there, such as the development of the Szigliget Castle and the Castle of Nagyvázsony, and the development of the Festetics Castle in Keszthely. Sometimes the weather is bad, and then you can't bathe, so it is important to provide appropriate tourist experiences for those there at this time as well. And I would very, very much like it to be possible for us to achieve a development of natural values in Kis-Balaton from European Union sources. I hope that these improvements will be effective and will contribute to helping those who visit foreigners or Hungarians to relax there even more, to return home with good experiences, and those who live there will be able to give good living, increasing incomes and more and more jobs to tourism. I hope that we can resolve the seasonal constraints of Lake Balaton and extend the season. Obviously, longer opening hours also mean that hotels will have to be heated during the winter period. I hope that we will be able to support this in a sustainable way, using renewable energy, improving energy efficiency and, therefore, reducing costs. I would like to thank the Member once again for his suggestions and his summary, and I would also like to thank you personally for all he has done for the tourism of Lake Balaton and for the region of Siófok. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-12-242	Thank you very much. Representative Zoltán Készép, independent Member of the European Parliament, who represents the Hungarians from abroad? It's an address. You have five minutes, please.
u2015-10-12-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Nearly four years ago, the parliament granted the right to vote to Hungarian citizens abroad, and it has been a year and a half since they were able to exercise that right. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me ask you something. Raise your hand, who is sitting here thanks to the Hungarian citizens from abroad! Yes, you understand: my question is which of you owes your mandate to foreign voters. [[No one's reporting.]] Not only do I not see the hands because pro-government Members are least interested in speeches after the agenda, at the moment, as I see it, there are five in the Chamber and we are honoured by their presence. I do not see hands in the air because there is no such representative of the Hungarian Parliament. Veszprém and 24 other settlements were appointed by the electorate, but there are also Members who have more than 100 voters behind them. Millions of Hungarians live in the world, but even two hundred thousand people did not bother to register, and 130,000 did not give a valid vote. But we're talking about a lot of people, so we should at least be able to name the person who represents them. At the moment, we cannot name this man, not because we do not have such a representative, even though the new Hungarian national policy is supposed to be a historic success. Unfortunately, we now know that the votes across the border were merely meant for Fidesz to obtain more mandates, not for the actual appearance of the voice of communities across the border in the Hungarian legislation. [[17.50]] Fidesz, like all existing social groups, can only consider foreign Hungarians as instruments of its own power interests. I therefore initiate the implementation of the individual representation of Hungarians across the border, and I also submitted the bill on 8 October. A local representative who is independent of the government and opposition parties at all times and who is only in the interest of foreign Hungarians should be represented in Parliament. This would be good for Hungarians from across the border and beyond. I therefore propose that voters who do not have a Hungarian address should not be able to choose from party lists that are not of interest to them, but should choose from among them the person who can represent their interests in the Hungarian Parliament. He would be the 107th individual representative, while the number of mandates on the list would be reduced to 92. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, there is no point in discussing whether or not Hungarian citizens abroad have the right to vote. We can't argue about it because no one has the right to take the right. However, a more acceptable solution can be found for everyone. Although they have the right to vote, the current legislation does not give effective representation to foreign voters. We have to change that together. By creating a separate foreign mandate that would not belong to the parties, but to the Hungarians from abroad. He stressed the national commitment of most of my fellow Members on both government and opposition sides. If that is true, I find it difficult to imagine the arguments behind which they could say no to this initiative. Why don't you say yes? I'm looking forward to your support. This is a case that can actually strengthen national cohesion. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-12-244	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Teleki, MSZP:. Where is the national Roma cooperation? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-245	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am asking this question because it can be seen that the Roma in Hungary are at a disadvantage during the five-year government of Fidesz. This can be measured by the fact that there is no way to see where the educational programmes that have been identified in the Roma Integration Programme, where employment programmes are taking place and where health programmes are taking place. What you can see is that, in recent times, there has been nothing else to hear about the Roma issue other than the scandals of the National Roma Municipality, and I think that the public is most interested in what is happening in integration, and that Hungarian society is not interested in what is being removed or not in the National Roma Municipality. As a result, the government has a duty to continue to think about the Roma issue in Hungary or to keep the Roma in the dire situation they have already done. As a result, my question is what role the Roma should play in education. Today, you see that the scholarship system in your educational program is working well. We do not see this, and the Roma I represent do not see where it is. It was visible when the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation was able to apply for this scholarship, and you could see how many people applied for primary school, secondary school or higher education. You can't see that today. The reason you can't see it is because it is said that it is treated together with the other applications, and so the Roma students have become invisible, by the way, and also the source they want for this case. As a result, my question is whether you want to change this, and in the same way that you have been in Fidesz for a very long time at the time of the first government, that you will pay for the Hungarian Gypsies in the Public Foundation, or even if you do not call it that, but you are thinking in some other foundation, where you will have a transparent source of tax-paying citizens' money, you will pay for the scholarship system. This is not just one of the very important arguments. The second is that Roma students also become visible to the majority population in Hungary, how many people can get to college or university. If, on the other hand, this is not important for you to see the Hungarian Roma intellectuals, then you are doing very well, because then you will not be able to see where those Roma who may be able to graduate from college or university or get to high school. But in a similar way, there is a very big problem with the employment situation in the national Roma strategy, because we see nothing but the fact that in public employment, which is a very important part of the lives of many people, but I think that in long-term employment we do not see the break-out points that can be seen in how to keep Roma in different economic interests, in companies who are not only condemned to be in public employment. What, therefore, would you like to launch a programme to put the Roma in a position with the help and support of small and medium-sized enterprises or even multinationals? Because if they continue to be specifically engaged in public service tasks and public employment, then they can be said to preserve poverty and to preserve schoollessness among the Roma. Therefore, I think they also have something to do on this issue. The health situation. Very few talk about the health situation. It can be said that the Roma, as the statistics have shown, die much sooner than the non-Roma, and if we look at the EU average, the situation is even worse. As a result, I think that screening, the various health services should be dealt with, in any case, in the disadvantaged settlements that are, say, in Borsod or Szabolcs or in Szabolcs, what programs can be started there, so that those living there, who are otherwise unable to do what they can do to travel to a larger city and use screening there, how they can start screening, and how they can involve them in prevention. Because the only sure thing is that a healthy meal won't get to them, because there's nothing to buy the cheese or the ingredients for healthy food that they can eat healthyly. So, therefore, I think you have a lot to do in this matter as well. Finally, I would like to call on the Hungarian Government not to put the Roma back in all kinds of measures, and it is certainly important to grant other sources of funding for applications or investments, but it is only important that Roma integration should not be blocked. Thank you very much. [[Zoltan's ready to applaud.]]
u2015-10-12-246	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Mr Jobbik:. On the margins of the closure of the refugee camp in Debrecen, Mr Kulcsár applied for a post-meeting speech. You have five minutes, please.
u2015-10-12-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Looks like we're at the end of a long fight. A chapter in Debrecen's life was closed because the institution, known as the refugee camp on Samson Road, closed. It has to be said that Debrecen has suffered over the past few years, because while in other parts of the country there is only recently a growing migrant crisis that Europe is moaning about, people in Debrecen have experienced this problem years ago, and all the segments of this problem will be experienced. There were all these stabbings downtown, raging, raging immigrants outside and inside the camp, and it has to be mentioned, although it is not worth talking about, the DK representatives who distribute chocolate to migrants. After that, Lajos Kósa announced at a press conference ten days ago that after consulting the Minister of the Interior, he would announce the closure of the refugee camp in Debrecen. A few days later, the Ministry of the Interior communicated. In this, it was described that the opening part of the camp will be closed until the end of October, and then the deadline for the liquidation of the whole camp will be the end of this year. We were pleased to hear all this, as well as the goodies, although this measure was delayed. The Jobbik alone has been the political force who has fought hard in recent years, fought for years to close the camp, to move the camp, to close it. We held many demonstrations, numerous press conferences, and numerous speeches by the Debrecen right-wing representatives of the local government in the municipality of Debrecen. I have also argued with Mr Kontra on this issue dozens of times, and Mr Secretary of State has not once spoken about the intention of the government to close the reception centre, and has often been a misconception in response. Not to mention hundreds of millions of years of development in the reception centre in Debrecen, making the daily lives of immigrants more comfortable and supported by the government. [[18.00]] I would like to recall a few more recent examples of the behaviour of immigrants in Debrecen, and I say that this was all before the migrant crisis expanded. There was a riot inside the camp, a stabbing in the downtown with a life-threatening injury, a young Hungarian man injured, young girls were robbed by a knife by migrants, a lot of violence, harassment, fear, people in the area couldn't live in peace. But beyond that, we need to talk about loose ends. It was the tip of the iceberg, which everyone knows about, as it was national news that there was a huge scandal outside the refugee camp this June. The migrants broke out, ransacked the streets, smashed cars, set fire to dumpsters. The phama didn't say much about the hundreds of immigrants - but we can also call them intruders - who were convicted of the invaders, what was the result of the investigation, whether there were expulsions from the country, what happened to them. However, I recently learned that there was a procedure in Debrecen against young people in fear of their city, because some of them were walking around the big station in Debrecen, two of them in their hoods and photographed them, all of this on the Internet, and there was an investigation against them, while nothing was done, and there was no report. As far as I know, the police have their own jurisdiction on this case. I find that rather outrageous. Things should be weighed down, what happened that June day, and what these young people did. Nothing, in my opinion. It is also an interesting question of what will be in place of the camp, where the workers there will be employed. In addition, I would like to end by thanking the Debrecen, the people living in the area for their patience, their endurance, the police officers serving there, the local representatives of Jobbik, the representatives of the local government, the Facebook groups who heard in Debrecen and the migrant monitoring, the organisers of civil actions, highlighting the name of Gergő Keresztesi. And hopefully they'll shut down the camp for good. This has won a battle, but unfortunately not a war, because the migrant crisis will cause a lot of problems across Europe. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-12-248	On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond. Here.
u2015-10-12-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced in May this year that the reception centre in Debrecen should be closed. The government decided on 2 October and ordered the reception centre to be closed. I regret, Mr President, that you cannot sincerely welcome this step, since you complained in your post- Agenda comments, and then you listed a long list of who you would like to thank. I thought he was putting the government first, but he didn't do that. It doesn't matter, but I'm sorry that you can't be happy about it. If you were representing the interests of the citizens of Debrecen, you would be pleased to hear it, because you have said it here in Parliament many times, and you have referred to the fact that you have spoken on this issue for the Debrecen people, and I have answered it several times. I have indeed not made a promise, because we are not making a promise, but acting, honourable Member. This is what the Debrecen can see, and as far as I know, the Debrecen are truly happy about this decision. I urge you, too, to change your position and to enjoy this decision in a smooth, honest manner. I, too, take this opportunity to thank the citizens of Debrecen County City for their patience, their cooperation, their understanding, and then the city's body of representatives, its assembly, the city's officials, and everyone who has done for the Debrecens. I would like to thank the police officers who served there, the emergency officers, the staff of the Immigration and Nationality Office, everyone who has done the very difficult job they have done at the reception centre in Debrecen. I believe that this decision also clearly expresses our conviction and the practice of the government that we represent the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people in all its decisions and decisions. That's what we're going to do in the future. I ask you, Mr President, to reconsider your position and, if you really consider this matter to be important, to decide on this issue, you should be able to be genuinely pleased about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-12-250	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik, asked for a post-scheduled speech:.The army-crushing Béla Linder would also be proud of you. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is memorable how the pestian canals and Masonic lodges unleashed the possibility of national self-defense at the very end of the First World War, in the most extreme times. It is memorable that the degenerate red Count, the Minister of War of Károlyi, is the alcoholic Béla Linder, who at the time of his treason received a tomb of honor from the Serbs, as he chased away the Hungarian soldiers returning from the fronts, saying that he did not want to see any more soldiers. It is memorable that the Republic of the Council's red snowmen, without remorse, shot the increasingly shrinking country in the back of the heroes of the Szekler division protecting it from the advancing Romanian troops. Just as it is memorable how the conquering Bolshevik mob has taken their soldiers into house arrest, the most vile force of the world war, the unshakable roscars of the Somogy 44th regiment, Gyula Bauer, who brought home from the battlefields in full order and armor, so as not to prevent the demise of the Kun Béla and Samuelyk. What would have become of this country, of this nation, if not in the battle of Bratislava in 907, the hopping eliminandos esse, so that the horsemen of Árpád who destroyed the Western troops that destroyed our country must destroy the Hungarians with a cry? If there are no brave warriors like the lightning of the war, the horror of the Turks, the hero of the Nándorfehérvár triumph, Hunyadi, soldiers who had the cross of faith and the honour of the sword? If we don't have Bocskai's wild hairs, Thököly and Rákóczi's lab-beating Kurucas, if we don't have incorruptible, 48-soldiers, brave ragged gardists, our pure-spirited, 56-pest boys? But let's skip the past to today. Zakány Somogyi has been under enormous pressure for more than three weeks during the continentic migration flood of large population exchanges. It was here that the local kindergarten staff took the little ones out to the soldiers serving at the border lock, and gave the good wishes and drawings made by children to the soldiers and policemen on the spot. The noble thing caused a scandal, as the Company for Freedom Rights and according to the Eötvös Károly Institute:. The visit to the soldiers taught by the news that the need to employ soldiers in the context of the refugee situation was promoted to children in kindergarten. However, parents have the exclusive right to decide whether to give their children peaceful solutions or education to promote military conflict management and life-form, or whether or not to interfere with this kindergarten. The so-called defenders claimed an apology of an infringement, which the mayor of the settlement unfortunately did. In addition to the 70,000 illegal immigrants passing through the village, he must have missed the circus of Belpest as a pain in the ass. I wish you good luck at your work, and I would like to send you a quote from Churchill: "Don't ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, in small, or in large, ever give in to the arguments of decency and goodwill. But to these, let me add, never let me! It is profoundly outrageous that the opinion of the extreme liberals is horrified. In the spirit of genderideology, some might prefer it if in kindergarten children were not allowed to engage in sex stereotypes with toys that strengthen sexual stereotypes. Let's say little boys play soldier and little girls play dolls. In fact! For some, it would perhaps be ideal for the kindergarten teachers to read a story about the future generation, not about Sleeping Beauty, but about Józsika Csipke. For some, it would certainly be ideal for a world where crosses, Christmas trees, and bells are banned from public squares, where, in order to take account of the differences, mothers' day is banned, and where, as has already happened in Sweden, children are led under rainbow flags to all kinds of prairies. [[18.10]] Soldiers and police in the South Somogy Zakány are definitely doing their job, but with great humanity. They are protecting the security of our country, and they are trying to keep the migrant crisis from affecting the population as much as possible. They deserve all the respect and gratitude. The extreme liberals, supported by Soros, should look carefully at the country where children write messages about rockets. Thank you for your attention. [[Gergely Key Arrow applauds.]]
u2015-10-12-252	On behalf of the government, Mr Tamás Vargha will speak as Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me start with recent events instead of large-scale historical reflections, where, thanks to its exemplary service in the event of social engagement and disaster, the Hungarian Defence Office is now a recognised and exemplary institution for Hungary. Not only did it perform its basic tasks, but it also strengthened our country with its national solidarity work and charitable service today, when, in the event of a crisis caused by mass migration, the Hungarian Defence Service is organised, prepared and motivated to perform its tasks arising from the basic order, it also fulfils the tasks set out for the protection of the Schengen borders of the Hungarian and European Union. Two laws, the Hungarian Defence Act and the amendment of the law on measures that can be implemented in the special legal order, have enabled the Hungarian Defence Forces to contribute to crisis management and border police tasks here in Hungary, in accordance with the rules of the crisis caused by mass immigration, to which we must immediately add that the Hungarian Defence Forces have not withdrawn or revoked the tasks and powers of the police. This does not affect the constitutional position of the police, the police are responsible for border surveillance and border police duties. In addition to its existing tasks during the crisis caused by mass immigration, the Hungarian Defence Office is involved in the surveillance of the state border, the implementation of the conflict situation that directly endangers the order of the state and the measures necessary to manage migration, and the elimination of acts of violence against the state border. We can therefore say that the designated forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the southern part of the country provide support for police forces with the readiness to use the necessary and sufficient forces, by establishing close cooperation. In addition, the Hungarian Defence Forces continuously monitor border events and the situation, and proactively raises the level of preparedness and assigns its forces and means in order to ensure that, if there is one, it is able to perform its state border closing tasks most effectively as soon as possible. At the same time, we would like to contribute to Europe's understanding of its extraordinary efforts during Hungary's migration crisis management, and perhaps Czech soldiers will be the first to arrive in our country in order to cooperate with Hungarian soldiers in preparation and exchange of experiences in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration. Of course, they will not have the power to take action in the implementation of specific border police tasks. Thus, the Hungarian soldiers, with their professional tasks at our southern borders, prove their preparedness and vocation every day. So we can say that I think that we need the Hungarian Army, the Hungarian soldiers and the service of the soldiers, and if there is a lesson in the historical events of the past, then it is a lesson that the soldiers must never, at any time, be released into the wind. We also thank soldiers, soldiers, and not least their families, loved ones, and we are proud to say that the people living there, the small and the great, the old and the young, welcome the soldiers, and try to help their work as a sign of solidarity and respect, and sometimes also give gifts to the soldiers. We thank the local authorities, including my city, Székesfehérvár, which, with its support of HUF 10 million, allows us to buy mobile Wi-Fi tools to help the contacts of soldiers and family members and their loved ones, and we also thank all Hungarians for showing and presenting an exemplary social cooperation for the Hungarian defence issue and for the future generation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-12-254	Thank you very much. Our final statement after today's agenda, István Nagy, Member of the Council, has applied for his speech:, The 75th anniversary of the installation from Hajdúböszörmény to Újrónafő. Here you go.
u2015-10-12-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The economic crisis in the early 1930s and unemployment drew attention to solving social issues. To work, land, and life opportunities, poor Hungarian families need to be brought to life. The possibility of the expansion of the village population has been stalled, surrounded by the great estates. There were no factories in the country. Not everyone in their own village could go to be a day laborer or a partisan harvester. After many debates, the idea was born: poor families should be set up where they can find work, and there is room for land leases or land acquisition, and payment of installments. The aim of the installation was to provide poor families with better living conditions and, on the other hand, to populate sparsely populated areas. The country's rarest populated area was Moson County in the 1930s. While the national average population density was 94 people, in Moson County there were 40 people per square kilometre. It is symbolic that exactly 75 years ago, the train of the Böszörményi rolled in to ride down to Rónafőpuszta, and to occupy their homes, to take possession of the new country. I am even more moved by the fact that my predecessors from 75 years ago, Dr. Elek Vass, the head of department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Dr. István Hajdu, were actively involved in the resettlement; and that Dr. Ferenc Koszta, representing the Ministry, was also present in the reception committee of the station in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The settlers arrived by special train with the understanding support of the railway directorship. They've been brought by thriving cars since Monday, far from Great Plains. "The Mosonvár County of Mosonvár, which is the age of Mosonvár County," wrote, "was possessed by the title of Rónáfőt" on the front page. Andor S Ruff, the editor-in-chief of the paper, who himself was on the welcoming committee, continues: "The tears of farewell were still in the eyes of the arrivals, since they were torn from the nuggets of their ancestors, but they were already glistening in their eyes, and the trust and hope of new life laughed at their lips. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Hungary's misrepresentation caused many problems, and it is not surprising that the government at the time tried to make some improvements to this situation. It was one of the possible solutions to the resolution of the contradictions when, in 1936, the majority of Parliament, Ignác Dányi, adopted the law on plantings and other land-ownership policy measures in the presentation of the Minister for Land Management, Dányi. In order to achieve the objective of the law, a planting fund was set up to be managed by the Minister for Agriculture. From the installation fund, the State will cover the costs of acquiring real estate, from which it will provide construction loans to owners, covering technical and administrative work and various investment costs. In the framework of this programme, Rónafőre Böszörményi ended up. Why from there? Károly Csizmadia is a Reformed pastor of this, who, according to his story, I traveled to Budapest to the Ministry of Land Arts, and at the installation department I told Councilman Dr. Elek Vass that Rónafő has a property for sale, near the western border. It would be suitable for installation. Hungarian families could be installed on the estate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. During his work, Károly Csizmadia contacted Péter Kovács, born in Hajdúböszörmény, who was the national secretary of the Christian Youth Association, who was also a recognised foreign representative. Kovács and Csizmadia joined forces to do a great job. Because of the origin of the KIE secretary in Böszörmény, they chose the city of Hajdúság, and the organizing work quickly started. [[18.20]] On April 3rd, 1940, the Council of Law Jenő Szalay issued the following telephone decree: they want to relocate 50-60 family people from Hajdúböszörmény to Rónafő, the interested people are to be called to the town hall by 8:00 a.m. on the 6th of the river. On 5 April, the counsel will travel to Hajdúböszörmény to inform those interested about the possibilities the next day. The notice also stated how much it would cost. From contemporary documents and feedback, it is clear that most of the applicants of the Hajdúböszörmény colony had houses, plowers, horses, cows. In April, Rónafő arrived from Böszörmény, a so-called "ground tasting committee," and its members concluded that it was suitable for populationizing the proposed area. A total of 72 residents of Böszörmény have asked to relocate here. The relocation of the first colony group was far from a one-off occasion, since after October 1940, families from Rónahfő moved even more times to Rónahfő in Hajdúböszörmény. Finally, let's turn it over again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Moson County, his age. Ruff Andor's already mentioned article radiates love for residents. The title of the event is raised by the presence of the already mentioned representatives of the welcoming committee at the railway station by the Reformed pastor Károly Csizmadia, brave Dr. Jenő Sátory, member of the management of the Reformed Women's Federation, brave Gyula Bíró academic teacher, Mrs.Alfréd Krolopp, President of the Women's Federation, and Archduke István Prosonits. The paper thus concludes its writing: "The number of settlement settlements of our county increased to four with the settlements of the village of Rónafő, Jessemajor - Pentecost - Kishnilas as valor settlements, Újudvar and now Rónafő. The seeds of each new beautiful and prosperous Hungarian village are here, in the narrowly populated outskirts, where the blessed land can still support many families and employ a lot of busy hands. All new promises, new power and new resources for the future. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. God's great grace is that he lived 75 years in this settlement. May God keep him in the future. Have one of the pillars and bulwarks here, for the Hungarians living on the western end! Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-12-256	We listened to the Member with great interest and even more patience, and we consider him to have responded on behalf of the Government as Secretary of State, so we stayed within the time frame. [[Dr. István Nagy: Thank you.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session will take place on 19 October 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. Good evening, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 6:22 p.m.]] Földi László s. k. Mirkóczki Ádám s.k.notaryMóring József Attila s.k. Schmuck Erzsébet s.k. notaryPublished by: Dr. Tibor Bárány Deputy Director General of the National Assembly
