u2015-11-17-0	Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Before we begin our work, I will ask the staff of the Office-proof Service to remove items that are inappropriate in the Chamber. [[They're picking up the bowls. Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech. What is the real social policy of the Orbán government? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-11-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fragmentation of societies and the growth of poverty, like migration and climate change, has now become a global issue. These processes are obviously linked to each other, the supranational power of multinational companies, the constant need to increase profits, the global model of today's world economy, and the increasing concentration of income and wealth in the hands of fewer and fewer. Meanwhile, crowds are poor. The Orbán government's economic and social policies are also part of this process, which strengthens this trend. Last week I spoke about the economic policy aspects of this, the government competing in global competition with vulnerable labour and low wages, while devaluing the knowledge that can create real value, keeping local small businesses inanimate, and supporting the assembly industry instead of high added value sectors. The low-income tax system and anti-poor social policy even strengthen the negative processes. With a one-key tax for the upper layers, the government took 134 billion forints out of the pocket of the lower seven income tenths, leaving 501 billion at the top 10 percent. The burden on the work of low-income earners has increased dramatically, the minimum wage tax has increased to 16 per cent, but withdrawals have increased to two or three times the minimum wage. A similar principle has been applied in the case of family support, where income-related work-based subsidies, such as family tax incentives, children's benefits, or family home-building benefits, have been put in place for higher income earners. On the other hand, no benefits reaching poor families, such as family allowances, children's or regular child protection benefits, have been increased for eight years next year. The social housing sector, which is also accessible to low income earners, is virtually unknown. The government's social policy is also making a strong contribution to increasing social inequalities, the anti-poor aid system, the systematic reduction of the social network and the reduction of welfare expenditure. While the economic crisis has led other countries to put in place measures to protect those affected by the crisis from further slipping, the government has done the opposite: it has further burdened the already poorly living middle and lower layers, and it has strengthened the top layers and its own clientele. The result is one and a half million people living below the poverty line and four million living below the minimum. Although the government has recently preferred to refer to poverty figures, they are shown in black by the data of the HCSO that the proportion of people living in poverty or social exclusion has increased roughly after 2009. Nearly 350,000 people have gone down into poverty. The situation improved slightly in 2013, but this was due only to measures taken before the 2014 election year, such as the reduction of the rent or the running-up of public works with the winter public works programmes. There has been no change in the basic directions. From the outset, the LMP has been based on social justice. It is in everyone's interest to reduce the differences, including those who are now beneficiaries of government policy. We believe that to this extent society has been divided into a handful of rich and millions of poor people, and that conscious government measures have played a role. From this point of view, it can be changed if there is political will. This requires breaking with tax policy to increase inequalities, low wage policies, freeze public sector wages, family policy to ignore the poor and anti-poor social policy. A liveable Hungary must be created for everyone. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-17-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-17-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that Hungarian voters can always listen with suspicion to the LMP when talking about tax changes, since today in Hungary a family with a three-year average income pays only one forint tax, does not pay one forint contribution, and LMP offers them a change compared to this. What this could mean as an increase in the tax burden on families. Or if an entrepreneur looks at it, a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise, whose annual turnover is below HUF 500 million, because it is a small and medium-sized entrepreneur or micro-entrepreneur, and he hears that LMP wants to change the tax conditions of companies, he immediately picks up his head, because the tax that he now pays as a 10% corporate tax was 19 percent earlier, and he is afraid of what the LMP would like to do. And if you read into the LMP's election program, which calculates the highest tax rates of around 40-50 percent, you can see exactly what the LMP wants to do: people who work, people who have jobs, people who live on wages and earnings, they want to impose even more burdens on them. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: To the rich!]] And we don't know exactly what you're going to use that money for. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] As you have acknowledged that the number of people exposed to social exclusion or poverty has decreased in the last two to three years, you have said that a positive process has started in the last two to three years. The negative started not in 2009, but in 2006 and 2008, Congresswoman, since the start of the Hungarian crisis and the start of the global economic crisis, but then in 2013 when the Hungarian reforms started to work, and the budget also had its impression, the number of people who cannot buy meat every two days, who cannot go on holiday or who have a problem with paying their bills is actually falling. And what exactly could be a more supportive measure for those living in the most difficult situation than the reduction of the rent, which has been attacked here in Parliament from countless directions by opposition parties? That was exactly what helped many to find a way to settle their ranks financially. What is the social policy of Fidesz-KDNP, honourable Member? A middle class of two thirds, at least two thirds of the country, where people with security and qualifications are living, for whom having children is not a commitment to poverty, who have acquired the knowledge that means living for them and their families in the long term. That is what we have put our actions under control, and that is why we have brought in a tax policy to help people who want to work. That is why we opened up public employment as a kind of hallway in the world of employment for all those who had never worked or forgotten for five years, 10 years or 15 years, and their children never saw what it was like to go to work at 8:00 a.m. [[9.10]] Give me one measure out of the last 25 years where a government has reduced labour taxes to this extent and has increased employment to this extent when so much more people go to work at 8:00 a.m. than before. You will not find such a period, Congresswoman, and this has created a higher budget coverage. We have often said that there are three things that are important to us: work, home and family, under which we intend to assign the entire government programme. This is why we have launched a home-building discount for families, which offers more opportunities than almost any time in the last ten years. That is why we started the family-type tax relief, and that is why we have created much more jobs, now more than half a million jobs in five years. This is also reflected in real applications, honourable Member. If you listen to me, you'll hear that real earnings have increased by 10.8 percent over the last five years. This is twice the growth of the total national product. So it's not anti-poor, it's anti-poverty policy that the Fidesz-KDNP is pursuing. It is clear from this that we do not want to attract anyone or to keep at home the capital that could invest at home, but to keep energy prices low, and that is what LMP here, either with a loudspeaker or in any other way, wanted to prevent in Parliament from keeping Hungary's energy prices permanently low in Hungary through the expansion of Paks and thereby gaining an economic competitive advantage for Hungary. If you really thought that Hungary should have a competitive advantage over low-priced energy, you would not object to the expansion of Paks. If you look at it, and if you look at not only those who don't have children, who have an average wage increase of 10.8 percent over the last five years, but let's say we're looking at the two children, they're looking at 16 percent, or in the case of three or more children, 37 percent is what they make more. But they were even better off on minimum wage because their earnings increased by 43 percent in five years. So I think this government has done more than its predecessors to determine Hungary's backbone by a strong middle class, both financially and morally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group also asked for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-17-5	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, In the last week, any government argument that would justify the massive sale of public arable land has been resolved. The argument that this is the only way to save the state ploughing ground from foreigners has been settled, and how great it is to be a goldfisher farmer. The reason I say the second with a special emphasis is because the current farmers, who, according to the land law adopted a year or two ago, can buy land with this degree, and this degree, as it turns out, the 400-hour course can be completed in a few days, which is rather ridiculous. In fact, I think that not only is it nonsense, but a mockery of the profession, if people who, by the way, had no previous experience or qualifications, are now entitled to buy up to 300 hectares of land each. We've already indicated that we can protect the land from foreigners - state land if we don't sell it. Twenty years from now, at the latest, when the moratorium on sales expires on current customers, it may fall into the hands of foreigners, even if there is an inheritance, much sooner. In fact, last week it turned out that there are 222 farmers who currently comply with the rules of the land law and are not Hungarian citizens, so in Hungarian: 70 thousand hectares can fall into the hands of foreign citizens with significantly better financial conditions at any time. Auctions also started yesterday, where it is clear that the volume of planned sales will be significantly lower. It cannot be said that there was no interest, but that interest was basically in smaller areas. It is always used as an argument by Minister to see what a mass application there is. I would like to stress that we have no problem with the privateisation of areas of 1-2-3 or even 5 hectares; right, up to 3 hectares in the tendering system, say, 5 hectares or 5-6 hectares in the bidding area. These are the lands that are not economically used for anything else. So it is indeed so that this should be an additional area in the hands of those who are currently land users. This can also be seen from the fact that such an area triggered the greatest interest, in a 4.1 hectares, 30 hectares undivided joint-owned piece of land in Győr, there was a substantial bid, from 6 million to 11, but whether this could be due to a previous dispute or what, I don't know, because I don't think that 3 million forints of land in that area is worth 19 crowned land. The other was that he was a buyer on a 6-7-8 ha board, and when one of them was asked by the journalist how old he would be when he could take possession of it - all of which were charged with a 50-year lease under the first Fidesz government in 2001 - he said that he would be 101 years old. Journalists asked him what he was going to do with this land when he was 101, and he said he thought he had information that he could use it much sooner. I consider it very irresponsible, Minister, if you try to make farmers believe that leases between European standards... - not in terms of content, because they can obviously be corrected in courts, without a bilateral agreement, can be unilaterally, but with the involvement of a court. But to take the lease itself with government tools, I think, and to promise that, is a huge irresponsible thing, and there is no other argument for those who buy land with 126 years' payback than to make sure that this land gets used as soon as possible. Minister, a significant proportion of this state ploughing area would not be profitable to the current tenants. He could make a profit if the farmers used it. You keep saying that's how it's gonna be. Based on what? I hope you'll answer me if they're actually planning on doing this. What we see is that they want to raise rent, there was a government man here who said 100,000 forints. I would warn you to leave 100,000 HUF rent increases, because it will destroy Hungarian agriculture, and not Lajos Simicska, I would like to signal Hungarian agriculture. The other question is that there are rents that, if the land remains in government control, obviously have to and can be arranged, but that is not the way they want to fire a targeted shotgun. This is going to be a huge mistake and a huge illegal move, and I very much hope that we will not succeed today. Secondly, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this type of land sales clearly removes the last active instrument from rural development. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Takes away all the opportunities a state could have if it wanted to. Don't do this, Minister. It's still not too late. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-17-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Sándor Fazekas wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-17-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We are pleased that you raised this issue, which was already taking place here yesterday in the Parliament. What exactly is the address of the agenda, Congressman? The robbery's on its way, isn't it? [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes.]] Interesting, he didn't have the guts to tell me this address, or I just didn't hear it. So whether or not it is what is going on here, Honourable Parliament, because I think that is the most important thing that has given me a Member's label, but he has not dared to say it, it is a brave act. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I'm not that coward.]] He did bravely, here is the testimony that he did not dare to tell me, because I said this yesterday, too, that the person who talks about land robbery, and that has its significance in this House, Honourable Parliament, is claiming what the Btk is saying. and that anyone who takes alien things away from someone else in order to steal them illegally by using violence against someone or a direct threat to life or physical integrity... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Yeah, you've heard of it, but you're talking about kidnapping. So it would be good to have the mother of the knowledge principle in force. 'Cause if anyone says there's a land robbery here, all they're saying is that farmers who buy land at bidding or pre-emptive rights from the state, they're robbers. [[An uproar and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik.]] The name of the Hungarian farmers as robbers is a modern-day mission, which is what we can now witness. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] With all kinds of objections, Hungarian farmers should not buy land; they should be criticized for not caring; when they buy, the problem is why they buy it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They don't buy, they're smarter than that.]] If the congressman says they're not buying, then what's the problem? [[9.20]] If you're saying the farmers don't buy the land, then what's the problem? One minute the problem is selling the land, the next thing you know, the problem is we can't sell the land. I think it's early to take stock of the first day's auctions. Even in a football game, the first minute is hardly the right time to predict the end of the fight. However, there is interest, for more than 50 percent of the land is sold. We are talking about 40,000 parcels, and that means that if this trend goes on, 20,000 farmers will have land ownership. This is an extremely important thing, which also shows whether or not this area is a rural development instrument, because I hardly believe that in Hungarian rural development there would be a great potential for small parcels with one to two to five hectares. Just as it would be good for ten, twenty and thirty years of land with a lease right, if you, as a major rural developer, whose work is marked by closed sugar factories, 10 thousand hectares of land wiped out, are linked to your name, to tell you what rural development opportunities you see in these permanent leases that expire in 30 years' time. I think that would be helpful. Dear Parliament, There is interest in lands. Today's data is that in the county of Nógrád, there have been 28 state-owned bidders, 43, and the 6500 land below 3 hectares has already received about a thousand offers; otherwise, the deadline is 1 December. So there is interest, and farmers are taking advantage of the opportunities provided by the government and Parliament in the legislation. Dear House, My point is that farmers are entitled to buy land. What effect does it have on leases? I'd like to tell you that most people are interested in people who are renters right now. They'll be able to use the land where they're not the tenants. And when land use contracts are over, they can enter. But I say we leave it to the farmers. I do not wish to comment on any of the comments made by a farmer about the future, nor do I wish to reflect on who is planning to do so, who is taking part in an auction or who is not dealing with it. We'll see when a few months, let's say, the results of two months are available to see what the actual situation is. I'm convinced it's the right decision. Yes, we have to create an opportunity. The real rural development is that Hungarian farmers can use these small parcels, undivided common property, and produce. After all, rural development is not a thing for itself. You, Member, wanted to eliminate the Hungarian countryside, at your time there was a State Secretary who said that the Hungarian village was a medieval remnant, that is not necessary. I think it's best if someone in this House doesn't talk about rural development, it's you. But one thing is certain: without Hungarian farmers, Hungarian rural development is unimaginable, it needs to be produced, it needs to provide a living in the countryside, and for this, the land is needed. This goal is fully fulfilled by the programme for the farmers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-8	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-17-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, They've been on the wheel for almost 300 weeks, yet they can't clean up. I know, Mr. Secretary, that you will probably mention in your reply that in recent years 3,000 new police officers have been initiated - but in recent times there have been more oaths of State Secretary than a police oath; so much for internal proportions - you will tell us how many times and how the Criminal Code has been tightened up, how Jobbik voted or did not vote for them, but you will never add that you have always smuggled in proposals that were less compatible with our programme and values and with the interests of the nation, so our answer was envelopable and then you can refer to it. But I also believe that there are statistics, Mr. Secretary of State, which contradict your statements, your statements, in fact. Allow me to mention a recent crime statistics and criminal surveys in a small settlement in Heves County in front of the entire public, which is based on the real questioning of people. From this, Mr. Secretary of State, it turns out that at that small settlement in Heves County - it is about Átány, by the way, to say specifics - 16 percent said that he or someone in his household was a victim of a crime. Every second person's bike or small motorcycle was stolen, one of the third people's livestock was stolen at least once, one in four had been broken into, and some greater value was taken from his house, 20 percent were threatened or blackmailed earlier, and 15 percent had become victims of various con artists. After that, to say that there is order in the north or the east, it is rather exaggeration and deception of voters, to deceive voters. But to talk not only about crimes against or less or less serious, let us have two specific recent very sad and tragic cases, two double murders, honourable Secretary of State. One happened in Pusztaszentistván near Mende. Two decent old men over 70 were murdered, and the aunt was stabbed in the heart, and the uncle was tortured until he told us where their savings, hidden in the house, were found by the perpetrators. They were supposed to be victims of the renovation of their little house, starting the renovation of the small house with a life's work. This may have aroused the interest of the perpetrator or of the perpetrators, thinking that there might be a considerable amount of money at home for someone who can start a house renovation today in Hungary. Then there is the other case, the double murder in Érd, where the victims are also over the age of seventy, unable to defend themselves because of their health, age, or less. They were beekeepers. It must have turned out that recently they gave Transylvanian schools ten laptops and five projectors as gifts. The perpetrators, the criminals, thought that there was plenty of money here too, worth breaking into and brutally murdering these unfortunate old people. And, you know, Secretary of State, not only do we have strong critical remarks about anti-life acts, but we also need to see that low-cost drugs among young people are destroying and are being affected by cheap drugs or being victims of crime, such as young women or committing serious crimes to harm others. I could also mention the murder in early summer, where, to this day, only one of the perpetrators is in custody, and the others are on the loose waiting for a chance of getting away with criminal prosecution. And, you know, Mr. Secretary of State, I myself have been very deeply involved in exploring the circumstances of usury crimes and the distribution of cheap drugs, and I have always seen - but your fellow politicians and their representatives, in private discussions, acknowledge these problems with intense noddings - that if in a small town of 10-15 thousand people visit certain places of entertainment a few times, they can map out where, what material they sell, to whom, by what method they sell. Everyone knows that on the spot, but they're avoiding the police. Three assumptions are possible, Mr. Secretary of State, in this regard. One is total professional incompetence, and the other is that the police misinterpret vamper policy and provide petty criminals with quasi-discovery status for petty information, so they can get away with everything, and the third is that corruption can occur in many cases and butter cops who, if necessary, turn a blind eye to a series of crimes. So there is no order in this country from public confidence, crimes that violate public peace to crimes against life, to drug distribution, to usury crimes, Mr. Secretary of State. If we get the right public confidence, we will not improve statistics, we will improve public security. We have already proven this by submitting more proposals between 2010-12 than between 2006 and 2010 by combining then governing parties and opposition. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-17-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Honourable Member, I am sorry that you have roughly attacked the police in Parliament today, the Hungarian police that perform beyond the power to protect the southern border, protects the country, protects the Hungarian people, protects the Hungarian people, and then thanks to this, you are talking about the corrupted police and police. Honourable Member, I reject this. By the way, this attitude, this post before the agenda, proves Jobbik's inadequacy either to conduct the country's affairs or to judge the issue of order correctly. [[9.30]] Honourable Congressman, In 2010, we promised to tidy up the country. [[György Szilágyi: In two weeks.]] We'll restore public safety, ensure people's safety, peace of mind. In order to do this, we have said that we are making strict laws. We've passed a new law on criminal offences, the three strikes, the strict punishment for the crimes you've brought up: the double murder in Ordnance or the other homicide. Honourable Congressman, We also said that the only way to achieve this was to strengthen the police force in its number. That's what we did. That's what you're mocking about, saying it all the time. We're telling you because they're asking because we couldn't have achieved this result without it, Congressman. Indeed, 3,500 people have been confirmed by the police, and strict laws have been passed. We are sorry, by the way, and I always say that most of these strict laws have not been voted by you, and you have not supported these laws. You are calling for order in Parliament, but you are on the side of the mess, honourable Member. In addition, in addition to strict laws, we have also provided technical conditions to strengthen the number of employees. For example, at the end of 2012, we gave over 1750 new vehicles and last year, on 23 December 2014 we gave over 1350 vehicles, including 237 of the vehicles ordered to protect the external borders, Member. [[There's a lot of noise in the Jobbik faction.]] Let me just say the 2015 results. Mr. President. Allow Mr President Novak to listen to my answer, or the Jobbik faction, if you have already spoken to me, to give the proper respect for hearing the answer. [[Intercoms from the Jobbik faction.]] Thank you very much, I will continue to answer. So I would like to tell you what results have been achieved over the past year. The number of registered offences decreased by 13.2 percent in the first half of 2015, from 148 922 in absolute numbers to 129 312 in comparison to the same period in the previous year; if you look at the first half of 2011, it decreased by more than 35 percent. The number of crimes committed in the public area decreased by 16.4 percent, from 31 790 to 26 569, and by the first half of 2011, the number of crimes committed in the public area decreased by nearly 50 percent. Honourable Congressman, We have never promised that there will be no crime in Hungary. We would like to achieve this, by the way, because I think that there is no better or greater purpose to be set, but we have not promised that there will be no crime committed. With the victims of every crime, their families, we are in solidarity, we offer our condolences, but obviously our goal is to prevent crime. The police are also working with the vigilantes, and on 7 March this year, the National Crime Prevention Council launched the burglary prevention programme in order to prevent crime. This currently covers the county of Baranya, Somogy, Pest, Borsod, Szabolcs-Szatmár and Budapest. The results will be evaluated and, if there are good results, we will extend this programme to the whole country. Once again, I will continue my comment where I began, that the police have achieved these results in order to protect the southern border. So it wasn't just any situation that the police were in. I would also like to thank the staff of the Hungarian police for the service they are doing to protect the southern border and for the safety of life and property of the Hungarian people. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Our aim is to further strengthen the police, to continue to adopt legislation in Parliament that serves the safety of Hungarian people. I ask you, Member, if you consider this important, to support these laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member L. Simon László, Fidesz Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. 140 years ago, the dominant figure of Hungarian cultural policy, Count Klebelsberg Kunó, was born. You have the floor, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-17-13	Thank you very much. Let us not forget that the sacred area we call our country lies in Central Europe, downtown Europe, and if we Hungarians only wanted to live in the house of a less educated state with a hooded roof, then the house in this downtown of Europe would become too expensive for such a house very early. They would tear down our poor house with a hood, and other fortunate nations would build a modern palace here. It's actually a matter of being or not being. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, These thoughts were written just 140 years ago by Count Klebelsberg Kunó in the 1920s. We in Székesfehérvár and Fejér County are all proud that although Count Klebelsberg Kunó was born in Arad County on 13 November 1875, he was bound with a thousand threads to Fejér County. He continued his high school studies at the Cistercian high school in Székesfehérvár, and his work resulted in a number of values both in Székesfehérvár and throughout the county. As a token of this respect, on the approximately 140th anniversary of his birth, last Friday, we presented the bust of Zoltán Tessely in the presence of my fellow Member, which was handed over to a large number of audience by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Two days later, the Roman Catholic parish of Szafarszabolcs blessed the windows of the brand new, beautiful stained glass, Antal Spányi, bishop. A large number of audiences from far away from Szabadszabolcs were very pleased with the wonderful glass glass window ensemble that we owe to artists Gábor Szép and László Domokos. On one of these stained glass windows is the portrait of the great-great cultural political personality of the county, the representation of Kunó Klebelsberg. But we are also attached to this great man, whose cult we must build, and whom we must speak about regularly here in the House, because his 40-year socialist-communist dictatorship wanted to erase his personality and memory from the Hungarian cultural history. Among other things, he developed a national programme for the institutional system of education. He reformed teaching, brought new schools to life in higher education, established thousands of folk schools to eliminate illiteracy, established rural universities. Among other things, it has the prominent development of Hungarian higher education. His political career was enormous. Dezső Bánffy started as an official at the time at the invitation of Prime Minister Dezső Bánffy in 1898, but was soon given a political mandate. In 1914, István Tisza became Minister of State for Administrative Affairs of the Ministry of Religion and Public Education in the Cabinet of Prime Minister István Tisza. Later, after 1916, when he became a Member of Parliament, he was assigned to the Bethlen government. In 21 he became Minister of Interior and became Minister of Religion and Public Education from 22 onwards. In the short decade thereafter, Hungary was reorganized culturally after the Trianon trauma. He has developed a program for the development of our country's folk school network. The law adopted in 1926 provided for a new type of elementary schools, the creation of a folk school of interest. In three years, he built 5,000 classrooms in Farmland and Kisfalus in Hungary. In 1922 he established the Hungarian National Collection University, which defined the future of the Hungarian system of public culture and public collection for many decades to date. In 1923 he brought to life the literary magazine Sunrise, whose editor-in-chief became Tormay Cécile. In Pécs, Szeged and Debrecen he started university construction projects, established clinics, founded research institutes. The establishment of its cultural facilities began in the 1920s, and by 28 it had established 1500 folk libraries, in 1929 it opened the Collegium Hungaricum in Rome, and in Hungary it built 17 agricultural folk schools and many elementary folk schools. In 1930 he inaugurated the National Sports Hotel, which he initiated and built on Margaret Island. [[9.40]] This huge oeuvre could be supplemented with a lot of elements. I think we are talking about an predecessor of a politician who we should be proud of, whose 140th birthday we should also say that, following his example, we should also shape Hungary's cultural identity in today's difficult situation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-14	Thank you, Congressman, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to congratulate the chapel owners once again on the establishment of this statue and for celebrating the 140-year anniversary as worthy not only in Fejér County but also throughout the country. We ourselves, when we come into this Chamber as MPs, as Secretary of State, may be a worthy indication of the weight of the place or the weight and responsibility of our task, that in this Chamber, in these benches, earlier, Klebelsberg Kunó and other politicians of the same caliber, who defined the entire XX. The Hungarian cultural policy of the century. Some of their achievements did not even appear when Klebelsberg, let's say, was a cult minister for nearly ten years, because the sports success series in Hungary in the 1950s was due to the fact that Klebelsberg made school physical education compulsory, not every day, but only on a mandatory basis at least once a week. But what started in the Hungarian sports development, or when the Institute of Physical Education was established during his cult ministership, they arrived decades later, let's say, in the 1950s, but here I could also give an example of the National Sports Hotel in Margitsziget, which is also related to his name. I would like to quote a brief thought from him: "Cult is not a treasure that can be kept by mere guarding. The nation must also continue to work to maintain its level of culture. This also indicates Klebelsberg's commitment to maintain what he previously referred to as a cultural or cultural superiority in other writings in Hungary. We wrote in the Hungarian Fundamental Law four years ago that Christianity was a nation-sustaining force in Hungary, but besides that, Kunó Klebelsberg testified that in the history of Central Europe, which was very confusing and has many turns, which the Hungarians lived, survived and grew, it was his culture, his higher culture, that made him the winner, and instead of the house with the rupees that the congressman quoted from Kuno Klebelsberg, not others settled here in the Carpathian Basin. He said that this national superiority, cultural superiority, after the collapse in Trianon, might be even more important to maintain than before. In Klebelsberg's cultural policy, we see a very welcome duality, a kind of parallel cultural policy, before and after which different systems, various ministers, and prime ministers were able to implement only one part or another. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The congressman also mentioned his program of building a classroom in the farmhouse and village, in which he established five thousand village classrooms in three years. He said that this is the broad foundation, the culture of the nation, on which to build Hungary's future. However, he has developed basic education, basic education and basic culture to this extent (Noise. - The president's ringing. - Thank you very much - he also took note of developing elite culture, as Debrecen, Pécs, Szeged was also trying to strengthen elite culture by establishing universities, establishing Collegium Hungaricum, launching research programmes. He said that the Hungarian national elite must think in European dimensions and think at European level. Neither before nor after, there was a system that could have achieved both in such a scale, reducing differences to this extent. We want to take a similar path ourselves, just like in the system of public education, when we try to create the opportunity for schools in difficulty to catch up with the average school level and to grow beyond it, with the support of universities in particular. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We also try to provide assistance in higher education, as well as in doctoral training. In this session, too, before Parliament, there was a proposal aimed at this. So this is the special thing Klebelsberg has done, and what has remained for decades is that he has been able to increase the culture and culture of the broad population at the same time. He said that, of course, this means not only education but also moral and spiritual value, which shows that it was not only a transfer of knowledge, but also a transfer of education and ethics. It's also important for him to be quoted - one last thought, if it'll fit into my time [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - that the nation should not only be told the truths sought by foreign peoples, because the world of science and culture cannot be the traveling agents of Hungarians, as he said. We Hungarians must cultivate, research, preserve and expand the culture and science that we Hungarians created here in the Carpathian Basin. I think we are worthy of the memory of Kunó Klebelsberg, our cultural politician born 140 years ago, if we wish to expand this Hungarian culture, this Hungarian science here with local values. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. In accordance with our agreed agenda, we will continue our work from 9 a.m. to 50 a.m. with decisions. I'm gonna take a break for nine hours and 50 minutes. [[Break: 9.45 9.56President: István Jakabjegyzők: Attila Gelencsér and Loránt Hegedűs]]
u2015-11-17-17	[[During the break, Szabó Timea again placed a white plastic bowl in front of Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Viktor Orbán and János Lázár.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, H/6947 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2012 The final vote on the proposal for a decision will follow. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6947 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 129 votes in favour, 66 against and without abstentions. H/6948 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and accounts for the year 2013. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6948 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 127 votes in favour, 69 against and without abstention. H/6949 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2014. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6949 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 129 votes to 67, without abstention. It follows the T/6963 Convention between Hungary and the Kingdom of Belgium on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6963 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 196 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that the T/7332 on the judicial procedure to be initiated by the Council of the European Union in the context of the decision on the allocation of applicants for international protection by compulsory quotas will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7332/5. T/7332/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed by Parliament with a derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7332/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, 36 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7332. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 154 votes in favour, 41 against and 1 abstention. [[10.00]] Following the 2014 XC on International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Law 17 and Act CXLIII of 2015 on Public Procurement T/6985. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 7, 8 and 9 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 7 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 133 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 9. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 133 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 133 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6985 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes to five, with 31 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. T/6989. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6989/22. T/6989/23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 16, Jobbik Group No 7, 8 and 10. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 16 is proposed by Mr Benedek. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 128 against and 32 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 129 against and nine abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 129 against and 8 abstentions. Amendment No 10 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 130 against and 8 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 and 2, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6989/22. The majority of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 181 votes in favour, 15 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6989/22. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 181 votes to 14, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/6989/25. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6989/25. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 181 votes to 13, with two abstentions. [[10.10]] We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6989/25. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 181 votes to 13, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/6981. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6981/8. T/6981/9 and T/6981/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 126 against and 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 3, paragraphs 4 and 5 of the summary amendment, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 3 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up Article 3 of the bill. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 3 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote. Result appearing on the board: 129 yes, 43 no, 24 stays.]] Parliament's amendment to the amendment point 126... [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks:]] - He did not accept it by 129 votes to 43, with 24 abstentions. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] In the context of points 4 and 5 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee adopted a new legislative proposal (4) and (5). The Commission proposes to add a new section to this section. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 4 and 5 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the proposed amendments by 2 votes in favour, 168 against and 25 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6981/8. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 44 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article P (2) of the Fundamental Law, Article 3 of the bill provides: The adoption of Article 2 of the Act requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6981 accepts it. the provision of amended legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the provision of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 129 votes in favour, 43 against and 24 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6981 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 128 votes in favour, 43 against and 24 abstentions. The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. T/6980 amending Act T/6980 and other procedural and judicial laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6980/5. T/6980/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6980/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 29 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6980/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 157 votes in favour, 29 against and 2 abstentions. Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. T/6978. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6978/6. Number T/6978/7 and its summary report T/6978/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 153 against and 8 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6978/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes to five, with 29 abstentions. [[10.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6978/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 28 against and 6 abstentions. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. Act CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments. T/6984. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6984 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 125 votes in favour, 34 against and 29 abstentions. T/6955 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the protection of the game, game management and hunting. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6955/29. T/6955/30. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 16, 18 and 21, the MSZP Group Nos 7 and 8 and Jobbik Group Nos 4, 5 and 6. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 16 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 124 against and 29 abstentions. Amendment 18 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 147 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 21 is proposed by Mr Benedek. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 8. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 123 against and 28 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Amendment 8 is proposed by Zsolt Legény and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 124 against and 25 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Mr Zsolt Legény and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 121 against and 26 abstentions. Amendment No 4 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 122 against and 34 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 128 against and 34 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 123 against and nine abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6955/29. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 173 votes to 7, with 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6955/33. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 147 votes to eight, with 32 abstentions. Next up is the T/6623 on facial analysis and facial analysis system. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6623/10. and the summary report by T/6623/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to Article 4 (4) of the MSZP Group, amendments 4 and 5 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 122 against and 27 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6623/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 39 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6623/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes in favour, 39 against and 24 abstentions. It follows that T/6634 on the amendment of certain law enforcement laws to fulfil the obligations of the European Union and for other purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6634/6. and the summary report by T/6634/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6634/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted a summary amendment by 129 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour. In fact, he accepted it with 29 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6634/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 153 votes in favour, 29 against and 5 abstentions. Following up on the T/6410 on amendments to the law on administrative bureaucracy reduction Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6410/23. T/6410/24. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of Section 4, the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 13, 14 and 17, MSZP Group Nos 3, 4 and 8, Jobbik Group Nos 5, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 13 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 118 against and 28 abstentions. Amendment 14 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and 51 abstentions. Amendment 17 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 5. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by György Lukács and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 123 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 124 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 123 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 123 against and 33 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6410/23. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to 30, with 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6410/28. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes to two, with 37 abstentions. The 2003 XCII on the system of taxation follows a series of steps. T/6636 on the amendment of Act T/6636 and certain tax laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6636/19. T/6636/20. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Article 4 (4) of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 4, 6 and 10 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 123 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 122 against and 38 abstentions. Amendment 10 is proposed by György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 122 against and 34 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6636/19. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 2, with 61 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6636/22. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 votes to three, with 58 abstentions. It follows from the introduction of international financial reporting standards for specific reporting purposes in Hungary and from T/6638 on the amendment of certain laws on financial matters. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6638/7. and its summary report is T/6638/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6638/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, not by vote, with 34 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6638/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 158 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 28 abstentions. [[10.40]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/6724 by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP and its fellow Members on the national minimum programme. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution 63 yes, 118 votes against, without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of subjects by József Tóbias, MSZP and its fellow Members, LXXXI of 1997 on social security pensions in order to ensure the safety of life in old age. T/6507. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 63 yes, 122 no votes and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by the representatives of Mr Bernadett Szél and Mr András Schiffer LMP on the exclusion of offshore businesses from the use of public funds, as well as on the removal of the public administration from the offshore. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 63 yes, 120 votes and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to continue our work. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. initiate a general debate on the amendment of laws and certain related laws. The submission submitted by Gyula Vantara, Fidesz and its fellow Members T/7309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that during the general debate, the opening speech will take place, the speech by the representatives of the government, the speeches by the lead speaker and the speech by the first independent Member. Further speeches by its representatives will be possible in order to continue the debate. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Vice-President Gergely Gulyás, the rapporteur on the agenda. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2015-11-17-18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before Parliament is the CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religious parties and religious communities. amendment of the law. The proposal also includes the necessary amendments to the law in connection with the change of church law, highlighting the importance of the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches. Law. First, I would like to briefly address the need for the proposal and its history, and then briefly the content elements. The amendment of the church law is absolutely necessary because the legislation currently in force has been criticised by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. In practice, the Constitutional Court dealt with the law in three decisions. In the past, it was also destroyed, and it has now established an unconstitutionality in default, so the Parliament has a legislative obligation in relation to the law. There are also proceedings pending before the European Court of Human Rights, in several cases a decision has been taken which has condemned the Hungarian State because of the current legislation on religious communities with a former status as a church. Therefore, the comprehensive review and amendment of the Church Act should not be omitted, in which the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the instructions of the Constitutional Court set out the way forward to which the authors have taken account in the preparation of the presentation. According to the Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. In this connection, the Fundamental Law sets out the principle of separation between the state and the church, which, in addition to being one of the principles of the functioning of the secularized state, can also be regarded as a guarantee of religious freedom. However, the Fundamental Law also states that the state's world-view neutrality does not mean indifference, but that the state cooperates with the churches for Community purposes. In order to meet these requirements together, the proposal is based on the following starting points. In accordance with the Basic Law, the right to exercise religion in conjunction with others should be guaranteed, regardless of whether or not joint religious practice takes place within a legally regulated organisational framework. It is necessary to establish an organisational framework for the free exercise of religion according to constitutional principles. Cooperation between the state and religious communities in the field of public activities should be organised, taking into account the principle recognised by both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights that the State has a certain discretion and right in this context compared to the religious community's activities. [[10.50]] Regulation should be able to prevent abuse. In this respect, the first law of the Church, which followed the change of regime, which was highly liberal in Europe, failed because it gave rise to a number of abuses. The current legislation has rightly set the goal of curbing abuses. However, a significant tightening of the conditions for becoming a church and a significant narrowing of the circle of those with ecclesiastical status, as well as the manner in which it was judged by the Court of Strasbourg and the Constitutional Court to be too strict, not arguing that the aim was otherwise correct, the prevention of abuse was a legitimate endeavour by the parties to government. In view of this, the revision of the church law and the correction of the contested provisions cannot be expected. For this reason, it required a lengthy reflection by the governing parties on how the comprehensive amendment of the church law can remedy possible misunderstandings and controversial issues. The result of this long preparatory work is the bill before you. During the preparation, both the Ministry of Justice and the faction initiated discussions with all the factions, on which everyone appeared for the first time, and for the second time the Hungarian Socialist Party was no longer invited, but all the opposition parties and the pro-government factions had the opportunity to present their views during the preparation of the presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the background of the proposal, I would now like to present the most important novelties of the proposal. The proposal before us considers all communities, churches or churches primarily engaged in religious activity as a religious community, regardless of its designation or organisational form. As a basic principle, it states that any community formed for the purpose of common religious practice and operating for that purpose is entitled to constitutional protection, even without a legal personality, in the framework of free religious practice, provided by the Fundamental Law to religious communities. The proposed regulation, while respecting the national constitutional and European identity, aims to ensure, within the framework of the rule of law, as widely as possible, the exercise of freedom of conscience and religion, the right to self-determination and equality of religious communities, and the neutrality of the state. According to the new system of ecclesiastical organizations in the proposal, it is a religious community even if two or three people pray together. As a possible form of organization, religious associations remain, they are governed by the rules of association, so ten people can establish them and then declare that the association intends to engage in religious activities. If a community, going back three years, has at least 400 personal income tax offers on average over the years, it can function as a registered church. If you have over 4,000 personal income tax offerings over the average of the years for five years, then you can act as a registered church. It is a fundamental change from what has been done so far, that, on the State side, not the recognition of churches, but the registration of a court becomes the basis for obtaining legal personality. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that more than 4 million people in Hungary pay personal income tax, compared to this, a ten thousand are the criteria for 400 people, and a thousand are the criteria for 4 thousand people, so we can still say that only the legislation contains a reasonable tightening compared to the 1990 amendment, and that the registered status or the registered status of church is a great relief compared to the current rules. The proposal contains guarantee rules to ensure that religious communities operating at the time of their entry into force are not put in a worse position than before, that all churches now in force are automatically placed ex lege in the highest category, in the registered church category, and, on the other hand, that the ecclesiastical status of those communities that continue to engage in religious activities is resolved in a satisfactory manner, which has been adversely affected by the provisions of the legislation which entered into force on 1 January 2012 by the Constitutional Court or the Court of Strasbourg. The State shall cooperate with religious communities with legal personality in the performance of public activities and public tasks, the framework of which shall be laid down together with them in an agreement relating to certain sub-areas. The governing parties continue to be committed to the state's efforts to cooperate and to establish a strategic partnership with religious communities, which have traditionally the greatest role in the performance of social responsibilities and which have the highest social acceptance and embedded status, based on their historical and social role. This endeavour is reflected in the elements of the proposal on the basis of which the State may conclude cooperation agreements of a comprehensive nature with the registered churches on the basis of their historical past, their social acceptance, organisation and weight, and their social responsibilities. For the sake of its importance and durability, such registered churches, which have an agreement published by the Parliament in its cardinal law, are deemed to remain unchanged under the Fundamental Law as an established church. As I have already mentioned, the State has a right of discretion under constitutional and international legal standards to support the performance of public tasks, which, however, must be exercised under objective and reasonable conditions. The proposal therefore requires that the objective and reasonable conditions of social support, weight and responsibility be taken into account in the solving of Community tasks, financial support made available to religious communities, and community cooperation between the state and religious communities, thus ensuring the coexistence of economic rationality, social weight and non-discrimination. Overall, the proposal before us is capable of settling the framework for the functioning of religious communities and the conditions for public cooperation with individual communities in a satisfactory manner, closing the constitutional and international debates that have been arising in this respect for years. Dear Parliament, In view of this amendment, the opposition may even find the truth of its previous criticisms. In view of this, I believe that if previous criticisms were principle-based criticisms and not only reflected opposition to the government, then there is no reason why Parliament can accept the amendment requiring a two-thirds majority. That is why I ask all the political groups and fellow Members sitting in Parliament to support the proposed bill, and if constructively amendments are made, then, of course, the majority of governments will be open to settling the situation and adopting a two-thirds majority of the amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-19	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to speak. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-17-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. Law and a proposal to amend certain related laws are of paramount importance both for the enforcement of the rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law and for the fulfilment of Hungary's obligations under international law, so the government considers it to be of utmost importance and supports it. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to briefly describe the relevant fundamental and international legal environment in which this proposal must be interpreted and evaluated. Article VII of the Fundamental Law According to Article 1 (1), everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the free choice or change of religion or other beliefs and the freedom to express, exercise or teach religion or other beliefs by religious acts, rituals or otherwise, either individually or jointly with others, in public or in private life. The detailed content of the rights contained in the Fundamental Law is broken down by the Church Act, the provisions of which in force have caused criticism from several directions. The European Court of Human Rights, in violation of the equality of churches, the powers of the National Assembly in the recognition of churches, and the violation of the rights inherent in the withdrawal of the previously acquired status of church and the associated privileges, condemned the regulation in its judgment of 8 April 2014 in the case of the Hungarian Christian Mennonite Church and Others v. Hungary. [[11.00]] Nervous system disorders Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon Uncommon The Constitutional Court declared the number of persons required to obtain the status of church and certain provisions of the law in force to be contrary to an international treaty, and, on the other hand, it complained about the period of preparation for the transformation of the former churches at the time of the entry into force of the law, due to its shortness and the lack of legal consequences for failure to comply with the law and the absence of the possibility of rescue. For the purposes of this In the decision of Ab, he called on the Parliament to take the necessary measures to resolve the conflict. The proposal fulfils the criteria set out in those decisions. Turning to certain specific provisions of the proposal, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the following. Article VII of the Fundamental Law Pursuant to Article 2 (2), followers of the same credit may establish a religious community in the form of an organizational community as defined by a fundamental law for the purpose of exercising their religion. In accordance with the Basic Law, the proposal provides for the freedom to establish religious communities for those concerned, while at the same time establishing an organisational framework for the free exercise of religion in accordance with constitutional principles. The amendment lays down as a principle that freedom of conscience and freedom of religion is a right for all, which cannot be linked to any legal form. The provision refers to Article VII of the Fundamental Law at the same time. In accordance with Article 1 (1), the right of individual and collective freedom of religion is at the same time a basis for the concept that any community which defines itself as a religious community is entitled to constitutional protection, even without a legal personality, which the Fundamental Law grants to religious communities in the framework of free religious practice. The proposed new structure distinguishes the category of religious communities without legal personality, religious associations, registered churches and registered churches. Under the rules, any religious community can become a religious association and thus become a legal person in the case of a number of at least 10 members. The registration as a registered church requires confirmation of social support on the basis of 1 percent of personal income tax offerings, 400 sja 1 percent offering on an average of three years and at least five years of religious association. Religious communities with high social acceptance and a minimum of 4,000 ecclesiastical sja 1 per cent a year and a long time ago legally operating religious communities can apply for registration as registered churches. In their case, the expected operating period is at least 20 or 15 years of organised international operation in Hungary or at least 100 years of age. The registered churches with which the State enters into a comprehensive cooperation agreement which is to be published by law shall be governed by Article VII of the Fundamental Law. They shall be considered as an established church within the meaning of Article 4 (4) and shall be in their legal status not different from other registered churches. The bill contains the regulation of the system of cooperation agreements as a novum in the regulation of relations between the state and religious communities. According to this, the State may conclude cooperation agreements with religious associations and registered churches in order to carry out its public tasks, on the basis of their historical past, their social acceptance, organisation and weight, and their social responsibilities, of a comprehensive nature. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The existing national agreement with the registered churches, such as the Holy See, or the conclusion of comprehensive strategic cooperation agreements in the future, will be concluded by a fundamental law on the grounds of their protection, importance and durability, as proposed. The proposed new ecclesiastical system provides broad autonomy and support for religious communities in their religious activities, acknowledges their social involvement, but reserves the State's discretion to develop details of cooperation in the implementation of public tasks on the basis of social acceptance, embeddedness, social weight and ecclesiastical traditions for objective reasons. The rules contained in the proposal for cooperation agreements adequately ensure that the principles of objectivity, objectivity and thus non-discrimination are consistent with the discretion of the State. The proposal settles the conditions and procedures for the registration of religious communities, in which it must respect the principles of objectivity and rationality and the right to a fair trial and the right to redress; the conditions governing the extent of the social acceptance of religious communities - 1 percent offerings, working time -, the principles of public participation in the financing of religious activities, and further institutional and procedural conditions ensuring the legitimate functioning of religious communities. The proposal properly settles the placement of religious communities in the new structure at the time of the entry into force of the law, taking into account that they are not more disadvantaged than currently in the new regulatory system. The additional priority of the transitional provisions is to remedy the adverse consequences of the loss of status resulting from previous legislation in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. In this context, the proposal lays down preferential rules for religious communities which have lost their former status as parishioners due to the 2011 legislation to be amended, have continued to function as religious organizations and are now listed in the register of these organisations, or which have not been transformed into religious organizations, but have turned to the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights in connection with their ecclesiastical status acquired under the 1990 Church Act or the loss thereof, or have initiated a different appeal procedure in relation to the loss of their status. Finally, I would like to point out that this is a complex amendment combining various elements, which means not only an amendment to the church law, but also changes to the law on the financing of religious communities and a number of sectoral legislation. One of these is the amendment to the Church Finance Act, which, in accordance with the principles already described, organises the framework for cooperation between the State and religious communities, participation in public tasks and its financing by the State. The laws of the sector - tax administration, accounting, administrative procedure and public service - required by the new church rules - and legislative amendments have been submitted together with the amendment of the Church Act and will enter into force on 1 January 2016. The proposal, as expressed by the national party, seeks to close open regulatory issues that have been raised before the Constitutional Court and international fora in connection with the legislation currently in force. On the other hand, the proposal provides a long-term solution to the full implementation of freedom of conscience and religion and to the separate functioning of the state and religious communities under the Fundamental Law, but based on cooperation in the performance of public tasks. Overall, the proposal before us is capable of achieving these objectives. That is why I ask all the factions and Members sitting in Parliament to support the proposed bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-21	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2015-11-17-22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, As in the previous term, I felt obliged to speak on the one hand, as a reformed minister in terms of my profession, and on the other hand as a member of the Committee on Religious Affairs. Of course, I would like to express my opinion briefly with the same motivation. My fellow Members of the opposition, in particular, might think that I may be in a great deal of trouble if I again wish to speak in favour of amending the bill. [[11.10]] This is not true, however, because I believe that our goals remain unchanged and that we must only find the right means to achieve them. But let us see what these goals really are. As my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás referred to in the national expozee, the constitutional obligation of the Hungarian State is to cooperate with the churches. We know that there are many models in the world in relation to the relationship between the church and the state; some believe in complete separation, and of course there is a European Union country where there is still a church of state. We have always said that, because of our history, we should use our own Hungarian model, which is based on the cooperation of the state and the church. The Fundamental Law states that the state and religious communities operate separately, religious communities are independent, the state and religious communities can cooperate to achieve Community goals. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to international criticisms and the coercive force of other forums, the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law requires the amendment of the Church Act. The former interpretation of the Constitutional Court on the relationship between the state and churches was maintained by the text of the Fundamental Law, which is currently in force, when it explicitly stated that, in addition to the separation of functions, the State is cooperating with the churches for Community purposes. In defining Community objectives and areas and forms of cooperation within the framework of the Fundamental Law, the State has a relatively free margin of manoeuvre, since it is not generally obliged to contribute to the achievement of the objectives set by a religious community if it does not otherwise undertake a public task in the context of this activity. Therefore, I personally think it is particularly fortunate that, in addition to the amendment of the law on ecclesiastical matters, church financing issues can be discussed within this bill. And as I understand it, this demand has already been raised by the MSZP in five-party negotiations. In determining the rules on material assistance, the State should take account of the specific features of the right to religious freedom and of the fact that a religious community is not unduly disadvantaged compared to other religious communities in a comparable situation on the basis of objective criteria. In the light of the practice of the Constitutional Court, we can also conclude that it is not a constitutional requirement that all religious communities actually have the same rights, nor that the State actually cooperates with all religious communities to the same extent, until the distinction is derived from discriminatory legislation or until it is the result of discriminatory practices. The distinction between social support and engagement, i.e. according to objective and reasonable conditions, does not conflict with constitutional principles. At the same time, of course, the state's world-view neutrality must prevail, whether it is about solving community tasks undertaken by the state, or about financial support made available to religious communities, or about mandatory community cooperation between the state and religious communities. Speaking of finances, I would like to continue to remember our efforts to prevent so-called business churches from operating as religious communities. The Constitutional Court, which has already been mentioned many times today, also recognised in its critical position on the current ecclesiastical legislation, the possibility of misuse of a specific status and the need for effective action against it. The Constitutional Court has set it as a kind of standard for the legislator and the government to be able to act effectively in order to prevent abuses, to exploit their rights unlawfully and to detect non-religious organisations. This objective can be achieved by establishing the conditions for the registration procedure, by means of rules guaranteeing legal operation and by means of an objective, yet effective control, i.e. prosecutor, which does not restrict religious freedom. The Constitutional Court has also pointed out that the State has not only the right, but also the duty to take action against infringements. Thus, with the church rules before us, the legislator will undertake nothing less than to comply with the principles laid down in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and to remain true to the traditions of the Hungarian Church. The amendment of the cardinal church law therefore includes in part the elements of the new church organization system with which it introduces new categories, as well as the basic rules on freedom of religion, freedom of religion, principles determining the relationship between the state and religious communities, autonomy and specific status of religious communities, rules and guarantees of the procedure for their registration, the principles of cooperation between the state and religious communities in the performance of public tasks and public funding, as well as safeguards for the protection and legal functioning of religious communities. The fundamental provision of the Act sets out the possibility of agreements with registered churches which traditionally carry out outstanding public tasks and which have entered into special strategic partnership cooperation with the State as a result of their social acceptance and embedded status. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust, and perhaps taking into account what has been said, it is not unfounded that the bill before us will in the long term and reassure the legal fate of religious communities, the conditions for cooperation between the state and the church, and it will achieve this constitutionally, in accordance with international legal requirements. Therefore, I respectfully ask the representatives of all parties to support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-23	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman. [[11.20]]
u2015-11-17-24	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that, and Congressman Gergely Gulyás, who held his expo, also referred to the precedents of this law, which dates back to the previous term. We remember how the KDNP President of the Parliamentary Committee for Religious Affairs once said that Parliament should be in favour of which community it can become a church and from which community it cannot. We also remember the absurd committee debates where, during the committee meeting, Fidesz and KDNP practically agreed on the content of the Church Act, and during the committee debate, they had to take a break in order to submit a proposal with a different content to the parliamentary committee, the Constitutional Affairs Committee. We're a few of us who've lived through this, and we've been involved in this process. I say - and I am pleased that my fellow members of the Government have also acknowledged, if at some pressure from the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg - that this was a completely wrong direction and that it was a mistake to shape the regulation here. Indeed, as my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás said, it would be possible to say at this time in this law that we have said in advance, as in the case of many other laws, let us say, which concern the administration of justice, and that the government was forced to withdraw from it. However, I believe that, because it is one of the most important areas, because it is faith that gives people strength, comfort, or the meaning of life, and the churches that proclaim and represent faith, which we are discussing today, I therefore think that every faction must be very open to this debate. That's what I do for my part. When I make critical remarks, I do so solely for the sake of improving intent. I would like and would like to achieve a church law, a regulation that guarantees freedom of religious practice for all denominations, for all religions, which does not discriminate, and which allows everyone to live their faith as widely as possible, and that everyone can play a role, whether in the church in which they want to be, or in the church in which they want to be able to function, so that their operating conditions can be fulfilled. This is the ambition, I think, that we all have to bear in mind, and therefore, I stress: that is why we are making critical comments and we are asking the government to be open to this. There was indeed a five-party discussion. I took part in the five-party meeting once with Minister Trócsányi on the side of our group, and I thought it was a truly constructive discussion, if you will. The problem is that after that we did not see this constructivity coming back in the proposal and I do not see it coming back in this proposal before us. The reason why we did not go to the second round of the five-party negotiations is because I believe and believe on the part of the faction that it is worth maintaining the impression that this is a democratic conciliation process if it appears to have some result. After we have spoken to Minister Trócsányi about what we think is necessary as a change; after all this has been confirmed in writing; after we have sent our comments in writing to Mr Kósa, and yet we have seen nothing to say back in the current law, I think this does not refer to constructivity, which is why we have stopped our participation in the five-party negotiations. Nevertheless, since I think - I would like to emphasise once again - that faith, belief, the exercise of faith, the creation of non-discriminatory possibilities for the functioning of churches and guaranteeing free religious practice are one of our most important issues, we will therefore make proposals for amendments and ask the governing parties to reconsider their support. There is no doubt a positive change in the way this law moves. Positive, and if I would like to highlight the greatest positive, this is that it is not the Parliament - let me refer back to our former fellow Member Luke - that will depend on the grace of who will be a church and who will not, but will once again be restored to the hands of the courts, and there an objective system of consideration will be used to assess who fulfils these conditions and who does not. What I would perhaps like to highlight as the most serious criticism, and here I am not talking about legal, but, in fact, about the criticism that has been raised in relation to social consultation. Small churches or medium-sized churches, which undoubtedly benefit society and cannot be regarded as a business church, I say because the original law sought to filter out business churches, and I say that because of the fact that faith life, the doctrines of faith, of course, is lived and challenged by who is not in relation to a particular church, but these churches, which I am talking about, are doing a very serious charitable activity, for example. And they're not satisfied with this bill. It would be worth listening more to their criticism to the government and heed it more than to the authors. Let me get to the legal considerations, and then perhaps I would like to present the most important criticisms. The submission of the bill is undoubtedly urgent from a legal point of view, as Parliament has been in breach of law for more than a year. On 9 September 2014, the legal deadline for the Parliament to decide on the recognition of several small churches as churches expired. He had a deadline of 60 days, which the Parliament missed. The Constitutional Court's 23/2015 decision last stated that the Law on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities 14. § (c) (ca) and (cb) and Article 14/A. § (1), (2) and (3) are in breach of an international treaty. Therefore, the Constitutional Court called on the Parliament to take the necessary measures to resolve the conflict. That deadline expired on 15 October 2015. We have repeatedly expressed the fact that, despite a number of progress-making legal solutions, we cannot support the various drafts, which is what I have been talking about. Firstly, it would have been better, honourable Members, I know that this has been the case with Minister Trocsányi, and that is not the point, but it would have been worth accepting that what has been done so far is not good; and that what we are trying to do together should be. In your proposal, 90 percent of the bill changes, compared to the previous one, so it would have been worth not insisting on the name, number of the old law, but creating a new law. I don't think that's a matter of prestige. Even because the legislative initiative of its representatives suffers from fundamental legislative errors, which, if I want to put it very sharply, makes it almost impossible to negotiate it. Let me give you an example. Article 3 of the proposal is replaced by the following: §2 is recognised as a fundamental provision by lawmakers, although Article II of the Act states that the provisions of Article 2 of the Act do not apply. Chapter 6-8 §2 does not require a fundamental majority. The same is true of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Article 12 of the proposal. Paragraph 1 (a) also does not require a fundamental majority. It is essential that provisions requiring a fundamental majority and not requiring it can be clearly separated at the same stage. However, there is no separation within this section, since one chapter is regulated by the proposal 3 and 4. §2 of the Treaty, it will be impossible to vote on the sections concerned in accordance with house rules. [[11.30]] We can certainly propose an amendment to this, but this was certainly an example of the lack of a good codification standard in the legislation and the merit of creating a consolidated new law on a consensual basis. Then we can also see concerns about the Fundamental Law, since Article VII provides for the following: Article VII of the Fundamental Law. In accordance with Article 4 (4), the concept of a common church appears in religious communities, and it would have been justified to amend the Fundamental Law here, let us say that it should be amended, since, in particular, the basic law of the proposal is lacking, and thus it would be contrary to the Fundamental Law. There will be no churches as opposed to the basic legislative provisions, since the proposal abolishes this concept. On the one hand, the proposal removes the category of the established church, practically eliminating it from the legal system, but on the other hand, it acts as the registered churches, if they enter into a cooperation agreement with the state, gain an established church quality. This is just so that you do not have to amend the Fundamental Law, although if we can reach a compromise on these issues, then why would it be an obstacle, because it would require a two-thirds majority and that too. The loss of prestige can already be accounted for by you. The other is that, as is the specific rights of the churches, I think that again the guarantee will be knocked out in Strasbourg, because it is obvious that they will be treated as discriminatory as in the period of the destruction of the churches in recent years. In contrast to the basic provisions, it is proposed that the State should not only grant specific rights to established churches, but also to all religious communities with legal personality. But in reality, there is no provision for such rights, so, in my view, these high-hope provisions are completely unappreciable from a guarantee point of view; therefore, bush - as they say - on the hat, on the sword, I do not know exactly. Some important critical elements. Content: It is possible for religious communities to participate in tasks to achieve Community objectives if statutory conditions are met. The State contribution scheme for public tasks may also be defined only by objective criteria. In contrast, the conditions for cooperation with religious communities in the proposal are subjective as before, as were the conditions for recognition as a church. In our view, all religious communities with legal personality which preserve historical and cultural values, education, education, higher education, health, charitable, social, family, children's and youth, cultural or sports activities and other activities of public interest should cooperate without discrimination. There should be no room for reflection within the framework of cooperation. If the State wishes to cooperate with a religious community engaged in public activities, it shall agree with all religious communities having the same conditions for the activity concerned. I think that's a very important thing, because you can't discriminate here. This is not about ordinary state aid, so when a church takes over state tasks, it is not possible for the state to discriminate as to which church it supports and which church it does not. We also consider it essential that the new regulation adequately compensates the religious communities that were forced to bring their case before the European Court of Human Rights. The full legal and financial compensation of religious communities that have been disadvantaged by previous regulations must be ensured, which, in our view, although there are positive signs of this in this law, is far from satisfactory. Ladies and gentlemen, What is also of great concern to me, and I will say the rest of the criticisms in continuing the general debate, the enforcement of the national security aspect in relation to becoming a church, even if there are arguments in this regard, since this is what we talked about in the course of the negotiations. To sum up, fellow Members, and not closed, since the arguments will continue in my own and my fellow Members' speeches, I say that we should strive to find a common, good solution. We will propose this with amendments, since guaranteeing the life of faith, guaranteeing the life of faith, guaranteeing non-discriminatory ecclesiastical function is one of the most important tasks of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-17-25	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2015-11-17-26	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament is the 2011 CCVI. By creating a law, he re-regulated the freedom of collective and public religious practice guaranteed by the right to freedom of conscience and religion, i.e. the institutional framework for common religious practice, with effect from 1 January 2012. The fundamental problem with the former church law was that the conditions for the founding of the church were extremely loose, through which a number of business churches were established in 20 years, which had nothing to do with the life of faith but rather with economic growth. This legislation has been subject to numerous criticisms by churches and civil society, which have raised a social need for a comprehensive rethink of legislation. In line with social needs, the 2012 New Church Act re-regulates the institutional framework for the joint exercise of religious activity and introduced a so-called multi-level legal status system known in various state church law models. The Church Act provides for the possibility of common religious practice on the one hand for previously registered religious communities - an association engaged in religious activities under Article 34 of the Law. § (1) - and on the other hand the church - the law 7. § (1) - guaranteed within its institutional framework. Both forms of organisation have provided members with separate legal entities to carry out joint religious practice and related educational, health or other good service activities. Ladies and Gentlemen, It follows from the above that, at the same time, not the right to practice common religion in Hungary has ceased, as has been shown by the various siren voices, but the meaning of church status under the former church law and the institutional framework for common religious practice have changed with the 2011 Church Law. On the basis of all of this and constitutional complaints, the Constitutional Court should have taken a decision only on the question whether the regulatory concept of the Church Act guarantees the provisions of Article VII of the Fundamental Law. 1 (1) the institutional framework for common religious practice resulting from religious freedom. However, the Constitutional Court has examined not only this but also the provisions on the reimbursement of budget support, income tax benefits, educational and other costs linked to the types of religious groups. In spite of our reference to similar regulatory concepts in other European countries regarding the assessment of compliance with the Basic Law before the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has, in our view, unlawfully waived them; it is illegal, because if other European countries can have the same concept of ecclesiastical law with us and it is completely legal, then the same concept can be illegal for us Hungarians. What kind of equality is that? [[11.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Constitutional Court, therefore, despite the facts 6/2013. By its majority decision, Ab stated that the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the rights of churches, religious communities. According to some of the provisions of the Law, it is illegal. This Constitutional Court statement and the judgment in Strasbourg made it necessary to amend the law on ecclesiastical matters. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the spirit of necessity, the MEPs of Fidesz and KDNP jointly submitted the CCVI 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and on the rights of churches, religious groups and religious communities. T/7409 on the amendment of law and other related laws. Bill No. 1. According to this bill of amendment, in the future churches would not be recognized by the Hungarian Parliament, but would be registered by the churches in court proceedings. The bill also states that a religious community with legal personality can be a religious association, a registered church or a registered church. Ladies and Gentlemen, Any religious community may become a religious association if there are at least ten members. The criteria for becoming a registered church with an already ecclesiastical status in the average of the three years prior to registration are at least 400 1 percent sija recommendations and the function as a religious association of at least five years. On the average of the five years, religious communities with at least 4,000 1 percent sija offerings and long-standing legitimate religious communities are registered by the court as registered churches. The required duration of operation: 20 years as a religious association or 15 years as a registered church or 100 years of organisation, international operation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the above bill is therefore, on the one hand, to bring the legal resources together between the Church Act and the 5th amendment adopted after its entry into force, and, on the other hand, to close open regulatory issues that have arisen in connection with the current legislation at the domestic forum, as I said, before the Constitutional Court and at the international forum before the Venice Commission and the European Court of Human Rights. In the long term, the bill seeks to provide a solution to the full application of freedom of conscience and religion, and to the separate activities of the Hungarian state and the religious communities operating in Hungary under the Fundamental Law, but based on cooperation in the performance of public tasks. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you to support the T/7409 on the amendment of the church law. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-27	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-17-28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that you do not exercise favor when you talk about why and how we are here, especially after... I don't know, there may be one or two other Members here with whom I am, say, at the top of the list of speakers, because only with regard to the church law in the last four years, if I count it well, this is my fifth speech as a speaker, and all five times you have talked about nothing else, except what a fantastic, embedded law you have created, which does not need to be touched upon, and will settle the fate of religious communities in the long term, for decades, and guaranteed to eliminate any abuse of any kind, and any legitimate problem that has otherwise been raised in 2010 that the untenable regulation really needs to be abolished, we fully agree. Let us say that I am particularly pleased that this speech was not launched by the pro-government representatives, perhaps the last time, how great it was that we could negotiate it during the Advent period or near the Advent period, because it was not because that period came, but because you managed to put a proposal on the table every single time, which was bleeding from a thousand wounds, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, you missed a lot of circles that, I think, were a huge mistake. And, of course, they didn't tell us, in any case, either from Fidesz or KDNP, that we saw the mistakes that we made; no, the pointing goes again. But it wasn't a problem here because someone maligned a report, or the various institutions of international forums spotted a problem area, but it was basically crackling and crackling. And besides the fact that there are soothing and forward-looking elements, there is a problem with it right now, so there are a lot of parts that have not been raised at the two five-party negotiations, and look how wisely I have spoken in the five-party consultation regarding the fact that I don't dare to say yet, although it seemed absolutely supportive at first reading, because we don't know what is hidden between the lines, and, well, here we have found passages between the lines that are not necessarily a positive move or a positive promotion of faith life, and I will certainly go on. The fact that we cannot get rid of the quantitative criteria remains problematic - I have said this all five times, and I am telling you now. Obviously, it has been facilitated, so there have been significant facilitations compared to the previous inflexible, almost unfulfilled criteria, but the principle is the same. It has also been said here by Congressman Vejkey that the one who can offer 400 personal income tax at 1 percent is great - this is just an example, and I obviously don't want to list the whole thing. And if it's 398, then what? So that's what has to be decided whether or not one is a church? I am not saying this because I would support the fact that here it is happy-happy for the purpose of the business that we saw in the 1990s to create a church; I would like to draw attention to the fact that the quantitative criteria cannot replace quality and are not above it. I think that a religious community, an institutionalized form of faith, is not a church because of how many members it has, how many personal income tax offerings it has behind it, but from whether it meets the substance of all its mission, which is its calling. However, in terms of its content, this law does not put it first, but many others. It is true that, by appearance, three categories are defined in the draft law, but there are some voices that say that these three categories are actually six categories, because there are different statuses through a separate agreement. I would very much like this to be explained once and for all in black white; here, in particular, the 9th and 38th. A number of people are expressing opinions that we are not actually talking about three categories here, but more, because there will be a state in the state. I would like to stress that I have a problem in itself with the government making a special agreement with some church, and I have no problem with that on the ground, but I do not want them to be angry with it, but with regard to their past five years of work, I say that God forbid such a two-thirds law be passed. [[11.50]] That's because you're under this mandate, which was in the previous cycle, and what you don't have now, but almost, you haven't lived properly, you've abused it. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] That's a very warning example. Whatever form of government - obviously I can talk about you now - or any party-like power in Hungary, the last five years prove only in almost every case that power is not being used, but is being abused. It's clear from this bill, and God forbid any religious community or church here thinks that I would be against them, or I'm going against them, so that there are no such opportunities, no! I'm telling you because of the last five years of practice, how dangerous this is. Once again, I stress that the fact that a state or a government has specific agreements or cooperation agreements, whatever it may be, is not a problem with a church, but only from the past period, all of these have been for shady purposes which have a reason to believe that if the opposition is concerned here, then there is a basis for it. Which is joyful, and I think this may be the only point in which all opposition parties agreed and were very happy, and all opposition parties wanted to prevent this during the previous term, namely, that Parliament should decide who church is and who doesn't. We have seen where this has led, and I have not heard that, yes, we see here in front of the Parliament that this was a very bad precedent, and it has been confirmed. I would really just like to give you an example, and it is typical that this was produced by a Christian Democrat in the previous term, namely, György Rubovszky, when, as chairman of the committee, he began to talk about - the minutes can be looked back - that he was called by a certain ambassador of a country about which religious communities to vote with the pro-government majority. Well, that was your attitude over the last term, and that was the attitude of the Christian Democrats to church law and religious issues, and that was how much you could be trusted! When we said, "God forbid, that Parliament should decide such matters, you tried to reassure everyone on your own wisdom, how good it would be. We have seen how well it worked, and we have also seen how they have lost a multitude of lawsuits in international forums, not by accident, and not because one of the opposition parties fired up these communities, but screamed at injustice and screamed at political, power arrogance all over the regulation. What I would like to draw attention to in particular, which is at least as problematic, is specifically the 4th. §, which regulates confidentiality, and essentially for the churches only the secrecy of the life of faith and, let us say, leave the operation of the local government. That's insane. If someone is assuming that you want to list, then he can't be far from the truth again, because what do you want to know about historical churches or others? You want to look at every single box? Do you want to know how and how church leaders make decisions in the Church's internal hierarchy? What do you mean, it's just about life of faith? Basically, you leave the confessional secret, or I'd like to leave it to the churches under this paragraph, and about everything else, if you claim it, by law, you'd have a reporting obligation for each church. That's insane. If I go to my church as a Catholic who regularly exercises my faith, and there, I don't know, for the benefit of a Catholic primary school or a Catholic kindergarten, or for any other charitable purpose, there should not be any connection for the government to, for example, how much of it came together there, because according to this paragraph, specifically, Article 4. This is what you can ask for, because what's in it, I see there's a dilemma, it says specifically that the possibility of secrecy only applies to the life of faith, but it doesn't dictate what the life of faith is anymore. It's not regulated anywhere by the law! Let's face it, it's another legal screw, which may just be negligence, it may just be careless, but essentially, it would mean that if the government at all asked for donations or offerings that were made on the weekends, the law would make it possible for the church to provide you with this. It's a disaster, and I don't think it's gonna stop in the long run. But once again, the possibility of who is a church and who is not a church is removed from the authority of Parliament, and this is in itself, and we should only support it, because the system that is now is catastrophic. However, it is also certain that we will be using amendments, including such regulatory clarification, because if we can believe the various news - which has been published in the press in recent days - we do not believe that there is a church in Hungary today that likes this. It is no coincidence that part of it has been deleted, which is still in force, which has, in particular, guaranteed a kind of church self-government so far. I think that in continuing the general debate, I will also address what paragraph is a huge mistake to delete. However, if your intention was not to do anything wrong, negative, or any trick to do with the special agreements, because in the five-party negotiations it came up that it was more about such symbolic cooperation, and I do not know, for example, the maintenance and assistance of monuments owned by churches, and the rest, then why can't they be listed as taxatically? Once again, I am not against it, and I do not see any problem in that if a government at all has special agreements with different communities or churches, but if we do not want to trick, then these are some areas, because this will not be a lot of areas, it would be safe to list them as taxatives, and then it would be clear what the intention is. Once again, they do not see the opposition's disapproval or constant opposition behaviour in this criticism, but rather the fact that, especially on this issue, where we are negotiating for the fifth time in a narrow time period, they have lost the confidence that everyone here believes that there is actually only good intentions. There may be good intentions, but they do not express themselves correctly, and unfortunately they give us room for various concerns. Unfortunately, my fellow Member Bárándy has gone out, but he will obviously follow back what was said in the debate. Here he specifically mentioned that the possibility of national security risk is being regulated by the law. Yes, I have suggested this several times in the previous term and in the five-party negotiations. I, for one, am very happy that this national security pass is in place. I would like to emphasise that this is not a mandatory nature and not an automatic one. This is an opportunity for the court or court to feel that something is not round and to think about the great wave of immigration, or if the MSZP accepted or accepted the quota system, and that religions in the Far East, let's say, would appear with uncertain origins that would otherwise meet these criteria without any problems. Here I also say why the quantitative criterion is a problem, because these could be fulfilled without problems, while vahabita or salafita are a branch of the Islamic religion, from which the Islamic State feeds today, and we can see the number of people that this community is already kicking in in Bosnia, and this could be done in Hungary. When we mention national security risks, that's exactly what we mean, not from the present state, but from the fact that if our fates get worse at this level, then there should be a legal opportunity that can rule out these risks correctly. I see that my time is up, so I will, of course, detail the concerns that I have just mentioned in continuing the general debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[12.00]]
u2015-11-17-29	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-11-17-30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the church law before us is inevitable, but all parliamentary forces must decide on the vote with due care and responsibility. The guiding thread of LMP's mission is the validation of three core values, and these are sustainability, justice and participation. We also strive to enforce these principles in the ecclesiastical field. I'd like to start with what the LMP would do in church. In any case, it would be very important for us to start from Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and very thorough, thoughtful, long-term consultation and matured legislation, so if we chose such a method, it would in any case create a good law as a result of a lengthy process. This long consultation, we have to admit, we have looked into it, in search of many smaller and larger churches, that there have actually been requests, they have consulted a lot of actors, but we have received feedback that their views and comments, from here to the smallest ones, have not been taken into account. So the negotiations are empty, meaningless, if, in the end, there are no aspects that are deemed necessary by the actors, the stakeholders. And so much for the matured text is that they remember the 2011 KDNP proposal, when we ourselves, LMP representatives, came here looking for a good amendment, and by the end of the day, we noticed that with various fidesz amendments something had become quite different. So, here too, a year ago, there's been news of a new church law being made in the care of the Minister of Justice. Where's the Attorney General? Why has there been such a change in the proposal? We find this very strange, and, of course, there are a lot of mistakes that suddenly come up with a last-minute text with a lot of last-minute modifications. I would remind the pro-government representatives that, even before the five-party negotiations, there was a very, very limited time frame to study all the details of this, since there are 15 bouquets of transitional provisions, there can be a lot of hidden things in this. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that we consider it very important in relation to church law that, in the long term, the rules on the status of churches and the financing of churches are separated. I have run ahead and I would like to return: the proposal that we have just tabled is a proposal from a government in a step-by-step, which proposes not a completely new regulation, but a major amendment of the Church Act. We have come to the present situation by saying that the new system adopted by the Fidesz-KDNP majority in scandalous circumstances, which entered into force in 2012, did not comply with domestic or international law, so the Hungarian ecclesiastical administration has been in an ex-lex state for almost four years. The history of the 2012 Act is talkative. The Hungarian turning point was the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, following the constitutional complaint of 17 churches and the initiative of the Ombudsman, found several substantive provisions of the law to be unconstitutional. According to the Constitutional Court, the recognition of the status of church by parliamentary vote and the fact that Parliament is entitled to take a decision leads to certain decisions on a political basis, which is incompatible with the requirements of the Fundamental Law. The Constitutional Court annulled the regulatory model with retroactive effect. The majority of the governments, following the Constitutional Court's decision, neutralized the objections of the Constitutional Court by amending the Fundamental Law, so instead of correcting the anomalies revealed by the Constitutional Court, it raised them to a constitutional level. In April 2014, the European Court of Human Rights also stated that the Hungarian Church Law violates the right to freedom of religion provided for in Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and also the right of association provided for in Article 11. This summer, the Constitutional Court found certain provisions of the Church Law to be contrary to an international treaty in view of the judgment in Strasbourg and called on the legislator to take the necessary measures to resolve the conflict by 15 October 2015. I would like to note here that when the 2012 law was debated, this law was called a legislative masterpiece by the Deputy Prime Minister. Here we go. We are here one month after the deadline for remedying the omission, and we see that one of the essential elements of the bill before us now is that the registration of religious communities with legal personality does not involve the recognition of churches, but the registration of the courts, with the possibility of a proper judicial remedy. This is what the LMP strongly welcomes, and this is where the opposition is completely uniformly positive, it seems. Obviously, it couldn't be any other way, it's a good move. However, the proposal would require the court instead of Parliament to examine the applicant's loans and their consistency with the statutory definition when assessing the application for registration of the religious association. The problem is, however, that this does not ultimately ensure the neutrality of the State. This provision raises the question of the grounds on which a court not familiar with religious science will judge whether it is a religious activity. It is also a cause for concern that the amendment, although legislation in principle declares the neutrality of the state, the separation of the state and religious communities for all communities primarily engaged in religious activities, is still not normical and the framework for cooperation. Despite the criteria which appear to be objective, the State is essentially deciding on its own subjective aspects, e.g. on the basis of vague wordings such as the experience gained in the activities they have traditionally carried out for public purposes. This is a completely incomprehensible criterion, which cannot be called objective. So on this basis, who he cooperates with will continue to depend on a political decision as to which churches the state cooperates with, which churches it finances and to what extent, obviously in relation to the public tasks they carry out. It is also problematic that the state supports not only the public, but also the religious activities of registered and registered churches, as proposed, because thus the promotion of religious activity leads to an addiction between the state and the church. We regard it as a particularly bad direction that the proposal continues to favour churches that have not suffered any violation of rights, as opposed to disenfranchised churches. The churches, which are now recognized, would once again be in the highest-ranking, most privileged status by virtue of the law, regardless of whether they meet the requirements for it - I will give you a few examples of that - while all other churches could obtain only the status guaranteed by their social acceptance and embedded status. Churches deprived of their status in 2012, which are still operating, would not be able to regain their status if, under new conditions, only the status of the religious association or the registered church could be acquired. Thus, not all religious communities start from the same starting line on the basis of the proposal. While the bill contains forward-looking solutions compared to the current legislation, in particular the referral of the register of religious communities to judicial jurisdiction, it can be said that it does not fully meet the objectives set. [[12.10]] In order to achieve the most extensive status of ecclesiastical rights, the Constitutional Court, and the European Court of Human Rights, continue to define the conditions which have already been deemed excessive in the decision of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, and does not provide sufficient guarantees to ensure normability against arbitrary application of the law. The proposals of the LMP amendment will address these concerns in order to avoid the repetition of the run of the past years, i.e. the repeated domestic and international condemnation of the Hungarian church law. The bill submitted unnecessarily complicates the definition of the organisational framework for religious activity when it defines five different legal categories. According to the LMP, this unnecessarily structured regulatory solution needs to be simplified. Of course, religious communities without legal personality should be allowed to function, since the will of the members of the community concerned must be respected if they do not wish to exercise their religion among the secular legal categories. On the other hand, religious communities with legal personality should be classified according to their social support under objective conditions, offering the smaller communities the religious association, while the larger communities the registered church legal formula. According to the decision of the 23/2015 Constitutional Court and of the European Court of Human Rights, the number of 10 000 persons, and consequently the only criterion of the government's estimated 4,000 proposed amendment, will provide for an excessive reduction. This is also justified by the fact that, in relation to the conditions imposed on established churches, this would constitute a substantively stricter criterion, since two thirds of the current churches would meet, one third of them would not meet the criterion of having the 4,000 siya offerings. So it's a double standard, and obviously it's called discrimination. We consider it extremely important that cooperation between religious communities and the state be carried out according to normative rules, excluding political discretion and self-conscious law enforcement. The bill, on the other hand, essentially makes it a matter of free discretion as to which religious communities the state enters into or does not enter into an agreement with. On the other hand, we propose that the state should conclude an agreement based on the same principle on a church initiative by, of course, taking account of objectively existing differences between religious communities when concluding the agreement. In order to avoid unjustified discrimination between different religious communities due to non-Agreements, the LMP's proposed amendment would set out the possibility of redress, by providing a judicial or constitutional path, or even through the proper application of the Vatican Treaty, pending the establishment of a binding agreement or in the event of non-compliance. Finally, to give a concrete example, many churches in Hungary or no longer called a church, but in any case a religious community expressly object to this, because it does not see this current amendment as progress. They have appealed to the appropriate international body, international forum for the loss of their ecclesiastical status, and they see that their problem is not solved by this amendment, which is now before us. In the light of many of our reservations, LMP will support this amendment in the vote only if it results in a just and acceptable church law, not in maintaining the current situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-17-31	Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. You have the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-11-17-32	Thank you very much. Dear House, In its own way, as many people have already said, today's debate is depressing, given what the church law of a democratic country, which is about freedom of conscience, we knew very well years ago. Compared to this, this debate must now be held, because the religious law produced by the Orbán government a few years ago did not comply with the Hungarian Fundamental Law, and moreover, the European Court of Human Rights has rejected it in several rounds, it is certainly very worrying; especially because I believe, as many have already said, that this proposal again does not meet the conditions that a constitutional religion law must meet. Let us see what these conditions are, what a truly constitutional religion law should look like! First of all, it should comply with the principles of freedom of conscience, neutrality of the state and equality of rights. Ensuring the right to equal freedom of conscience, the principle of separation between the state and the church and the ideal of a neutral state in the religious sense are the result of the political insight that modern societies are world-wide diverse. Therefore, any commitment of the state to a church makes the authority of the state questionable, in any case by those who, if any, are not believers of the favored church. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] On the other hand, the experience of totalitarian arrangements for the elimination of pluralism is also a liberating basis for the state to remain neutral in the competition between rival world views. The state cannot act as a judge of the worldviews; it cannot say that one world view is better or worse than the other; nor can it say that the life form of a believer, a certain number of believers, is better than the life form of other believers. It is good that here, in this debate today, it is clearly stated that this law is indeed trying to create a state religion. I think that Hungary simply cannot afford this for historical reasons. Partly since the Reformation, church life has been plural in Hungary, and the experience of communism clearly shows that favoritism and exclusivity with churches can lead to very serious consequences. The religion law of Hungary must respect the plurality of conscience. Freedom of conscience is also closely linked to freedom of association with others, including the freedom to associate people on a world view basis. To do so, the State must ensure a fair and equal level playing field, an organisational framework, and must respect the autonomy of the churches very much. The creation of churches must be possible, and the freedom to do so is, in fact, a special case of freedom of association. As a result, the conditions for recognition as a church must not be substantive in any way. The state cannot tell us what constitutes faith, nor can it choose on a world view basis which communities are granted the status of a church and for which it is not. The acquisition of ecclesiastical status should only be an administrative procedure. Equality of law implies that no church can claim discrimination against other ecclesiastical communities on the basis of criteria that are irrelevant to citizens' freedom of conscience, such as social support or historical history. It can't be governed by that XIX. The model of the century, which was also preserved by the Communist regime, which gives the so-called historical churches a public-law, state-religious license. The principle of freedom of conscience and equality of law also gives the State responsibility for public support. The State cannot make a distinction between church and church or civil society in its view if they perform a public task. With regard to state support for public tasks, of course, the control of these funds is a legitimate need on the part of the State, but in the case of religious support, the distinction is completely illegal. The state cannot support certain churches in a differentiated way compared to others if they perform the same public tasks. [[12.20]] The new church law also requires a fundamental law amendment, as the current Fundamental Law does not take into account the requirements of the state's neutrality, citizens' freedom of conscience and equality of law. Unfortunately, this bill still does not meet these conditions. Although the proposal has restored the right to register the churches from Parliament to the courts and makes it easier to fulfil the conditions of becoming a church, the new bill continues to give the government countless opportunities to favor and abuse certain churches. It cannot be supported that, according to the bill, there are several different ecclesiastical statuses, not even the rights of established churches would be equal. There are serious reservations about the planned system of financial support for churches. It appears that the government's aim is to conclude the full financing with the State in an individual agreement. This is a real big problem, just like the government is making so-called strategic agreements with certain companies. Both those and these special agreements undermine the rule of law and the system of public trust. The whole point of their special deal is that in exchange for financial support, the State may have special expectations, if any, not public. This is extremely dangerous practice for churches. The autonomy of the churches is at stake here, and so it is harmful and risky for all Hungarian churches. The recognition and support of churches should be based only on objective criteria. Of course, the good criteria exclude crooks from the churches, but they recognize all those who carry out meaningful religious activities. Financial support should be based on a normative basis, essentially for the purpose of carrying out public benefit activities. This bill does not meet any of these requirements, does not comply with the principles of a neutral state, nor does it meet the fundamental democratic principles of freedom of conscience or equality of law. From this proposal, it seems to me that the government wants to implement arbitrary power, a kind of eastern government, in support of religion. If this is adopted in this way, it is possible to prepare for this law to once again go to the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-33	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned, continued and closed today as the last item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2009 LXII on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by the representatives of György Balla, Gergely Gulyás and Erik Bánki and Alpár Gyopáros Fidesz, T/7307. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-17-34	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a simple bill, and since I have been informed that the bill has been an undivided success in the Economic Committee, all groups, including my fellow opposition Members, have supported it, I believe that there is no need for an immensely long exposure. But I think there are some questions that are worth talking about in this proposal. The first element is what is the situation in the compulsory insurance market today, what is the situation that justifies this bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it has been common practice for a few years now that a significant number of insurance companies have been deceiving their clients, pursuing practices, in particular for the purpose of market acquisition, in which new insurance is significantly cheaper than insurance previously concluded. Ad absurdum, if a customer at the same insurance company terminates the contract for the same car by the end of the day, and then concludes the same contract with the same insurance company, he will pay less than the one who leaves this contract in its bona fide process, because he thinks he is facing partners who are honest, who appreciate loyalty, and you don't even think that the reverse is true. Of course, you can say that everyone has the right, everyone can terminate the contract, and everyone can re-enlist with the insurance company they think they are. That's true, I just think it goes against every moral, every decency, every moral, every common sense. It is not the right attitude to deceive clients who trust us in order to attract others. In fact, the proposal removes this possibility. The proposal speaks of nothing more than the fact that, of course, customers can be given a discount, but only and exclusively to old customers. In English, he's trying to move in a direction that comes from human decency. Because people still think that it's good for me to be respected by someone whose partner I've been for many years, to whom I pay my awards honestly, not to play, but to stick with a partner. The opposite has happened so far, but after this proposal, if Parliament accepts it and enters into force, it can turn around or turn around, and faithful customers can get a discount, in Hungarian the people of good faith who trusted their insurance company, and perhaps they can trust them, contrary to previous practice. It is worth talking about whether this incorrect practice is only in the context of compulsory car liability insurance, or whether other insurances and other service providers are using this unfair, basically bona fide, market-acquisition solution that is deceiving their customers. Unfortunately, we are experiencing similar solutions in the telecommunications sector, in the cable sector and in some cases in the banking sector. Everyone can therefore rightly wonder why the proposal is only about motor vehicle liability insurance, while not about other services of this nature. The answer is simple: what's late doesn't go away. But I'm gonna go to the service providers with confidence. I trust that if this proposal is adopted by Parliament and everyone sees clearly what the direction is, then the above-mentioned service providers - telephone companies, cable TVs, banks and other insurances such as insurance companies - will realize that they are better off transforming their business policies on their own than if Parliament is obliged to keep them in line with laws. But I am absolutely certain of one thing: if they do not move on their own towards integrity and morals, then it is our job, responsible representatives, to stand on the side of the people, to respect the people, to protect the people, and then, in the next term of Parliament, we will probably have to come up with similar legislative proposals. Thank you for your attention and for your support for the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.30]]
u2015-11-17-35	Thank you, Congressman Balla. I would like to ask you on behalf of the government whether you wish to speak for Secretary of State Cseresnyés. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-17-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say that the government naturally supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I am asking if anyone from the Fidesz Group would like to speak. The rapporteur points out that he does not, since everything that is necessary has been said as a national. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-11-17-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As mentioned in the proposal, we are discussing a draft law which, on the basis of the judgment of value, seeks to replace a dissonance, a maladministration. Allow us to talk about this in a slightly broader extension, i.e. the issue of compulsory car liability insurance, but only in an aspect that is absolutely connected to it. I'm sure you'll remember 2012 and January 2013 when the accident tax was introduced. I am only mentioning this because, in the case of compulsory car liability insurance, the accident tax meant a 30% increase in items and, if I remember correctly, a 15% increase in items at Casco. Not to go out of this thought yarn, it should be added that it also caused a 10% increase in housing insurance, if I remember correctly. I just wanted to say that this obviously means more to the man driving the car at a cost. After all, this insurance fee, once again, was 83 forints a day, and for this reason it could reach a maximum of 30,000 or a few hundred forints per 366 days. But this was all included as an additional cost for compulsory car liability insurance and for Casco, as I said, with the increase of 30% and 15% respectively. Returning closer to the draft law, what can be said in this respect, is that the expected processes of 2015 and 2016 draw an interesting trend. Between the end of 2014 and the present state of 2015 significant changes occurred. It was a tariff increase, an increase in prices, from 20 to 25 per cent projected at the beginning of a year, to the point where there was an average increase of approximately 40 per cent. At the beginning of the year, this was shown as an average of 20,000 forints, and by now we are there, at the height of November, that this can be seen as an average annual fee of 28 thousand forints. As regards the increase in fees, there are different views as to why this was developed. The Central European Mutual Insurance Association, KÖBE, stated, among other things, that the primary reason for this is that petrol is cheap or cheaper, and therefore there is more travel, more damage. With regard to trucks, it was said that, in a sense, there are driver shortages, and because of the lack of drivers, the result is again more damage due to inexperience. I have to say, in this regard, we have a rather interesting view. With regard to cheap petrol, I would like to point out that at the time the famous sentence of Péter Szijjártó can be recalled; the psychological limit, remember, the rate of 300 forints of petrol, is that if the government is unable to keep it below 300 forints or pursues an economic policy that results in it rising above 300, then perhaps the government should resign. Now, what we see in time is that if we look at petrol prices below 300 forints in 2009 and after 2009, they are much higher every year, the peak was perhaps in the spring of 2012 when the price of petrol hit 450 forints. But also now, in 2014 the average price is 413 HUF and in 2015 it is 363 HUF. I'm just saying these numbers to try to put the conclusion together, together, if possible, in this story. In Hungarian, from 2014 to 2015, there will be an average decrease of about 12 percent in petrol prices. At the same time, we are experiencing a 3-percent increase in petrol consumption. So if more petrol is consumed, more damage is done on the roads, resulting in a 40 percent increase in compulsory insurance. Because of these figures, this may not be fully supported. So, once again, to make it clear: price displacements from 14 to 15 bring about a 12 percent reduction in petrol prices, of course, this is far above the rate, by more than 20 percent, which would require the government's resignation in addition to Péter Szijjártó. In addition, there is a 3 per cent excess in petrol consumption and a 40 per cent increase in the cost of compulsory car liability insurance. As I said, the average fee was under HUF 20,000 at the beginning of the year, and now it's hitting HUF 28,000. It is also worth considering these contexts, and it is also worth considering what else, what other types of factors may lead to this increase in the rate. As far as I know, the Hungarian Car Club itself initiated the issue of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, and raised the need to amend the law. Within the framework of this suggestion, much has been formulated, including what I do not see now reflected in this bill; for example, to bring together the concept of economic total damage and its definition between compulsory motor liability insurance and those described in the Ptk. In a competitive sense, it may be possible to ask questions in the sense that, even after the damage has been caused, undertakings that are considered to be high on the part of the insurance companies, who perform the tasks, will be distinguished, and this distinction is in practice reflected in the application of entrepreneurship fees. This may not be a good thing, because innocent victims may also be in a situation where they have to take an unjustified excess of costs, in practice they have to account for losses. But with regard to the most important items, I would like to mention three things closely and directly in line with the draft law, and I would like to ask you to consider how these three things are being implemented. Insurance companies offering liability insurance, I am obviously talking about the period before the adoption of the draft law, and the more favourable offer concerning the conclusion of insurance for the new insurance period was given only to the new customers, and they have been made to them, as my fellow Member Balla mentioned. [[12.40]] In this sense, therefore, old customers were able to contract and conclude contracts on worse terms than new ones. It is precisely the thinking and logic that has been mentioned that loyalty, I mean, if I am there somewhere in its process and progress in time, I find that the comings, the new entrants, can come in under more favourable conditions, while I can assure my loyalty to the later ones on less favourable terms, this creates a clear contradiction and brings me to life, in this sense the logic of the bill is that it needs to be changed, I think it is okay. What I say a little questioningly is that what we are doing now through the draft law is about reversing this logic, so in Hungarian it is the inverse, or it is not the inverse of it in Hungarian. Now, however, the kind of situation is that for those with the largest customer base, this can be seen as a positive proposal, since customers are not lost, and on the market operators who can be caught as a so-called smaller insurance company are not very able to obtain a new customer, which is why the benefits that have been granted to the new customer can no longer be obtained. My question is, in fact, whether it would make sense to make progress in this regard by relying on the principle of the highest benefit. Obviously, I mean that if any of the insurance companies gives the new customer a discount, then that discount must also be given to the old customer in a mandatory manner. So it would apply the kind of logic that virtually gives both the new and the old customers the possibility of positive access. I do not read this directly from the draft law, I read that we are going to reverse the story in Hungarian, now the possibility of offering more favourable offers is not given to the new customers, but the old customers are getting these discounts because of loyalty, but I do not read that the new client can also receive any discounts, which should automatically apply to the old customer. If that's the case, or you can squeeze it into the logic of the bill that I'm talking about, then I think it's a good thing, but I'll tell you again, I'm not going to read this from this brief bill, from its general and detailed justification. So I think that this story should be made clear so that the principle of maximum benefit can be applied, i.e. once again, that if the insurance company offers any benefits to new customers, it should automatically be binding on the old customers. This would create a situation where anyone who wants to get a new client and give him a discount must take on the burden of automatically providing this to old customers, but could still build a new customer base, and we could eliminate the kind of dissonance and contradiction that was in the previous period, i.e. that the better offer could only be provided to new customers. To conclude, I would like to mention once again, in relation to the issues of market distortion, that if we just reverse today's situation, it will obviously provide a positive opportunity, a positive offer, as they will not lose their customer base, because they will not leave them, but on the other hand smaller insurance companies, i.e. those with smaller numbers, will be more difficult to target and catch up with a new customer base. That is why it should or would be necessary to ensure the principle of the highest benefit, and perhaps by doing so it would also be possible to ensure that fairness and economic competition can be more closely linked and effectively developed. I would like to extend these thoughts to the rapporteur with great respect, and to ensure that this logic can prevail. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-39	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-11-17-40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amending proposal before us seeks a solution to one of the very important long-standing problems in the insurance market. The question concerns many people, and the issue is current, as about 2 million of the 4.5 million car owners in Hungary are entitled to change their car liability insurance at the end of the year, and some 250 000 of them are expected to conclude new contracts. According to experts, some of the clients terminate the current contract and renegotiate it at the same insurance company only because of the more favourable fee. The other half of the owners will be able to resume compulsory insurance for vehicles purchased after 2010. It is typical that 15 companies offering this type of insurance can adjust their fees several times during the course of the year, adjusting to the amount of claims made at the time. For the reasons set out above, it was necessary to settle as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Insurance premiums fell sharply after 2008 and this trend turned around, and this year an additional price increase is expected. According to experts, the aim of car drivers changing insurance is, of course, to reduce the rate increase this year as well. This can be achieved primarily through non-damage management or by the conclusion of simultaneous casco or housing insurance, which, of course, raises the prohibition of prohibited contracts where appropriate, closing parentheses, but insurance companies also provide a discount for the lump sum payment of the annual fee, as well as for the transfer of funds or electronic communications from banks. With the combined application of the discounts, a fee discount of up to 40-50 percent is available. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the amending proposal before us, existing customers in the motor vehicle liability insurance market cannot be placed in a more favourable position than new customers. This may contribute to the long-term planning of the segment, as market competition should not lead to a disadvantage for customers who have been loyal to the service for several years. It is important to point out that the Hungarian National Bank continuously monitors companies operating on the market from a consumer point of view, including the development of tariff tariffs, on the basis of a specific database. Ladies and gentlemen, We should highlight and confirm in this place that the assessment of the activities of insurance companies in Hungary is positive. According to a spring study, the members of society have consistently expressed positive views on insurance companies and institutional confidence in insurance companies in the financial sector is the strongest. [[12.50]] This assessment could be further improved by the bill before us, since the reward of faithful customers is not only in the primary interest of insurance companies, but also the evident expectation of insured persons. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-17-41	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I will ask the Group of Jobbik and LMP if anyone would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'm sure they'll give us their opinion later. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak, but there is no independent representative in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, I don't see an application for a two-minute speech. No other representatives made themselves known. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what he has said or to give his opinion. [[György Balla: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman György Balla.
u2015-11-17-42	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I thank the Christian Democratic People's Party for their support, and I thank the Hungarian Socialist Party, because if I understood Mr Gúr's words correctly, they basically assured me of their support for this proposal. [[Nándor Gúr: That's right!]] However, I would like to address the Member's point, because I believe that if we discuss this, their support will be even stronger. Because the proposal is exactly what you are saying, except, of course, that we talked a little bit about the petrol price, but of course I understand that this had to be said as an opposition, although the petrol price is now falling, but there is no problem with that. The proposal itself, if I understand correctly, is about not reversing the current situation - the current situation is that old customers are being deceived and new customers pay better than old customers - but also allowing both old and new customers to receive a discount. Well, here's the thing. I don't think anyone's got a discount so far. Insurance companies have announced their prices. The one who signed a contract at that price was his contract. If someone didn't make a contract at that price, but continued the old one, they paid more. It was basic practice. Our current proposal is that it can't be done, one thing has a price. That insurance company has a price for that car, a fee proposal. In this, you can also give discounts to old customers, if you wish to keep your customers. So the discount is now displayed. So here's the price, you give the discount to your old customers, and if you want to give the same discount to your new customers, that means you'll lower your fee and you'll already give this discount to both your old and new customers. In this way, it participates in a market competition where old and new customers are not fighting each other, but insurance companies are trying to create a situation in which they can obtain customers and keep customers with their cheaper offers and better services. If that's how it works, it's good for people; because the market can basically be useful. If it works the way it still works before this proposal, it is bad because it is simply about being deceived. We know that maybe half of the insurance companies used this practice, a little over half of it, and there are 4 million mandatory car liability insurance, there's a little more than that, around 4 million 300 thousand, if I remember correctly. About 200,000 re-installed their insurance. We also know that this is not because people are enemies of themselves, by the way, but because insurance companies have applied for the good faith of people, and that, while a contract is very, very easy to conclude with a particular company, it is very, very complicated to terminate. In English, a significant part of the people didn't accept that, which means sending out an offer letter, going after it, counting it, and the rest, the insurance companies abused it, and I say again, they deceived people with this. Not from here on out. However, if you want to give discounts to your old and new customers, this is the simplest thing in the world again, what you have to do is lower their prices and everything is fine. So what the congressman asked for is in the proposal. I would very much like it if everyone in Parliament could really support this proposal during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-17-43	Thank you, Congressman György Balla. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/7399. on a serial number available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-17-44	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XX The stormy historical events of the 20th century have made it clear to all European countries that they need to protect and preserve their national cultural heritage in fear. The first provision for the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member States in 1993 in the European Union is Council Directive 93/7/EEC. The aim of the directive on the protection of the cultural heritage of Member States is to allow Member States to return to their territory the cultural goods which have been exported to another Member State in breach of the laws of the Member States on the protection of cultural objects or of Council Regulation (EC) No 116/2009 on the export of cultural goods. The reason for the amendment is Directive 2014/60/EU on the return of cultural goods unlawfully exported from the territory of the Member States and amending Regulation (EU) No 1075/2013, adopted by the European Parliament and the Council, which was granted a deadline of 18 December 2015 for transposition into national law and entry into force of that amendment. The Prime Minister's Office is now complying with this obligation of harmonisation of legislation by LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods. by amending the law. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The amendment of the law aims primarily to amend the legislation in force in accordance with the provision of the new directive and, secondly, to replace the very important procedural provisions which have so far been missing from the legislation. In particular, the Hungarian legislation has so far not regulated the case where Hungary, as the requesting Member State, seeks to enforce its claim to return a protected object belonging to our national treasures to another Member State. This also requires a structural amendment of the law by adding a new title to the need for return to Hungary. The new provisions of the Directive include that, contrary to previous legislation, protected cultural goods do not have to fall within a specific category and do not have to comply with the limit values for age and/or value in order to be subject to return. An important element of the new regulation is the internationally known due diligence and diligence criterion, which requires operators to demonstrate that they have acted carefully and carefully in acquiring an object of cultural property. For example, he obtained documents relating to the origin of the object or looked into the accessible register of the stolen cultural goods. It is only on this basis that they will be able to deal with a possible claim for compensation later. [[13.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is a new element of the directive that, as of 18 December 2015, in order to reduce illegal trade in works of art, which, by the way, is particularly detrimental to us, since a large number of works of art are being smuggled illegally from the country, the administrative cooperation of the central authorities of the Member States with regard to the internal market information system - this so-called IMI system - is facilitated by a module specifically developed for cultural goods. With the help of this system, the central authorities responsible for cultural goods may provide up-to-date information on protected objects exported from the territory of the Member States or use it to disseminate relevant information relating to cases involving objects stolen or unlawfully exported from their territory. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of Hungary's membership of the EU, it carries out the tasks of harmonisation which oblige all Member States to comply with the law of the European Union. In addition, however, we have a particular responsibility to ensure the safe return of outstanding and irreplaceable protected artifacts to our country. In the spirit of all this, I urge my fellow Members to support the proposal before you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Here are the keynote speeches. First, I give the floor to Victor Vinnai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what the rapporteur said, who presented in detail the new features of the amendment. But, of course, I agree with the new directive and the strengthening of the internal coherence of the legislation, and, as we have heard, there will also be conceptual and text-pointing. But most of all, I agree with what Mr Secretary of State said that our national cultural heritage must be protected and nurtured, and that is what this amendment of the law is about. But allow me to add some thought to what has been said about the virtues I see of this amendment to the legislation containing 12 paragraphs. Cooperation at international level has a particular role to play in finding and recovering illegally exported cultural goods. That is why I attach great importance to the fact that cooperation aimed at improving the effectiveness of the work in this field was not formulated in bilateral agreements, but in EU directives, because they promote coordination within the Union, the transparency of procedures in each Member State. For a people, material cultural values are as important as their intellectual assets, literary, musical values, or scientific achievements. The recognition that every nation has the right to its own cultural assets is an important identity-enhancing moment. For the French, Verlaine, Rimbaud, Renoir or Rodin are as important as Attila József or as important as Strobl Csontváry. Therefore, the abduction and abduction of cultural values has always been and will remain a personal matter. Citizens value it as their own loot if, for example, a valuable piece of museum is stolen by art thieves. We have to add: once true cultural values are our universal treasure, they are the ones that can connect nations, we all feel poorer if they are damaged and destroyed by criminal or vandals for private purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, In this regard, the findings of Nobel laureate Austrian ethnologist Konrad Lorenz, who published in 2004 a book on the results of his work on animal aggression testing, may be particularly topical today, and in the final summary of this book he also addressed human lessons. It also stated that art is the only one, especially if it operates by means above languages, which can bridge gaps between peoples and nations, and promote understanding among themselves. Therefore, it is important that art is not committed to anything other than values and this previously outlined role of bridge. In support of his view, he referred back to enemies among the trenches in the ceasefires who understood each other through common cultural codes over languages. Obviously, theft of art, their illegal trade, their private expropriation, is an assassination against this important role of art. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us conclude by saying that, as we have heard from the rapporteur, it is important, on the basis of these deeper human community considerations, that the provisions to curb illegal trade are included in the legislation by amending the law and that, as we have heard from the rapporteur, the time limit for determining the object found in another Member State is 6 months that it is an object of cultural property and that the period for initiating the return procedure is extended. The amendment regulates issues relating to the cultural goods to be returned to Hungary, clarifies the cooperation and tasks related to the return of cultural goods. Dear House, I trust that by amending the legislation, cultural goods will be more effective in the EU community, that they will be returned more quickly and that it will be difficult to possess illegally stolen and acquired goods. We support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Kiss, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-17-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal becomes necessary due to the transposition of Directive 2014/60/EU. If we look at what this directive contains, we can see that it contains an article on the legal concept of due diligence and caution, which is merely about the fact that anyone can receive compensation for the illegal art that he has purchased if he has done so with due care and caution as is justified. I don't think this direction is from the devil. It is very right that this formulation, this formula, has been included in European legislation, and so in Hungarian legislation within the framework of legislative harmonisation. Obviously, it is not possible to support illegal art dealers who later, when they are arrested, refer to the fact that of course, of course, they bought this by accident, and although, by the way, they have 60 years of professional qualifications, they accidentally missed this particular art. In the past, one year was the period which could be invoked at the time of the initiation of the proceeding. Now they're pushing this for three years. In itself, I think that this is an facilitation that can also be supported, although we should not forget that it is an obligation for all the states and all the EU Member States, that, in the event that he perceives that a piece of art has been stolen or taken abroad, which is his property, he should act immediately. I myself believe that this is an important obligation for all the states and all the Member States, but it is not from the devil, if this facilitation is granted. It is very right, and I think that it is also natural to talk within the framework of EU legislation about the need for a coordinated functioning of the Union's institutional system, the Union's institutional system, to ensure a more effective response to illegal trade in art. I therefore support the transposition of this, both in the directive and in the harmonisation of legislation, because if the Union community makes sense, it is certainly to coordinate each other's activities together, to order us to stop the processes which, in this case, are becoming increasingly common. If you go to the Pergamon Museum or the British Museum, you know what the XIX was like. In the century, illegal art theft. I must say that we are living in the age of new barbarism today, the 21st century. In the middle of the century, when buildings and sculptures can be blown up in the Middle East, then they are sold piece by piece, and when people are otherwise soulless, but unfortunately culturally competent, seeing a huge deal of this, Hungary, too, carry significant treasures around the world. [[13.10]] Therefore, there is a great place for the Hungarian Government to carry out this harmonisation procedure, and therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-17-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDP, please.
u2015-11-17-50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The return of cultural goods is a cross-border issue and is subject to common rules, as the problem must be addressed at EU level. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: This Directive is in the interest of all EU citizens and greatly strengthens the protection of Member States' cultural heritage, including the representation of local and regional communities, churches, Member States and the EU as a whole. The European experience of illegal trade in works of art in Member States' cultural heritage in recent years has not been effective enough, which is why the revision of the relevant legislation has become urgent in achieving the return of certain national treasures. Ladies and gentlemen, The internal market of the European Union is an area without borders in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is adequately ensured, reserved for the application of prohibitions and restrictions on imports, exports and transit goods, where justified for the protection of national treasures representing artistic, historical or archaeological values. Previously, 93/7. The purpose of the Directive was to ensure the physical return of cultural goods to the Member State from whose territory it was unlawfully removed. The Directive also established administrative cooperation in the search for stolen works of art with Interpol and other competent bodies, which included the registration of stolen or illegally exported cultural goods. This cooperation should be further strengthened for the use of the internal market information system operated by the European Commission, which is a special electronic contact system. As of December 2015, the IMI system will also allow authorities to exchange information on illegally exported cultural goods. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, I would like to highlight two important points regarding the amendment of the law. One is the issue of due diligence, because it is important for all players in the market to act with due care and care in the course of transactions involving cultural goods. The only real deterrent to illegal trade can be that owners must prove, as a condition of compensation, that they themselves acted carefully and carefully. The other important issue is the respectability and inability to comply with the prescribed deadlines. Experience has shown that, in practice, time limits are too short, which are available to verify that the object found in another Member State is 93/7. whether or not it is a cultural object within the meaning of this Directive. This deadline should therefore be extended to 6 months, which will make it easier to prevent, for example, an attempt to withdraw objects from the return procedure. The period for initiating the return procedure should also be extended to 3 years, thereby supporting the successful conduct of the procedure and increasing the deterrent force and prevention. On this basis, I ask that you support the 2001 LXXX on the return of illegally exported cultural goods. T/7399. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-51	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, please welcome the students and teachers of Mohácsi Kisfaludy Károly High School and Madách Imre High School in Salgótarján. I'm glad you're here. Congresswoman Loránt Violin, Jobbik, please.
u2015-11-17-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to point out that the Jobbik faction will also vote in favour of this proposal, because we also believe that, in addition to protecting our cultural assets, it is very important to reduce the black market that feeds on illegal trade, and we believe that this amendment, which is now before us, serves both of the two purposes, very rightly and very well. However, I have questions in this regard, which I hope the Secretary of State will be able to answer in substance. First of all, we welcome and support the technical clarifications, definitions contained in the law and the steps taken towards harmonisation of legislation itself. We are particularly in favour of the creation of the new information system. In relation to the compensation of holders, my question was whether, from a codification point of view and from a legal point of view, it is worth describing in detail in two different places what the procedure for the compensation of the holder is, since this is included in the legislation in a separate procedure, and also in respect of the assets derived back to Hungary in a precise and repeated manner. We also support the fact that the launch of the return procedure will increase from 1 to 3 years from the point of view of learning, which is a very important step. The government will appoint in its decision or regulation the so-called central authority that will act as a cultural heritage authority on this issue. I couldn't help but notice what I'm going to say here, that it was a central authority with a national role, the KöH, which was terminated by the previous Orbán government in 2010-14. If such a national body existed for the protection of cultural heritage, there would not be a need for such an additional designation and not some kind of county-level organisation; I do not know exactly who the government is thinking of, please help the Secretary of State to clarify this for us. In relation to the return to Hungary, the law details the procedure for this procedure for a long time. On this point, I would like to ask that it will be for the central authority to obtain, on the one hand, the evidence relating to illegal exports, the quality of the national treasure, and the rest, and the rest, and this must be presented. I ask who has to present it, because it is not clear from the context whether the requested state, its central authority or any other organisation here should show it. Maybe it's just a bad one, or what do you want me to say? - less precise wording, but if the Secretary of State could help me with that, I'd appreciate it. As with the registration and the request by the competent authority, paragraph 2 (c) and paragraph 3 mean the same as in our interpretation, only one of them is a little more precise. I'd like to ask you what the... [[L. Simon László: Which paragraph?]] Paragraph 3 (c) and paragraph 3 shall mean the same in our interpretation, but only one of them shall be a little more precise. I would ask what the... (L. Simon László: Which paragraph?) In relation to paragraph 2 (c) and paragraph 3 (i.e. the return to Hungary, paragraph 2 (c) and paragraph 3 (b), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (b), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (b), paragraph 3 (b), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 2 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 3 (c), paragraph 2 (i), paragraph 2 (i) and the registration system (i) of the register. [[13.20]] Overall, I must say once again that we are in favour of the bill itself, and we believe that this is a major step forward on the issue of protecting our cultural assets. I must now ask the Secretary of State, since this has already come before the House; we know that some of the Seuso treasures were returned to Hungary shortly before the elections in 2014. We would be happy to see other beautiful elements of this treasure return to Hungary. We also know that these treasures were not returned to Hungary in connection with this procedure before the 2014 elections. Perhaps if you could inform us now, Mr Secretary of State, a long time after the events, exactly what happened and how it happened, because certain interesting circumstances have been raised in connection with it. The only thing that appeared in the press was that the head of the TEK brought these treasures home in a car, going out to England one day, and coming back the next day. This certainly could not have been done on the basis of these procedures. The other is that if, and if, on 18 December, these laws will enter into force, and I think that the Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian central authority, which will be designated by the government, will be able to fight for Hungarian cultural goods in a more muscular manner, then do so by now that the black market that is flourishing around the Constitutional Protection Office - which is not so far from the building of Parliament next to us, and we know that it would be worth implementing certain official procedures in this area - will also be checked and looked at exactly what is happening there and how. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-53	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has come forward on behalf of the government. I would like to ask you to understand that, since I do not see any more candidates yet, I would like to ask the members of the Parliament if they would like to say if there are any more candidates. [[No signal.]] As I do not see this, the general debate is closed and I will give the floor to the Secretary of State to respond and give his opinion. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-54	Thank you very much. Mr President, You make it so difficult for me that I asked for the floor because I wanted to respond to the questions of the Member in the debate, in case there were any further questions about my answers. This is always opposed by the opposition to the fact that the government only reacts in the closet, and from now on there is no way to respond in return. But since Mr President has taken this opportunity - without judging the President - away from me, I am forced to close.
u2015-11-17-55	Don't do that. Don't do that. Follow the house rules and feel free to answer the questions.
u2015-11-17-56	Thank you very much, Mr President, no, no, God forbid, I am saying that I am not criticizing the President, because someone else is yelling at me not to criticize the Member or the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for the speeches in the main speaker's round. If I understand correctly, everyone except for a faction supports the presentation, this is the only faction of LMP, which did not honor us on such an important issue. I think that this is a small and short law, but it is important in two ways. On the one hand, we are fulfilling an obligation to harmonise EU legislation and, on the other hand, as my fellow Members have highlighted here from the opposition side, it is a matter which is of crucial importance for national identity and national culture. Since, by the way, I only received questions from the Jobbik faction, I would not comment on the other people's speeches, because, if I took it right, everyone supports the presentation in this form, and even Jobbik supports the presentation in this form, but has drawn attention to a few little things. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs President that you do not have to worry, this misunderstanding has already occurred between the two of us during the amendment of the 2001 Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, when we discussed the Cultural Heritage Office and its status and its change, since the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre is the successor of the Cultural Heritage Protection Office in all respects by the establishment of this office between 2010 and 2014, during the second Orbán government, and then, in 2014, when we unified the heritage protection tasks within the Prime Minister's Office, and entrusted the Forster Centre with additional tasks, the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre, in fact, we created the central office of the unified institutionalised heritage protection, which, in addition, is the National Providence of Monuments, the Cultural Heritage Office and in part, the Lechner Lajos Knowledge Centre. The Forster Center has only previously been removed from tasks that have been assigned to the county government offices as an official task, so there is, for example, the first stage of the historic authorisation procedure, but of course, what is becoming a monument, what will not be a monument later, it will be decided at the Prime Minister's Office and the Forster Centre, and it will continue to carry out the most important tasks as a central office, including the official tasks related to the protection of art objects, see the preservation of artworks, the management of export licenses and the management of restoration cases both within and outside the European Union, in relation to the management of the property of former Hungarian families. So I would just like to say to the Congresswoman that I think you have nothing to worry about, that the Foster Centre is doing this very well and precisely. In my view, if nothing else, the debate over the Munkácsy images in recent months has pointed out that the state is effectively protecting artifacts that are important for national culture, in line with international conventions, and is also cooperating on this issue with all European Union countries, Member States and, if there is an illegal act, with the Hungarian authorities and foreign authorities as well. If my fellow Members recall the debate on the last amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we also talked about the fact that the state is trying to protect Hungarian artifacts as effectively as possible by many other means. Only some of these are registered artifacts, which we know can be found in private owners, churches, municipalities, the state or one of their institutions, because in many cases concerning illegal artifact trade, we have to face the fact that we can actually talk about the introduction into and export of stolen and stolen artifacts from the country, which are the legitimate property of the state. This is what we acted against when, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, and otherwise based on very effective central and police cooperation, we tightened the use of metal-seeking devices. You may remember, Congresswoman, that we have also Polemized this issue with each other here. This, by the way, brings a lot of results, and thanks to God, illegal art trade is in decline. This brings us to the question that the Member has asked regarding the Seuso treasures. I would like to make it clear that the case of the Seuso treasures does not fall within this area, even if it is an important and truly exciting issue, the history of export and the partial return of the entire treasure itself. But what I would like to say is that the fundamental question here is whether Hungary can prove that this extremely valuable archaeological collection of Roman archaeological artifacts was taken from the territory of Hungary, which is the basis of the dispute. According to the current Hungarian legislation and the existing agreements since 93, this artifact complex is not protected by Hungarian artifacts, and what we have already acquired, I would say that we have recovered - legally it is complicated here, so I would say with caution - in this case, the legal protection of the artifacts owned by the Hungarian State is expressly justified. But the rest of it, not in the Hungarian state, and I do not use the word property here, but I say that we have not yet been able to bring back the part of the artifact which is not in the possession of the Hungarian state, and here the question, representative, is whether Hungary can prove by scientific studies, documentation, archaeological materials that the artifact found otherwise in Hungary... - that is, it was illegally removed from the country at some point in the years of socialism. Here is the scientific work, Congresswoman, of the artifacts brought back - which we have brought back - the scientific examination has been ongoing since the closure of the exhibition in Székesfehérvár, as far as I know. [[13.30]] We hope that, thanks to scientific progress and technological progress over the past decades, we will be able to obtain new, conclusive information, and that will be decisive for other works of art. But the Convention 93 itself, and the current amendment of the law and our law on the protection of the heritage in force, are not enough in itself to bring these artifacts back, because, once again, the question is whether this has actually come from Hungary, and whether we can prove it to be credible. This amendment is basically intended to ensure that in the event that there is a Hungarian artifact, which can be proven to be Hungarian owned or owned, and was illegally removed from the country, for example, they did not ask for an export licence, they were removed from the country, and there they wanted it for auction at one of the large auction houses, it could be returned without any problems. According to the previous agreement, it wasn't that simple. For example, here is the painting by Farkas Köpp, who lived between 1738 and 1807, the allegory of the August month, which was a protected artifact that was exported from the country, auctioned in Vienna, and finally managed to get back to Hungary by buying it, by a Hungarian citizen who brought it home, announced it at home, and was able to exercise the Hungarian state's pre-emptive right. Now that this is not the case in the future, let it be that when our experts... By the way, this works very well, for example, at Hungarian auctions, for example, stolen artifacts are immediately spotted by Forster Centre employees and removed from the auction, because all auction catalogues are reviewed and all exhibitions are reviewed by our employees. So, to take a foreign example, if, say, someone illegally takes a protected artifact out of the country, they want it to be auctioned away, the moment we signal this to the auction house or to the authority of the country in which the auction is going to take it off the auction and give it back, we don't have to use this kind of trick to go out, buy it, and actually buy back what is ours. Of course, they take these artifacts out of the country because they expect to receive more at the auction there than at a domestic auction; this is not necessarily true. Even now, the Hungarian State has bought many valuable artifacts in recent years, not necessarily by exercising its pre-emptive right, but simply considered it so important that it was included in the public collection that either itself took part in a bidding - this must be done if an artifact is not protected; if an artifact is protected, it does not have to do it, but only use its pre-emptive right - or buy an artifact as part of a separate deal. I could give you a number of positive examples. I would recommend to you that you go to the Várbazár, see the small chamber exhibition about the preparation of the reconstruction works of the Buda Castle. There you will see a very beautiful picture of Zsolnay Cheramia IV. Béla, which was made for the St. Stephen's Hall, and was partly destroyed after the war, was stolen, and partly unknown where the artifacts are; we managed to purchase this artifact in order to prepare for future reconstruction works and take it into Hungarian state ownership. So I hope that from this point of view, my answer is reassuring and that the process itself is understandable. So it will be much easier to bring back valuable artifacts that have been illegally removed from the country to Hungary after the adoption of this bill. [[András Tállai presents a sheet of paper to L. Simon László.]] In the meantime, Congressman Tallai tells me to stop, but... [[Defiance.]]
u2015-11-17-57	They'll take care of this within a faction. This House has nothing to do with it.
u2015-11-17-58	Thank you very much. I'm sure Secretary of State is in a hurry with his item on the agenda. [[András Tállai: Four for me, four for me! Defiance. György Szilágyi applauds.]] However, I will just go through with it, and I would be honoured by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, to reply to your suggestion, if you have taken this proposal seriously. I will tell you frankly, Congresswoman, and that is why I asked for a proper speech, which Mr President did not give me a way to understand exactly what he was referring to, where he read the same thing in two places. I looked up that paragraph quickly, and it wasn't clear to me. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: We will discuss this, Mr. Secretary of State.]] I thought it was okay, but I'd be happy to help the congresswoman. I think that there is no conflict of coherence in this regard in the legislation, but if the Congresswoman sees it, I would ask you to do this with an amendment, we are open to her inclusion. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your activity in the debate and ask you to support the bill before us with your vote. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-17-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an intergovernmental agreement on the Single Resolution System will follow until closure. The government referral is T/7393. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In response to the financial crisis, the European Union has strengthened the stability of the financial sector by strengthening banking supervision and adopting resolution rules, which our country has transposed into the legislation by the deadline. At the same time, for the stability of the euro area, the Banking Union has been set up as a further step, under which the Single Supervisory System and the Single Resolution System have been established with the participation of the euro area Member States. In addition to the Single Resolution Authority, the European Union has also decided to establish a Single Resolution Fund in its Single Resolution System Regulation. The 26 Member States of the European Union signed an intergovernmental agreement on the uploading and functioning of the Single Resolution Fund in May 2014. Non-euro area Member States were involved in negotiating and signing the euro area binding agreement. Only the United Kingdom and Sweden have not signed the agreement. Dear Parliament, The establishment of a single resolution system is one of the most important responses to the financial crisis in order to bring about the resolution and viability of credit institutions that may face financial difficulties, not from budgetary funds, but mainly from the contributions of investors and large depositors and, in the event of their failure, from the pre-filled financial fund by Member States' credit institutions. The agreement must create the legal conditions for financing the orderly settlement or liquidation of banks from banks in individual banking EU Member States at European level, either by their own banks or by banks in another country. During an eight-year transitional period, the national funds will gradually increase their contribution to the Single Resolution Fund, which will become a fully-fledged instrument at Community level at the end of the period. The basic objective of the scheme is to eliminate the heavy burden on national budgets in individual Member States, the increase in public debt, in the event of banks being in trouble. Ultimately, the aim is not to impose on taxpayers the burden of resolution of banks in the future. Dear House, I would like to make it clear that the agreement, which has been signed by the government, does not impose an obligation on Hungary, because we are not members of the euro area or the banking union. In Hungary, the national authority will continue to act on the basis of Hungarian legislation. Although the SRM is closely linked to the Banking Union, the signing and adoption of the agreement does not create an obligation to join the Banking Union. However, our accession to the agreement will allow us to follow up on further action in the banking Union. The establishment of an appropriate and equal level playing field is also essential for the further protection of Hungarian interests. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]] The Single Supervisory Mechanism for the Banking Union and the related Single Resolution Mechanism started operating in 2015, but the Single Resolution Fund is expected to be established only on 1 January 2016 if the euro area Member States ratify the agreement as planned by 30 November 2015. At present, ratification is progressing according to the planned timetable, which is expected to be achieved. [[13.40]] Of the non-euro area Member States, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic have already indicated that the agreement will be ratified again this year, sending a positive message of support from outside the process. The economic stability of the euro area is important not only for our country but also for our region. In order to formally signal the adoption of the international treaty on the agenda to the Council of the European Union, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in legislation. In view of the fact that the agreement concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, I ask you to support and accept the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. Before that, however, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the students and educators of the Cegléd Secondary School of Economics and Informatics and the Löövey Klára High School of Budapest. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. And now, Congressman Alpár Gyopáros, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With a single resolution system, we want to make the banking system safer and more stable, and therefore the House has already adopted a number of legislative proposals for harmonisation in recent times. The crisis in the banking sector, the forced recapitalisation and rescue of banks from public funds, and its effects on the sovereign debt of the euro area, and the interruption of this vicious circle between the risk assessment of banks, require new and effective preventive mechanisms and different financial resources, from which the direct involvement of sovereign states is left out. Unfortunately, in recent times, we have seen that irresponsible, speculative farming can lead to states, honest taxpayers and ordinary people paying the bills of unscrupulous, immoral and only bankers running after their own profits at the end of international financial games, because there was no alternative. Now, however, it is because the states have taken back control. This is why we can talk about the fact that the single resolution system is not only a formal international treaty, but also an important milestone, a significant process, because it is necessary to establish a strong, stable banking system. Hungary has supported this process from the beginning. The establishment of a single resolution system is one of the most important responses to the financial crisis in order to bring about the resolution and viability of credit institutions that may be in financial difficulty, not from budgetary funds, but mainly from the contributions of investors and large depositors and, in the event of their failure, from the pre-filled financial fund. The essential objective of the SRM is to eliminate the risk community of banks and Member States. While the Single Resolution System is closely linked to the Banking Union, the signing and adoption of the Agreement does not constitute an obligation to join the Banking Union. At the same time, our accession to the agreement allows us to monitor the actions of the banking Union, and this creates an appropriate and level playing field, and this is essential to protect Hungarian interests. At the same time, the single resolution system promotes the competitiveness of the financial sector and ensures the savings of the state and its citizens. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-63	Thank you very much. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head speaker of the MSZP, here you go.
u2015-11-17-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from the Secretary of State and the Chief Speaker of Fidesz here, a single resolution system is an important European institution, which, if it goes through the process, will provide sufficient assurance that if there are problems or signs of financial crisis in the world again, or even in the European Union, this fund can help to avoid the need for public funds to solve a certain banking crisis, not to migrate public funds to banks in order to prevent them from causing even more serious problems in the European Union's economy and financial world. It is very important to mention that this is a process that Hungary will not be fully part of, since it affects the euro area states most and the states in the Banking Union, but it gives us an opportunity to present this regulatory system already in the Hungarian legal system, and if we are to become members of the common European financial and banking system, then the Hungarian legislative environment is ready to be fully part of this system. It is also important to note that the design of the system will be complete if all Member States become involved, and this will be the full security. To date, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic of Member States outside the euro area have indicated that they will ratify the agreement this year. For all these reasons, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the proposal, because it creates the legal and financial conditions necessary to ensure that taxpayers' payments are not required in the future to resolve the economic situation of financial service providers. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-65	Thank you very much. Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2015-11-17-66	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The global financial crisis has highlighted the need for more precise and forward-looking regulation to address the situation of banks and other financial institutions that may be in distress, and the European Union has therefore developed a framework to address financial difficulties in a new way in response to the crisis. The bill provides for resolution rules for Hungarian financial institutions on the basis of the new EU directive. Resolution rules prevent the liquidation of an institution in distress from causing a prolonged spill-over crisis or a significant negative impact in the financial intermediary system. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/7393 on the publication of the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Single Resolution System. The aim of the proposal is, on the one hand, to establish an orderly resolution mechanism for banks close to bankruptcy, and, on the other hand, to ensure that this bank resolution imposes only a minimum burden on taxpayers and the real economy. The Single Resolution System covers both the euro area Member States and the banks of the EU countries that joined the Banking Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill designated the National Bank of Hungary as the resolution authority, and the central bank would also receive an appropriate asset system. The bill allows the MNB to prepare for its administrative tasks in sufficient depth and in good time, both for the preparation of resolution plans and for the launch of the winding-up of the resolution fund. Another important element of the bill is that it does not essentially use a budgetary instrument to ensure the continued viability and viability of the financial institution in difficulty. The bill also aims to ensure that small investments are not lost, i.e. deposits below EUR 100,000 are protected by the framework under all circumstances. Ladies and Gentlemen, The single resolution mechanism, which is an important element of the European Banking Union, consists of: (1) the single resolution body, i.e. the resolution authority at EU level; (2) a common resolution fund financed by the banking sector. Let us first look at the Single Resolution Board, which is the main decision-making body of the resolution mechanism and which decides on the resolution programme for failing banks. This body will be directly responsible for the planning and resolution phase for the cross-border and large banks belonging to the Banking Union which are directly supervised by the European Central Bank. [[13.50]] The Board shall be responsible for any resolution, irrespective of the size of the bank, to which the use of the SRM is required and shall be responsible at the highest level for all banks belonging to the Banking Union and shall exercise its powers at any time, in relation to any bank, accordingly. The Single Resolution Fund is a supranational fund. The Fund may be used for the resolution of banks close to bankruptcy after other options such as the recapitalisation of creditors has been exhausted. The funding of the resolution fund is based on contributions paid by the banking sector. The fund will be recapitalised in eight years. The fund should amount to at least 1 per cent of the amount of secured deposits with all credit institutions authorised in all Member States of the Banking Union, with a planned amount of approximately EUR 55 billion. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, it can be concluded that the single resolution system is one of the most significant financial responses to the financial crisis and its after-effects. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support T/7393 on the announcement of an intergovernmental agreement relating to the Single Resolution System. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-17-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Single Resolution Mechanism, the SRM and the Banking Union are the European Union's response to the economic and financial crisis. This is what the community is trying to do to prevent bank failures such as those we have seen in Spain or in Cyprus in recent years. The SRM is basically based on a good idea, since the fund would be filled with deposits from banks and financial institutions, and this would only be used if creditors and investors could not provide sufficient collateral to save that financial institution. This would eliminate the need for taxpayers' money to cover sovereign Member States or even the EU for these institutions. However, there may be a number of problems with this idea. On the one hand, the banks will be burdened with the fund, which they will have to manage somehow. It is feared that these costs will be charged to their customers, which would result in, in the end, in the same cost to taxpayers as before. It is therefore necessary for the State or even the European Union to act against it, to prevent it, to provide guarantees against it. Dear Parliament, Another question is whether the planned EUR 55 billion fund will be sufficient. There is no doubt that the current situation is that Europe, if very slowly, is coming out of the economic crisis, so it is not expected that more major financial institutions will fall at the same time. At the same time, no one had foreseen the crisis that had started in 2008, and this amount would not be sufficient to address a similar or even larger crisis, at least that is what many experts have come up with in the analysis of the single resolution system. Although this system itself is a good idea, it can be seen that this is just another step towards the entire banking union. In this connection, we, the good guys, have serious reservations, concerns. We are aware that there is no obligation to participate in this in non-eurozone Member States - this has also been emphasised by the government and emphasised by the pro-government keynote speakers - but it is clearly pointing towards further deepening, which is totally unacceptable to us. I would like to underline that polling data support the fact that two thirds of Hungarians refuse to further deepen integration, i.e. it can be said that the vast majority of Hungarian society is on the ground of the concept of Europe of nations against the idea of the European United States. For our part, we cannot forget that it is perfectly okay for the victims to be compensated in the event of a financial institution's bankruptcy, but there are always personnel responsible for the events, and we find the process that took place in Hungary, for example, in the Buda-Cash and Quaestor cases, to be very outrageous in this area. We believe that there should be a stricter supervision system and laws that would place greater responsibility on the heads and officials of banks and financial institutions. We have tabled our proposals in this regard over the past period, although I would add that we have already made proposals in this direction at the beginning of the previous parliamentary term. From the government side, ladies and gentlemen, we can always hear the argument about such negotiations that we must be there, we must sit at the table, because in this way we can only enforce our interests, and we have also heard that this convention is an important milestone. I believe that this is an important milestone towards the creation of the united states of Europe, and if we stand by it at this time, then we stand by the system with this attitude, that is to say, we accept that there will be a further deepening, and I do not rule out the possibility that, in the course of future negotiations, the processes can go counter to those represented by the government, and then it will be too late to express our oppositions and concerns about this, because it is true that this does not actually create an obligation now, but, for the future, looking back on similar proposals of the past years, I am quite pessimistic. I would like to refer here to what happened with the budget pact. There, too, we saw a double speech from the government side, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the pulpit that support for the British position could be considered - I would add that we could do this in this case too, since they would be left out - and then a month later, at the European Council's meeting, he supported the proposal. So these are our main fears, our most important concerns, which are why we cannot support the proposal itself, so that we cannot support the publication of the agreement on our part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since there is no independent Member in the Chamber and no one has applied for a two-minute speech, nor do I give the floor to Members who have asked for a normal word, first to Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-70	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If you look at the text or title of the law, this seems to be a very dry and very professional text, but as the authors have spoken about it, this can be a very significant step, a big decision or a mechanism for Hungary as well. After all, as many people have said in the lead-up, it is, in fact, that if there is another financial crisis in the world economy, in which banks are in a situation where they need capital, they should not replace this capital with the national budget, but find other mechanisms for this, whether it is this so-called a single resolution fund or the money of depositors and large investors, from which this recapitalisation must be carried out. This is important because, in the past, the socialist government of the time managed to reach an agreement, to establish a situation with the participants of the Hungarian banking system, which was about the fact that, during the crisis, the necessary capital had not to be paid out from Hungarian national budgetary sources into the banks operating on the Hungarian market, but that it had been put into these banks by the parent banks. In Hungarian, not affected by Hungarian budgetary resources. But if there is an EU mechanism for this, such a system depends not only on the ability of the government to negotiate, or on the will or will of the banks. Therefore, I think it is important that we are talking about this in a more serious debate here in the House, and I also think it is very important to emphasise that these issues are important steps for the benefit of Hungarian citizens, because it does not matter what we spend our Hungarian budget resources on, financing bad, wrong investments, financing wrong economic decisions, or other welfare or economic development issues. I also think it is important that there is an eight-year transitional period or that it does not adversely affect non-euro area members and does not disturb the expansion of the market, as this agreement states. [[14.00]] I think it's important here, and in this, as usual, I'd argue with Jobbik's representatives. We think that it is better to sit on the side of the table where decisions are made than on the other side, where decisions are merely to be taken into account. Therefore, we urge the Hungarian Government to do so actively in all cases where it is possible to intervene in decisions of the European Union, and always in the light of the Hungarian national interest, but to support solutions that are in the interest of Hungarian taxpayers. I think it's definitely such a proposal. For if there were no such proposal, and Hungary did not wish to be part of this international convention, which, if I remember it well, has 73 countries, which, for example, I would add, Cyprus - so that would perhaps be an argument for Jobbik to support, because Cyprus is a part of it here, too, which is known as the offshore paradise, then it would be important in any way to obtain support. The other thing that I think is important is that I think Jobbik has also spoken about it, and I think it is right to say that we have often experienced that different temporary or different bank taxes or other crisis taxes are simply passed on to taxpayers and clients by the banks. In any case, consumer protection rules or supervision activities, in order to put it this way, should be supported and strengthened so that this does not happen in this case, and it really should not be about the fact that, in the end, small customers pay for the fund instead of large investors and depositors. It would be one more thing I would like to suggest to you. What I have just said, and I would like to point this out to the good guys, that if there is such a crisis, the worst solution is surely that if this recapitalisation is to be carried out from the Hungarian budget, from the national budget. I think that the 55 billion-dollar fund is a sufficient amount of money to ensure that, if such a crisis is happening, if these funds are used quickly and effectively, they can indeed be given real help to these financial institutions and not to do so from the Hungarian national budget. In that case, it will remove these funds from a number of other budget lines for important social purposes. So I just wanted to draw the rapporteur's attention to these two or three aspects, and, as my associate Bertalan Tóth Deputy Group Leader has already said, the MSZP faction supports this proposal because it creates the legal and financial conditions necessary to ensure that the economic situation of financial service providers can be resolved with as little tax payments as possible in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-17-71	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech is possible. Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik, two minutes!
u2015-11-17-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of our fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, who criticized our attitude to say that we should take part in the negotiations differently. Maybe I didn't put it with the right accuracy, or I wasn't completely clear. I didn't say we shouldn't sit at the table and enforce our own interests as fully as possible. I thought, and I have expressed my position on many occasions, either at committee meetings or here in plenary, that it is very important that we also express our reservations on these occasions. I mean, what you're hearing from the government side is that it's not an obligation to us now. With regard to the proposal itself, as I said in my keynote speech, we are not critical either. We have concerns and fears about it, and we cannot support it because of what further steps will be taken, in which direction it will go. That is why I think that, whether in cooperation with the Visegrád Four or in finding other partners, I have mentioned the British example here, we should already state our firm position on the rejection of the entire Banking Union. After all, as prime ministers, we heard something like this earlier on the issue of economic governance, and then later we saw that the government did not act as it was supposed to. So cooperation between banking systems is, of course, necessary, but we say that integration can go too far if necessary, so at the negotiating table we would like to see Hungarian interests enforced by the government in this way, that is what we would like to experience. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-73	Thank you. We will now return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-11-17-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think, fellow Members, that everyone has the opportunity, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, I think he is right when he says that our reservations, some of our doubts about matters, must be expressed. Yes, I agree with him, it must be said, we need to think about the answers to these reservations and these doubts, which serve the interests of Hungary and the people living in Hungary. Obviously, what we are talking about is the history of intergovernmental measures relating to the single resolution system, not the banking union. However, it is clear to everyone that this is far from about that. There should be no confusion between things that are not to be confused and far apart. I just want to draw our mutual attention to the most important things. One is that this draft law, if I read it correctly and interpret it correctly, does nothing but eliminate the risk community of banks and Member States. It's, uh, I think it's okay. It is all right, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said and put it. This kind of community of risks is in Hungary's best interests and in the interests of the Hungarian people, if we do not talk about things in principle, but take into account specific situations, as if, for example, we are pairing them with a look back to the global economic and financial crisis in 2008. I think that the termination of the risk community and the fact that there is an eight-year preparatory period in one process, which is accompanied by the recapitalisation of the fund, can also be regarded as a good prevention period. This is a transitional period that does not cripple anyone, and, from the other side, through the 55 billion-dollar scale, it creates a financial basis that is comparable to Hungary's budget. In this sense, obviously, if there is a problem, if there is a problem, it gives you a significant opportunity to intervene. And perhaps the most important thing is that taking into account the current economic situation of financial service providers and resolving their economic problems should not be financed by the payment of taxpayers. In this sense, therefore, I can confirm with a calm spirit the position that Bertalan Tóth and Attila Mesterházy expressed earlier. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-17-75	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed, and I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to react. [[András Tállai: I do not wish.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted, and I will inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the publication of a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts will follow. The government referral is T/7390. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tallai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy. Here.
u2015-11-17-76	Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill aims to strengthen the international agreement enabling the automatic exchange of financial account information between the competent tax authorities as an international treaty and to transpose it into domestic law. [[14.10]] The aim of the bill is to strengthen the agreement as an international treaty and to name the countries with which Hungary intends to exchange financial account information automatically. A detailed framework for this agreement has been established by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, which has also developed a uniform international standard for the exchange of automatic tax information. In addition, on the basis of the OECD's activities, the Member States of the European Union have decided to put their tax cooperation on a new footing and to develop a directive on the same subject to implement the automatic exchange of financial account information. It should be pointed out that the agreement aims to reduce the risk of cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, given that this risk has increased enormously in recent years by expanding investment opportunities in a wide range of foreign financial products. The agreement will also reduce the possibility of concealing income from the tax authority. As a result of the automatic exchange of information, tax authorities automatically share information on financial accounts received from financial institutions. In this way, the tax authority can use effective means of combating tax evasion and tax evasion on the basis of account information provided by financial institutions and information received from foreign tax authorities. On the basis of the agreement before Parliament, the tax authorities of the signatory States and the Hungarian tax authority exchange information on the accounts of clients with jurisdiction in the partner State, registered in their territory, provided that both States have adequate safeguards, such as data protection and data security rules, and infrastructure for an effective exchange of information. Under this agreement, Hungary will establish an automatic exchange of financial account information with more than 40 countries other than the Member States of the European Union. The proposal contains a detailed list of States Parties to the Agreement with which Hungary intends to exchange information automatically, such as Canada, Australia, Mexico, Japan, New Zealand, but also a list of several States and jurisdictions previously referred to as tax havens, in which led account balances also become transparent. It is also worth mentioning that the number of States signing the agreement is increasing year by year, so that the list of countries included in the bill is expected to be extended in the near future. The agreement covers capital incomes and account balances, including accounts held by a wide range of financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, individuals and other entities such as businesses and foundations. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin takes over her notary seat.]] It is important to point out that the agreement will result in an increase in tax revenue by making the tax administration aware of its savings and investments in large amounts of bank accounts of Hungarian residents, which have so far been unknown to the tax authority. It should also be noted that the detailed rules for implementing the agreement were set out in Annex XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens submitted to the Parliament on 27 October 2015. It is included in a bill amending the Act, which, compared to the rules, does not impose a new obligation on market participants in the agreement contained in this bill. Dear Parliament, In order for the agreement on the agenda to become part of internal law as an international treaty, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the agreement concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Based on what has been said, I ask you to support and accept the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-77	Thank you very much. Here are the speeches by the lead speaker, Mr Parliament, Mr Alpár Gyopáros, the first, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2015-11-17-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is generally recognised that the strengthening of cooperation between authorities and the exchange of information on taxation are considered one of the most effective means of preventing international tax fraud and evasion. The exchange of information between tax authorities has been given particular attention on the international scene in the last decade, and in particular in the years following the economic crisis, which both the European Union, international organisations and individual Member States are focusing on. The exchange of information provides tax authorities with a means of enabling States to act more effectively against international tax evasion and helps States Parties to better enforce their own internal tax rules while respecting taxpayers' rights at the same time. The agreement is also important because an analysis commissioned by the European Commission shows that the amount of VAT avoided in Hungary has increased by HUF 500 billion in ten years since accession to the European Union, and that the agreement also contributes to ensuring that a crisis which has shaken the international economy does not happen again. The main objective of the agreement is to promote international tax compliance through mutual tax assistance based on an efficient infrastructure for automatic exchange of information, with the participation of 73 countries. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, to the fact that this is the agreement in which 73 countries are involved. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right.]] On the basis of the agreement, the automatic exchange of financial information shall take place in a procedure established between the competent authorities of the States Parties on the basis of a common standard on an annual basis. The model covers capital incomes, account balances and covers a wide range of financial institutions: banks, insurance companies, investment funds, as well as accounts held by individuals and other entities, businesses, foundations. The agreement shall include terms used for the automatic exchange of financial information, financial accounts subject to reporting requirements, time limits and means for the exchange of information. International cooperation is essential for the protection of Hungarian interests and promotes the international competitiveness of the financial sphere. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[András Tállai applauds.]]
u2015-11-17-79	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here.
u2015-11-17-80	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for the adjustment, it is indeed true what you said. I would like to start by saying that the MSZP faction supports this current proposal, since the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts serves in any way the national, but European Union or even economic interest that serves the most effective detection of fair market behaviour, tax avoidance or tax evasion. So in any case, we consider it important that this automatic exchange of information becomes a smooth and rapid part of Hungarian practice. I would just like to highlight one thing that the rapporteur and the Member have not said, perhaps which requires attention. This automatic exchange of information is effective if the States Parties or both States which exchange information have adequate safeguards and infrastructure for effective exchange of information. Therefore, it will be up to the author, the government, to make sure that this happens smoothly. We also think it is a positive thing that, in addition to the balance of accounts, capital incomes are covered by this agreement, and it affects not only banks but almost all financial undertakings, including insurance companies and investment services. And it is also to be welcomed that it differentiates between the accounts of individuals and organisations and that it further distributes these accounts in value. As you have said, 73 states are party to this treaty, and I therefore think that I should repeat once again at this item on the agenda that it is okay that Cyprus, also appearing as an offshore paradise, is also a part of this, because this has caused problems and headaches to the European Union several times in the past. So, overall, I would just like to add what I started by saying that the MSZP faction supports this proposal, because combating tax evasion and tax evasion must be in the interest of all political parties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-11-17-81	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. I'm gonna keep talking until he gets here to keep my attention, and he's gonna put his microphone on, and we're waiting for his refreshing comment. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-82	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/7390 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts and the publication of a multilateral agreement between competent authorities. Legislative bill No 1 aims to transpose into national law the international treaty allowing the automatic exchange of financial account information between the competent tax authorities. The main objective of the bill is to promote international tax compliance through mutual tax assistance based on an efficient infrastructure for automatic exchange of information. Under the agreement, the tax authorities of the Signatory States and the Hungarian tax authority shall automatically exchange information on the accounts of customers with domestic jurisdiction in the partner State, registered in their territory, provided that both States have adequate safeguards and infrastructure for the effective exchange of information. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is generally recognised that the strengthening of cooperation between authorities and the exchange of information on taxation are considered one of the most effective means of preventing international tax fraud and evasion. The exchange of information between tax authorities has been given particular attention on the international scene in the last decade and in particular in the years following the economic crisis, which has been highlighted by both the European Union and international organisations and individual nation states. The exchange of information gives the tax authorities a means to enable the State to act more effectively against international tax avoidance and to enable States Parties to better enforce their own internal tax rules while respecting the rights of taxpayers. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support T/7390 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts and the publication of a multilateral agreement between competent authorities. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-83	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-11-17-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts is to promote international tax compliance through mutual tax assistance based on an efficient infrastructure for automatic exchange of information. Under the agreement, the tax authorities of the Signatory States participating in the multilateral agreement and the Hungarian tax authority shall automatically exchange information on the accounts of customers resident in the partner country with financial and capital market participants established in their territory, provided that both States have adequate safeguards and infrastructure for the effective exchange of information. The exchange of information gives the tax authorities a tool that allows States to act more effectively against international tax avoidance and helps States Parties to better enforce their own internal tax rules while respecting taxpayers' rights at the same time. Maintaining this balance is absolutely important. The agreement shall implement the exchange of information on financial accounts on the basis of a timetable. The first transmission of information shall take place in September 2017 for a certain range of accounts, for which the procedures for identifying the accounts covered by the Agreement shall be established by 1 January 2016. On the basis of the agreement, the automatic exchange of financial information shall take place in a procedure established between the competent authorities of the States Parties on the basis of a common standard on an annual basis. The automatic exchange of financial information between the Parties shall take place under the Convention for the purpose of international tax compliance. It shall include the concepts used in the automatic exchange of financial information, financial accounts subject to reporting requirements, the deadline for the exchange of information and the manner in which it is to be exchanged. The model covers capital incomes and balance of accounts, including accounts held by a wide range of financial institutions, banks, insurance companies, investment funds and individuals and other entities, businesses and foundations. Tax avoidance is a serious problem at both international and Hungarian level, so all steps in this direction must be supported, as it is bad for the economy, the state and decent taxpayers alike. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, in the fight against tax evasion, we must also pay attention, as I have already pointed out, so that citizens and companies who pay decent taxes are not at a disadvantage. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the data sent is secure and that they are not misused. Of course, for our part, we have always supported agreements here in Parliament that have pointed in this direction, but it is important to note that among the countries with which Hungary intends to conclude such an agreement - 73 states - there are some that do not necessarily guarantee this kind of security. This should therefore be analysed. Here, we would like the government to pay particular attention to ensuring that the country has the right conditions for receiving, storing and using data. With these restrictions, the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary can support the proposal, thus publishing the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-85	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the room, no two-minute speeches, no written submissions. Mr Nándor Gúr, as a speaker requesting a normal word, is the subject of the floor, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-17-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There have always been, there are, and there will be those who try to avoid taxation. There are some who pay very little tax, and I do not wish to go into details here, too, Commissioner, who can say such things; those who, you know, will not be included in the circle of those who represent the high or good taxpayer circle. But you can do that by name. Perhaps this is not the point of the matter, but that what is within the framework of the draft law on mutual tax assistance in respect of international tax compliance can help to make this intention more restrictive. To a large extent, the availability of financial account information also provides for control. Within the framework of the draft law, the preparation of procedures is in practice taking place, as it will take the form of procedures by 1 January 2016 and, by mid-2017, by autumn, the period when the first step of sending the information takes place. Here, as my fellow Member Mesterházy mentioned, besides the balance of accounts, the draft law covers capital income, i.e. banks, insurance companies, but also financial corporations and investment service providers. As far as individuals are concerned, it is, if I remember correctly, a high-value account that is greater than a million dollars in value. I began by saying that some people - and they always will - do not want to pay taxes or pay very little taxes, and I give an example to support this. In the context of the results of the various research projects in Europe, it is stated that the rate of unpaid tax in Europe is 20 times the amount of Hungarian GDP and our financial resources, equivalent to EUR 2000 billion, i.e. some HUF 600 000 billion. [[14.30]] Imagine this magnitude, the Hungarian, not the budget, but the total amount of money we produce. If this money were to be paid in the form of a tax, then the Europe that can live its life relatively acceptablely compared to others would have room for manoeuvre and how much it could do to avoid questioning even better prosperity and balanced life. It is therefore necessary and therefore appropriate to take seriously any proposal to strengthen these processes, and it is not random that the Hungarian Socialist Party has a constructive attitude towards the adoption of the draft law in this respect. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[András Tállai says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CXXIV on national accreditation follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/6987. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-11-17-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the legislative amendment proposal before you is to build a new single accreditation system. In July 2015, the National Assembly adopted the National Accreditation Act, after which, in the light of the needs of the economic operators involved in accreditation, it was justified to amend the legislation. The amendment creates a more favourable, uniform, transparent system for accredited bodies, which regulates accreditation in a flexible, customer-friendly way. During the design of the regulation, there was room for manoeuvre in line with international requirements, and in view of this, the establishment of full compliance with the requirements of European accreditation cooperation has been given a key role. The practice of many other states has also been taken into account in the design of the new regulation. In some Member States, as a non-profit body in the United Kingdom, in Germany, a company owned by the State, the Provinces and the Industrial Interest Representative Association, Austria, an organisation operating within the Ministry of Industry, carries out national accreditation tasks. The new Hungarian legislation to be developed is similar to the Austrian and Slovak solutions, in which the substantive professional part of accreditation is carried out by experts independent of the authority on the basis of a mandate. The national accreditation body should be a member of so-called European accreditation cooperation and international mutual recognition agreements. In practice, this means that the test results and certificates of organisations accredited by the National Accreditation Board are currently recognised by the accreditation bodies and authorities of all countries who are members of international organisations and to which 98 percent of Hungarian exports are otherwise directed. It is therefore in the primary interest of the national economy that this institution of membership and mutual recognition be maintained after the termination of the NAT, the National Accreditation Board. As regards procedural guarantees, independence and qualification criteria, the new legislation does not differ substantially from the existing legislation, which is of particular importance for membership in the international organisation. Dear Parliament, The current National Accreditation Board in the form of a public body will be terminated, the tasks of which will be taken over from 1 January 2016 by the National Accreditation Authority in the form of a central budgetary body, to which the assets and personnel of the former accreditation body will be transferred, thus ensuring the functioning of the new organisation and the retention of accumulated expertise. The new accreditation body will operate more cost-effectively, transparently, flexibly and even more customer-friendlyly. Dear Parliament, As a result of the amendment of the law, the accreditation procedure does not change substantially compared to the previous regulation. The accreditation procedure will continue to be an evaluation and decision-making phase in accordance with international requirements. During the evaluation phase, an evaluation team of qualified persons and experts appointed as experts shall act, deliver an opinion on the documents submitted, identify any deficiencies and take part in an on-the-spot inspection. At the end of the evaluation phase, it shall provide the Authority with an assessment and an opinion on the accredited status. The Authority shall issue an order for the closure of the evaluation phase on the basis of the assessment team's advice. The members of the evaluation team shall be seconded from a database of experts currently managed by the NAT and received by the Authority in accordance with the accredited area. The procedure shall then enter into a decision-making phase where the Accreditation Committee, an independent body, examines the file drawn up by the evaluation team. The Accreditation Committee, composed of 23 members, shall be an expert body representing all areas accredited by the Authority. The Accreditation Committee shall draw up its opinion on the basis of the application and the file of the evaluation phase. The activities of the Accreditation Committee require specific expertise in specific fields, of a case-by-case nature, depending on the number of cases and the accredited area. Dear Parliament, The period of validity of the accredited status is extended from 4 to 5 years compared to the current legislation. The frequency of the supervisory review procedures necessary to maintain an accredited status shall be reduced from the current annual level, in such a way that the first review procedure shall be initiated within one year of the status of accredited and within a maximum of two years. This results in the need to renew the accredited status five times in the previous 20-year period, with 15 surveillance tests, four times the renewal of the accreditation status will be necessary if this proposal is adopted, with 8 surveillance tests. This means saving about HUF 10 million of procedural fees for a larger company over a 20-year period, while saving HUF 2 million for a smaller company. According to the current rules, the evaluation phase is 5 months, the decision-making phase is 20 days, which may be extended on the basis of an individual decision. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on the Rules of Administrative Procedure, the possibility of extending the procedural deadline will be terminated and the evaluation phase will be set at 100 days, while the procedural time limit for the decision-making phase will be set at 30 days. With the amendment, the unjustified delay in the administration will be terminated and the status of accredited will be obtained in a shorter procedure. I ask you to support and accept the proposal that has been tabled. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here are the keynote speeches. First, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The legislative proposal before us is a law adopted by the Parliament in June this year and published on 13th on the transformation of the national accreditation system. As stated here in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, the essence of this transformation was that the National Accreditation Board will cease to exist on 1 January 2016 and that, in essence, its tasks will be taken over by the state on the basis of a European model. [[14.40]] Perhaps you should allow us to say that since the change of regime, our country has regulated and operated the laboratory and technical accreditation system in line with the EU's expectations and European trends, but in recent years there have been a number of signs around the National Accreditation Board that have raised concerns from an entrepreneurial point of view. The panel worked bureaucraticly, slowly, and in many cases the General Assembly of the Board had inconclusive problems, the members did not show up because they were not too interested in the system, accreditation was unduly slow, it was delayed, and the entrepreneurial aspects, i.e. fast and efficient administration, were not typical. That is why we supported it and that is why it was necessary to reform NAT. We hope that, after the transformation, a more efficient system will be created instead of the present form and will serve the interests of entrepreneurs. Of course, given the fact that international standards primarily interpret accreditation as a public authority, it is appropriate, as set out in the bill, to use effective State aid or State aid for this activity. Within the framework of the newly created organisation, this administration can be made more effective for Hungarian entrepreneurs by reducing the duration of accreditation procedures, not least by reducing the procedural fees. This is important only because the government is determined to improve the competitiveness of businesses, reduce the burden on them and reduce the administrative burden. So these are the history. We are a few weeks ahead of the launch of the new organisation and, in essence, the amendment adopted earlier needs to be supplemented in some places, in a way that is essentially more favourable to businesses. As has been said here, the evaluation and procedural stages remain fundamentally unchanged, with a decisive change in the deadlines and the duration of the licences, which are likely to make accreditation more cost-effective for businesses. I think that all the amendments in the bill are intended to achieve an effective transition and to improve the effectiveness of the procedure itself. I think and I can propose this bill to this House for adoption and support by considering three aspects both at the beginning of this summer and the current amendment, and I think that together we can say that in the case of an accreditation organisation, the organisation must meet three important things: firstly, that it is able to demonstrate and exercise its independence in all circumstances, this is also important, since the suspicion should not arise that accreditation holders are capable of giving benefits or disadvantages to any market player; secondly, that there is compliance with EU standards, that international examples are taken in this direction; and thirdly, as an entrepreneur, I can also say that entrepreneurship is an increase in entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We are convinced that these amendments are in line with these three important aspects, and that is why we will support their adoption. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-91	Thank you very much. Congressman Árpád Velez, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us now, at least as described in the proposal, is to build a new, uniform national accreditation system, which is necessary to comply with European standards, European accreditation cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not true in this form. I am sorry, Mr Tallai, for having him read this text, but that is not what it says in this paper at all. What we have understood from this point of view is that it is shameful that the law adopted in the summer and, as far as the best of its provisions is concerned, has not yet been substantially transformed. In fact, in order to comply with European standards, it is necessary to redefine legislation that has been completely wrong. In connection with the initiative of the Summer Act, I asked the Parliament to raise its voice against the unthinkable bill at that time, and I also asked my fellow Members, the then nationalists, Kristóf Szatmáry and Péter Cseresnyés to withdraw their unthinkable bill and its proposal for damage to the national economy, in a quiet and silent manner, before making any more trouble. They didn't. This is what we are drinking at the moment when we are discussing this proposal. Kristóf Szatmáry and Péter Cseresnyés destroyed the Hungarian accreditation system. The text, which was created in the summer without any discussion, was already proven to be unfit for everything, so it must be carefully touched even now, a few months after its adoption and shortly before its entry into force on 1 January. In the view of the European Parliament and of the Council, only one national accreditation body may be established in a Member State and Member States should ensure that that body is organised in such a way that it is able to ensure the objective and impartial nature of its activities. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what has not been ensured. The independent NAT as a public body will be terminated on 31 December 2015 without successor and replaced by a budgetary body. It is not a question of why this sudden change of law, the quick change is justified by the ideas set out below: the structural problems of the current NAT organisation justify that the public authority should be taken over by the State and carried out by a budgetary body; the rule of law of a member of the government and the obligation to report are not sufficient to ensure that NAT actually carries out its activities in the interest of the public interest, the current structural problems result in the excessive concentration of the decision-making mechanism in the case of NAT. Compared to this, NAT celebrated the 20th anniversary of its operation this year. There must have been some mistakes, and in the summer debate we talked about it being too slow, too bureaucratic, and we also suggested that the existing system be reformed and not create a new one, and in this case we might call it a bullshit. Dear Parliament, There may be a very serious problem with the law and the new rules if the new law adopted in the summer has been so clearly shown that it does not include elementary independence guarantees. The government and the authors are ashamed to take over the guarantees of previous legislation. It does not appear that Minister János Lázár is conceiving his efforts to shorten the general administrative time limits in the public administration to the extent that he cannot enforce the shortening of the length of the individual administrative procedures. It seems that customer-friendly administrative procedures only appear on the posters by slogans, because, in vain, János Lázár reduces the deadline for administration, if Mihály Varga is able to ignore government intentions, he is able to dribble out János Lázár when he acknowledges that in the future the deadline for administration cannot be extended, while pushing the planned deadline for administration. Thus the deadline for the evaluation phase will be the 3 months agreed in summer instead of 100 days, so the deadline for the decision-making phase will be the 20 days agreed in summer instead of 30 days, so the deadline for the inspection assessment phase will be 65 days instead of the 50 days agreed in summer, so the deadline for the decision-making phase of the supervisory inquiry will be 15 days instead of the 10 days adopted in summer. [[14.50]] The wishes and dreams of the legislators of the bill before us are perhaps the strongest one in the proposal 10. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 It shall be noted that the accreditation certificate issued by the NAT shall be withdrawn by the accreditation body in the course of the first inspection carried out by it and shall issue an accreditation certificate of the same content at the same time, depending on the outcome of the inspection. There will be a problem with that, my fellow Members. The new body will not be able to issue an accreditation certificate with the same content, since as a result of the summer activities of my fellow Members, Szatmáry and Cseresnyés, the international licence of the Hungarian accreditation body will cease to exist and they will only be able to issue at home level. That's what we talked about this summer. It is not easy to imagine what will become of the laboratory area of food safety, international police cooperation and public health if only Hungary is covered by accreditation certificates. Since NAT will cease without successors, all international status in the European Union will be abolished and the new accreditation body will also have to comply with all requirements in order to obtain international licences. What we talked about this summer basically takes a year and a half or two. Well, please, here's the mistake, the boomerang of unbridled and insane legislation, because with the current rules, it's impossible. The legislator is forced to enter a number of guarantees into the law, but it can't even reach the international accredited status. It is proposed that international cooperation agreements concluded by NAT and rights and obligations entered into as members of international organisations will be transferred to the accreditation body. So they want to keep NAT's international licenses. This effort, however, is a dead experiment in the ashes. On the one hand, the new organisation is not the successor of the former body, and on the other hand, the new organisation cannot undress the nature of its independence as a government body as it was before as a public body. This is why the legislator broke up with the previous logic in the summer, because it lacked the legal possibility of government intervention in the accreditation activity. With regard to national accreditation, the work of the government can be summarised below. The Summer Law Initiative destroys the entire Hungarian accreditation system, but after the international licenses we talked about are in jeopardy, they want to seize the last straw as a result of the warnings of the European Accreditation Forum. Based on the experience of recent years, it can be said that its success is still in doubt. On this basis, we cannot support the proposal. This bill would not be necessary if you listened to the position of the MSZP or even the Jobbike in the summer. They know that everything that is happening in this area is solely responsible for themselves, everything that happens in this area after 1 January 2016 will be the crime of the Satmáry-Cseresnyés doubles and Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2015-11-17-93	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of KDNP is coming. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here.
u2015-11-17-94	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2015 CXXIV on national accreditation before us. T/6987. The aim of the proposal is to create a new single national accreditation system, which must also comply with the international requirements of European accreditation cooperation. It is important to point out that cooperation supports the improvement of the quality of the services provided by national accreditation bodies by means of a mechanism of peer review, thereby the mutual acceptance of certificates of conformity in the Union and worldwide. The need to ensure a high level of financial supervision can be set as a key objective, as it allows the protection of the public interest in areas such as health or general product safety, bearing in mind consumer protection or environmental protection requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the predecessor of the national accreditation authority, the National Accreditation Board, resulting from the legislative amendment, we can see that it reported that it accredited 165 organisations in 2014 and carried out surveillance investigations in 532 cases. Its priority was, among other things, the accreditation of greenhouse gas emissions certification organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft shall also lay down the structure of the authority resulting from the new central budgetary body, the rules of the accreditation, the inspection procedure, the recognition of the status accredited abroad, the detailed rules for the notification of a change in the circumstances on which the accredited status is based. Similar rules, integrated into public administration, exist, for example, in Austria and Slovakia. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, the accreditation procedure consists of an evaluation and a decision-making phase. During the evaluation phase, the evaluation team, consisting of experts and qualified persons, shall deliver an opinion on the documents submitted, identify any deficiencies, take part in an on-the-spot inspection and submit an opinion to the authority which shall order the completion of the evaluation phase. The procedure shall then enter the decision-making phase, where the Accreditation Committee shall examine the file drawn up by the evaluation team and draw up its opinion. Under the new rules, a supervisory review procedure shall be initiated at the request of the accredited organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal is expected to make the accreditation procedure faster, more efficient and more transparent, and may also lead to a long-term reduction of procedural fees as the accredited status increases its validity. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-95	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2015-11-17-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We now have a proposal for an amendment of the law, and we need to give an opinion on what has not actually entered into force yet. It has not entered into force and it is already necessary to amend it, according to the explanatory memorandum, in order to comply with the requirements of European accreditation cooperation. The question arises as to what kind of legislative procedure the original proposal was made, which was not so long ago before Parliament, if you did not take these standards into account in its creation and if, for these reasons, it is necessary to improve it already. Why could it not have been incorporated into the original proposal, and then we would have spared ourselves the insanity of having to submit an amendment to Parliament even a few months after its adoption, even before its entry into force. I think I don't know what kind of codificator group is behind the government, but I'm pretty sure that the lawyers working alongside Jobbik's faction would have made a more demanding suggestion on the table. I do not believe that it is too high a level of legislation to do so. But, by the way, political decisions are behind it, because it is often necessary to adapt the legal profession and the officials to such hasty political decisions, which is not very followable, because, for example, if you decide to transform the national accreditation system and present this decision to professional organisations in time, carefully, through the various conciliation processes, and not, let's say, as individual representatives beat it through Parliament in a few weeks, in a week or two, then obviously such things could be eliminated. However, there is always a need to look for some political motivation behind these decisions, and there is always a staff of officials who need to put it in the form of legislation, and it is their job to respond to these hasty political ideas. So it is the government's fault, in fact, that this draft legislation could be created in the first place. [[15.00]] In spite of the fact that the amendment would include positive things, such as extending the accreditation status from four to five years or even the supervisory procedure - this renders the process that, by transforming the national accreditation system, is in the government's best interests or what the government intends to do. I do not think that this shows what will happen after 1 January 2016, whether this system will work, what will happen to Hungarian accreditation, what will happen to those whose certificate will expire and should be renewed. There's a huge uncertainty in the air. It's mid-November, and it'll all come into force in a month and a half. We also abstained in the final vote on the original bill because we said that if the government gave its name to this lack of legislative and political decision-making, then so be it, but Jobbik is not expected to support it. The aim is to put national accreditation under state supervision and to destroy the current accreditation system, so to speak, whether it is good and time will decide, but the way they do it is certainly not eligible for us. In adopting the amendment, as in adopting the original proposal, we will follow the same approach, and we will now say that it has a soul for the government. We are curious to see how this bill and the resulting national accreditation body, which will be subject to public supervision, will fulfil its expectations in the course of its operation. Obviously, everyone's aim, or the blessing, would be to reduce bureaucracy, really reduce the costs of companies in relation to accreditation and review procedures, and most importantly - this is a very important thing - the transition would go smoothly. The last thing we can see at this moment is what will happen to organisations whose international accreditation expires, and they will be in a vacuum from 1 January if this organisation does not function properly. Moreover, the fact that administrative amendments are made in accordance with the interests or requirements of the European accreditation body, i.e. the extension of time limits by 10-20 days, may mean something in substance, but I really do not believe that this is the most important thing to say in this legislative amendment proposal, because it is fundamentally positive, for example, as I mentioned earlier, that this accredited status increases from four to five years, and, as has been said in the introduction, the number of supervisory investigations and renewal audits is actually saving the costs of companies during the audit. However, we have raised serious questions already during the debate on the bill that accredited institutions, such as testing laboratories, or forensic medical examiners or criminal laboratories, whose accreditation will cease, and if this issue is not resolved, or companies that will not have international accreditation, how will they be able to perform their task, to which we have not received a satisfactory response. We very much hope that this new legislative amendment proposal does not mean that there is a rush and confusion within the government's interests, because it confirms that if, within the next month and a half, you want to bring another amendment proposal to Parliament, because you will realize that it does not actually comply with the European accreditation cooperation standards that justify bringing the amendment to the House, then we can actually miss the deadline and it may mean that on 1 January that organisation will not stand up and that accreditation will not work as expected. With this concern, I would like to conclude today's speech on the subject of renewal of national accreditation, and that is precisely why we will not be able to support it calmly or in any way. The best that the government can expect from us is a neutral, abstaining position, which is that we are curious that we will emerge from this hasty legislation and this confusion in the future. There are also some details that we would like to deal with and on which the Jobbik faction will also submit an amendment, but in its ordinary speech, my colleague György Szilágyi will speak about them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-17-97	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member is present in the Chamber, no two-minute comments have been made, and no one has indicated in writing their intention to speak in advance. Thus, there will be speeches by the Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, please.
u2015-11-17-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, we have dealt with this law in the summer, and we have already raised problems as to why, for example, the National Accreditation Board, which was established two decades ago and which was equipped ten years ago with procedures consistent with EU directives and expectations, should be removed. We did not understand it because, as a basic reason for termination, things were named and marked that, in our view, did not justify this law. One of these reasons was that the structure of the organisation was based on an overly concentrated decision-making mechanism, which led to operational problems in practice. We did not understand it, and if we are talking about procedural problems, it is unjustified to remove the whole structure. If it really was the problem that you named at the time that the CEO of that time had too strong licenses, then why didn't they re-regulate them and why the organization of that time had to be replaced by your idea of setting up a completely new one. Let us state that this institution plays a very important role for the economy. So if, after 1 January 2016, the state is not obliged to take over the current employment staff at the time, and therefore I was pleased to hear that at least we were able to move forward in this regard, and perhaps thanks to Jobbik's suggestion, as Parliamentary Secretary said, here he said, if I understood correctly, that the state would take over the NAT apparatus, and that the institution might function more normally, because the staff of such an institution should not be allowed to wind up, because then we can be sure that the provision of tasks can stop for a significant period of time. So this could also be a problem that might cause a bigger problem from 1 January. We also said that we consider this bill to be unprepared, unthinkable and unacceptable, which was presented at the time, and we raised questions that have been hanging in the air ever since, since in the argument system of your reasoning, it was also mentioned that administrative service fees are too high, and that is what Kristóf Szatmáry was talking about, that this service fee will be cheaper. At that time, it was considered that the fees and rates for procedural acts were set by a ministerial decree and that the NAT Council had an obligation to propose the fees, which it did not comply with. We also asked whether, if that is the case, what did the supervising minister, who otherwise has an obligation to monitor each year, had done in order to restore the legality of the operation. We didn't get an answer. We said that if irregularities were actually detected in the annual procedures, whether NAT had implemented the necessary proposals for action to restore legitimate operation. If this was the case and NAT did not terminate its infringement practice, then did the Minister of Supervisors appeal to the court, which is also the right and duty of the NAT Act 21/B. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. We didn't get any answers to these questions, and we haven't had any answers since. So the question arises whether you want to restore legality and legitimate operation or something else in connection with the law you submitted at the time. We have said that this will result in uncertainty and lack of transparency in a key area such as the system of national accreditation. [[15.10]] And then we got to this point, and you voted for it, and you accepted it, and we are now now, once again, on a motion by your own representatives, tabled by Kristóf Szatmáry, a Fidesz MEP, which was at the beginning of the summer, and the National Accreditation Board was abolished. It is not surprising, though sadder, that, in order to ensure the practical application of the acute legislative process, the portfolio now changes significantly the legal texts that have not yet entered into force. In this process of amendment, it is also possible to see the rush, the wording of the momentary interests, as well as the contrast with the existing norms in this area. The elimination of the national accreditation system was previously challenged by Jobbik Hungary Movement. As I said, we have drawn attention to the expected negative effects, to the slowing down of the accreditation process and to the possible cessation of the accreditation process. The new system should work on 1 January 2016, which - I stress once again - is a national interest, but we are still only dealing with the absolution of the law, the implementing regulations are nowhere yet, the institution has not yet stood up, the operators concerned have no idea what they need to do, where they need to turn from January. The likelihood of operating anomalies that we have indicated in the summer is therefore greater than ever, there is a realistic risk that the system of national accreditation will stop from January. Reading through the texts of the specific amendment proposal, point 1 already makes an eye out, in which the possibility of redress and review is excluded by the law. The justification only explains the change as technical clarification, but this is not entirely correct. According to the legal text currently in force, the appeal is excluded in three cases: (1) in the case of a decision to extend the administrative deadline for the evaluation phase, (2) in the case of a decision to extend the administrative deadline for the decision-making phase and (3) in the case of a substantive decision on the accreditation application. In other decisions, such as decisions taken during supervisory checks, decisions on recognition of foreign accredited status and other decisions taken in the course of the procedure, it was therefore possible to provide for a normal remedy. On the other hand, the amendment generally excludes the possibility of appeals and re-entry proceedings. Of course, the Fundamental Law Article XXVIII. However, there is a question as to the extent to which this type of remedy is effective and effective. According to previous practice, there was an appeal committee within the public body, whose task was to deal with appeals and complaints. The reason for the amendment is that the independent review office, which is directly placed under the Director-General, will deal with any complaints. Let us think, fellow Members, perhaps Minister of State, that during the procedure of the accreditation body, the head of the body, the Director-General, will sign the decision, which will be entitled to investigate complaints against the decision, an independent office whose management, the exercise of his employer's rights, will be carried out by the Director General who formally made the decision, so that he has signed it. I hope that you too feel that the situation is maladministration and that there is a clear conflict of interest for everyone, because you will certainly decide independently on these issues. The amending proposal was adopted in accordance with Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Paragraph 2 contains several new provisions, of which the accreditation body shall immediately inform the designating authority of its decision in respect of the accredited status. Mr Secretary, I am talking about a very important issue, because I think it is absolutely unnecessary. I don't even understand the point of this at all. After all, the concept or person of the designating authority is unclear, but we may be oriented by the justification, where the proposal already explicitly refers to the NGM. [[András Szatmáry Szatmáry, standing at his seat, consults him for a long time.]] However, the problem far greater than the undefined actor is that neither the legislative text nor the justification points to the purpose for which this should be done by the accreditation body. According to the text of the law currently in force - I will certainly not get an answer, because if someone does not hear what we are asking, they will not be able to answer it, but I will tell you, however, that you may look back, Mr Secretary, when you are available, and you may answer this question in writing. So I do not understand and I do not understand the fact that, according to the legislation currently in force, the accreditation body keeps a public register, which is public, an up-to-date register available to everyone on its website. Therefore, if there is such a register and this provision is not changed by the amending proposal, why should the accreditation body have to provide specific information to the NGM, what does the NGM need with these data? If you need data, why don't you look at the public record, which is otherwise managed by the same organization? Perhaps the creators of the amending proposal do not know - but we will not get an answer to that question now - where the public register of the necessary data can be found and how can it be accessed? If you don't know, we'd be happy to help them, so come to us, and we'll show you where to find them. This is precisely because, in my opinion, this is a pointless amendment - we have tabled an amendment, and please consider it if you have time to read it and see if this is appropriate for you. I know, of course, that these are rhetorical questions that I would like to highlight, unfortunately, that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about national accreditation, and unfortunately, this uncertainty can be seen primarily on the institutional side. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable government parties and secretary of state to the basic wisdom that we need time to do good work, and we need to measure it twice and cut it once. I know that Viktor Orbán himself pointed out the terrible practice he considered to be in the Scandinavian countries, where they dispute a decision for up to 7-8 months before making it. Well, according to Viktor Orbán, this practice is not possible in Hungary. You have been in government for five years now, so you have all the resources available to make good rules after thorough preparation, compared to this, you are running a law factory that produces scraps, consumes more energy to improve unfulfilled, unknowable, messy rules, as if once the decision preparation had been normally completed with months of work. Finally, I would like to say in advance that I will not be very upset with the answer I receive from the Secretary of State, just as we were given during the first trial of this law this summer, when he also paid about this much attention to what we were saying, and then accused us of professional incompetence in his return, he said that we were not talking about this law at all, he does not know what we said at all, because it is completely unprofessional, we do not understand it, and we are looking for the wrong in everything. You will probably say this right now, although I would add, Mr Secretary of State, that I have noticed in this debate that everyone here was well aware of what NAT means, what national accreditation means. You were the only one who read his lyrics completely sometimes, and somehow felt that maybe he didn't understand it or think it was a good thing, he would like to leave, because I can see that he also stained his fellow State Secretary when he spoke a lot earlier; I suppose he had other things to do. We don't, we're here to work for our money. [[Uproar, interrogations from Fidesz's so.]] And we draw your attention to the fact that they cause problems and problems that they cause in the national accreditation system at the moment. Thank you very much for listening, and you have the patience to express your opinion in perhaps 13-14 minutes. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-99	Thank you very much. Mr Nándor Gúr is the next speaker, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-17-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am no longer attempting to ask Mr Secretary of State to pay attention to the Members who are speaking, even because they are not reading on paper what you will do in your rejoinder. [[15.20]] Mr Secretary of State, if you would respect Parliament and Members of Parliament a little, you would know that in the previous hour or so, in relation to the debate on this agenda, I cannot count, not one, not two, but on one hand, how many questions have been formulated. If you have the right ability, you've clearly noted these questions in your mind because you didn't put them on paper, and we've been able to follow them. I hope that he has the right ability to remember and answer them in his head. It would be better for you to do so while you are on the move, not waiting for Parliamentary Members, Members of Parliament, to be able to respond back to what you have said. Although I don't doubt that's not gonna happen. I highly suspect that you will not answer these questions as you go along, and I even assume that you will not reply at the end, but that you will read to us something that you have been given, and we will listen with great respect and attention. About that, which is likely to characterize your confirmation work in the coming period. But that's not right, Mr. Secretary. I think it is not right because I believe that there are people on every side of the parliamentary horseshoe who are well-informed and who take the trouble to read these draft laws, sum up their own position and their faction's position and say them. Then I think that they should have the minimum respect, both individually and in fact the fact that they pay attention to this as their professional owners, and that they respond in a fair manner to the opportunity. They say hope is the last thing to die. I still hope and hope that this period will come, but we have not yet experienced it. Let's go a little further into the national accreditation issue. Look, Secretary of State, in the summer, we asked for not only one faction, but several factions, but we warned you, but the request appeared as well as the warning that this draft law should be withdrawn. This should be withdrawn; my fellow Member Szatmáry was here, he has experienced it, my fellow Members Cseresnyes, and a few other Members with not too many Fidesz and KDNP. We have made these warnings because we have seen how and how they are moving forward on a road that is not a profitable, productive road, because the domestic accreditation system is being demolished and destroyed through what they are doing. And this process, coupled with the breakdown and destruction of the accreditation system, obviously coupled with the threat of international licensing - we were talking more about putting it at risk - but now we need to talk about not putting it at risk, but about the abolition of these international accreditation permissions. Yes, about the termination, because no matter how much they say no, no, there is no such problem, there are also problems with succession. And just think about the multitude of companies that are engaged in export activities, and the need to have different laboratory tests in place for the exported product should be kept in the background. However, if, in the absence of accreditation, they cannot be produced with regard to the damage and termination of international licences, what economic disadvantage these companies will suffer in the coming period. They're talking about speeding up the process. This is hardly a positive example, because if something bad and done to speed up that evil or do multiples, doubles or triples it, it doesn't profit, it's combined with bringing damage to a cumulative life. One word, like a hundred, I believe that it is quite a slippery one, that a new unified national accreditation system is being built. And I can safely say that it is also shameful - it has already been said here in the House - that the law has not yet entered into force, and it is already necessary to make a major change. This is typical of your work. In terms of public procurement and other matters, we have seen this week, last week and the week before the level of constructiveness in the legislative redesign process. Obviously, the many mistakes made are being re-established and corrected by you. But my problem is, as it has been said, that we should think seriously once about putting a bill on the table, and we should act more carefully, well-foundedly, not first kick it, smash anything. I am talking about the National Accreditation Board, on which my fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, said that the members were not interested, so they did not appear; this was said in his introductory speech. I think that, in the case of the National Accreditation Board, the fact that the members were not interested is a strange sentence that I do not want to understand. How does my fellow Member feel about this interest? Through what must the members of the National Accreditation Board create their interests in order to carry out their duties in the public body? Yeah, we're not talking about a public body anymore, yeah, that's what we know, because it's about a government-led, supervised organization. So, the point of the story is, not to kick it, not to destroy it, but to build it. The problem is that this process, coupled with the process of calling to life between the frames of the crowds of national markers, is, in many cases, not to make the processes better, but to make the processes more difficult. Those who make use of these processes, i.e. users of services, are more vulnerable. So, I think there is a lot of doubt in this regard that what they are doing in this regard is good, appropriate, and, on the other hand, harming someone. If we're gonna get this far to see if it's gonna hurt anyone, I don't suppose you'd want to hurt anyone directly, let's say, to be good for others. I don't want to assume that, because I think you need to be guided by more serious intentions when you're about to make any changes. However, there is always a doubt after that that I do not want to assume, but what is the real reason, then, is that the process that we are experiencing in connection with this case is taking place in the past six months with the Accreditation Board. If they don't want to hurt you, who would benefit from this story? Here again the question arises whether it is in the best interests of anyone if something becomes inoperable, if only temporarily endowed with problems. Then what is driving you in this regard? Or if there is something that controls you, then why is it not happening in such a way that it clearly serves the interests of business organisations, a multitude of businesses. My fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, also mentioned that increasing and strengthening entrepreneurship is an important thing. I do not argue with you that any matter that serves the interests of existing, living, operating businesses to strengthen them, puts them in position or strengthens them, strengthens the existence of undertakings placed in the position is important. That's important, since the forints that produce taxes come back through these surfaces. [[15.30]] It's just, you know, once again there's doubt, when you see in the past, in almost six years, that it's the destruction of thousands of businesses in a given period of months that we're faced with, then we have to say that this and this type of measures certainly have an impact, not a positive, but rather a negative impact on the development of these processes. So, to sum up the story, if we are thinking not only about the issue of national accreditation, but we are thinking about en block, and we are thinking about other service activities in line with the scope of business, then we should organize it somewhere, we should think about it and put it on the stage and stage of action, how and how to carry out helpful activities. Because what has been done about this particular issue, the operation of the national accreditation issue, the functioning of the body, the existence of its driving licence system, the desecration of it or the termination of it, does not build and does not strengthen the actors of the Hungarian economy. If you are serious, my fellow Member, Szatmáry, that even this National Accreditation Board should be able to operate in such a way as to strengthen businesses, to provide a positive service to businesses, to ensure the background that is really linked to the increase in the production of forints in their everyday life, then this is not the way to go. It is not necessary to go through a road where they are practically destroyed, where existing driving licences are put in jeopardy or abolished, and instead they are not provided with new driving licences. So, I have to say, finally, that I cannot draw your attention to anything else in the context of legislation, but that it is worth stepping forward, rather slow steps, rather with chicken steps, but effectively, well-founded, which is not a violation of interests, i.e. the interests of a multitude of businesses, but is helping, as I have said, to create as many businesses as possible, as possible and as much as possible, let us say, with export capacity in Hungary; not as in recent years, where tens of thousands of businesses can be accounted for. Obviously, no one wants a large number of businesses present on the stage that cannot and do not want to play a part in the production of new forints, but those who are trying to do so should not be prevented, but should really be helped in a tangible way. All I want to say is that I see that you are not willing, you do not want to acknowledge or accept what my fellow Members are talking about on the opposition side. If they make specific proposals, they will not accept them either. If you approach it in general, you don't care. Returning to the first thought, I think that it would be much more effective if the government side within the Parliament's horseshoe could also show some willingness to listen not only to the opposition's representatives in a forced manner, but also to hear their proposals. Perhaps our work would be more effective. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-17-101	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi asked for a two-minute speech, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-17-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask two short questions and, if I may, to Kristóf Szatmáry. I would ask Kristóf Szatmáry this question because, in my experience, he does not sit on the high horse on which others sit and hold fast. For this reason, because he is not sitting on a high horse that can otherwise fall hard, we were able to have a constructive debate with each other during the summer. So, one of the two short questions would be that he said in his speech that the preservation and strengthening of independence would be one of the main tasks of this organisation. So, you didn't mean that you were independent of the government, but of the organizations that came to you. Because you can't think that you'll be independent of the government. The other question, and that would be absolutely essential, is that I would say it again because I just saw that you had to talk to Mr. Secretary of State, and you might not have been able to pay attention to Jobbik's suggestion that we take out the 8th Amendment. Paragraph (10). It is in this paragraph (10) that the planned reporting required by the bill refers to data on which the body otherwise obliged to provide information keeps a public-credit register, which is publicly available to anyone free of charge and in electronic form on its reporting website. Therefore, given the reduction of bureaucracy and the need to ensure efficient management of institutional resources, this duplication is not good. We would therefore like to delete paragraph (10) because we consider it unnecessary. I would like to ask Kristóf Szatmáry, who I think understands the operation of this whole system, whether he supports making this otherwise not good law better with at least one such amendment proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] We would therefore like to delete paragraph 1 because we consider it unnecessary. I would like to ask Kristóf Szatmáry, who I think understands the operation of this whole system, whether he supports making this otherwise not good law better with at least one such amendment proposal. Thank you so much for listening. (Sort of applause in the ranks of Jobbik. )
u2015-11-17-103	Thank you very much. Please, Honourable Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-104	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity, for the word. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to some of the questions raised by Members. Firstly, I do not think it is a real criticism that the government is not in contact with European accreditation cooperation. It is precisely this proposal that justifies and indicates that it is in a continuous dialogue with the organisation that qualifies national accreditation organisations. And the result, for example, is this bill, this proposal. Then there is no real conclusion and criticism that the accreditation activity in Hungary will essentially cease as of December 31, 2015, because only the public body will cease to exist. So the National Accreditation Board will cease to exist, and it will be replaced by an office, a budgetary body. Basically, every contract we have concluded, every commitment we make, will be carried forward by this organization, this budgetary body. One thing is true, however, that it is not its successor in the matter of organizational law, simply because it cannot be turned into a public body. Nor is the criticism that this body will cease to be independent by becoming a budgetary body. After all, the decision of the Authority will be taken with the involvement of external experts, taking into account their opinions. The Government has decided to set up the Accreditation Council, where civil society organisations will participate in its activities. This will ensure a high level of control. I feel that these criticisms, which some Members have said, are wrong. In addition, it is likely that there is a misinterpretation of the fact that the deadlines are extending, even though they are actually falling by 30-40 percent. After all, the presentation states that there is no possibility, for example, to extend procedural deadlines or to set shorter deadlines. [[15.40]] Some Members did not understand the reduction either, as the government has a 10-15% reduction plan in the present proposal and in the future, and would like these accreditation costs to be further reduced. I would also like to say that the criticism that the implementing regulation has not been drawn up is not justified, since it has already been accepted by the government, and all of this by having a significant social debate or social dialogue on the proposal. So yes, the professionals know this, and basically the final version was accepted. I do not think that the criticism that a two-level remedy procedure is not guaranteed is real either. It is true that this is quasi-officially ensured, since, alongside the Director-General, there will be an appeal office, where second-degree applications will be evaluated, while the Deputy Director-General will be responsible and responsible for the decisions at first instance. Finally, for some personal remarks: I say to György Szilágyi that his personalistic, superior, insulting style is incomprehensible. I never talked about your person in Parliament like this, I've always been concerned about what you said, and I've been trying to react to it. This is only incomprehensible because I have been elected as an individual representative five times by voters with this style and this look as I am. You've never been elected. [[A statement from the Fidesz: You will never be heard.]] So I think that this cynical, sarcastic style is incomprehensible. In 17 and a half years in Parliament, I never once allowed myself to do this. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] And the voters, I think, are entitled to a lot of things. I thank you very much for your participation in the debate, and I very much hope that the factions will nevertheless support you and that you will receive the majority in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the draft law amending the laws concerning certain actors in the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes until closure. The government referral is T/7396. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor once again to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, author. Here.
u2015-11-17-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As shown by the title of the bill, the proposed bill is primarily aimed at transposing EU legislation into domestic law. At the same time, I would like to point out at the outset that we want to ensure compliance with EU standards taking into account the specificities of the domestic financial sector. The bill before you initiates the amendment of certain laws governing pension insurance, capital markets and credit institutions. Dear Parliament, Demographic challenges place a heavy burden on pension systems across Europe, and self-care is a key factor in addition to public pensions. Among the supplementary pension savings, occupational pension provision institutions, built on an occupational commitment, have played a key role in many EU Member States for a long time. These institutions have also been harmonised in the EU for over a decade. In the proposed legislation, the latest step in legislative harmonisation will be transposed. In addition to employers' institutions, personal pension savings are also increasing in all Member States of Europe, as they are becoming increasingly popular in forms of self-care due to their flexibility. Voluntary mutual insurance institutions are key players in the domestic individual savings market. Taking into account market experience, the proposals aim at ensuring the security of the savings of the cash registers, the flexibility of the cash-flow services and the efficiency of the cash-flow operations. Dear Parliament, Recent changes to EU directives in the regulation of collective investment as part of the capital market justify changes. Due to the transposition of a directive on a determining group of investment funds and fund managers, the law on collective investment forms and their managers should be amended, as well as the law on the National Bank of Hungary due to the sanctions rules that are being imposed in this area. Market and supervisory experience has led to the strengthening of the role and responsibilities of depositaries ensuring the overall supervision of investment in investment funds, thereby further strengthening investor protection. The requirement to define a remuneration policy for the entire range of investment fund managers serves the same purpose on a permanent basis. Dear Parliament, One of the main objectives of the bill is to harmonise the EU mortgage credit directive. In February 2014, the European Union adopted the mortgage credit directive in order to facilitate the development of a more transparent and efficient credit market. As a result of the crisis, the proportion of non-paying debtors and the number of forced sales increased almost everywhere, given that most of the debts are related to residential properties. The primary objective of EU regulation is therefore to prevent over-indebtedness of households, to ensure responsible, reliable functioning of markets, and to protect consumer interests. The mortgage credit directive provides a high level of consumer protection for borrowers, thus imposing requirements for creditors and credit intermediaries alike. The Directive also introduces general principles and rules for marketing and advertising publications, pre-contractual information, the definition of the total rate of charge, the examination of the consumer's creditworthiness, tying and early repayment. In Hungary, the most important consumer protection provisions already apply to mortgages. The bill therefore contains most of the amendments and additions to the rules already in force by amending the law on credit to the consumer and the Act on Credit Institutions in force from 2010. Certain rules, such as those relating to the assessment of creditworthiness and the definition of the total rate of charge, require amendments to existing government regulations. The rules on credit advice and professional knowledge of creditors' and credit intermediaries' employees will be laid down in a new Government Decree. In view of the specificities of mortgage loans, advertising and pre-contractual information should also include specific risk warnings, such as the consequences of the provision of mortgage collateral. On the basis of the bill, advertising must always indicate the value of the annual percentage rate of charge, which ensures the possibility of comparison with other creditor's products. In order for the consumer to consider and consider the taking up of a mortgage loan, even to request legal financial advice, the bill provides that the draft contract must be submitted at least three days prior to the conclusion of the contract. The creditor must maintain his offer for 15 days, but the consumer may accept it earlier. To conclude on this subject, I would like to point out that the proposals presented contribute to strengthening both the responsible and informed behaviour of creditors and borrowers. Dear Parliament, The bill also necessarily amends the provisions of the Hungarian National Bank Act. On the one hand, the amendments became necessary in relation to the implementation obligation already mentioned, and, on the other hand, on the basis of supervisory experience, a number of provisions to assist the application of the regulation and the financial supervisor were included in the provisions of the amending Act. In this regard, it is necessary to list among the tasks of the MNB the obligation to implement the EU regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. In addition, as I referred to earlier in the Expoze, the proposal also transposes the quantitative definition of the fine applicable to managers and custodians of these funds, as well as to persons and employees in management positions, to ensure compliance with the Directive on certain special investment funds and fund managers. [[15.50]] One of the most important innovations of the proposal to amend the MNB Act is that it again allows the MNB acting as a supervisory authority to bring an action in the public interest in order to establish the nullity of the unfair general contractual clauses that become part of the contract between the consumer and the financial institution. I believe that this is a measure which significantly promotes the protection of consumers' interests. In addition to the above, the amendment of the MNB Act mainly addresses procedural issues and the powers of action applicable in the course of the proceedings. Dear Parliament, Further to the presentation of the amending provisions, I refer to two main reasons for amending the Payment Services Act. The reason for the amendment is, on the one hand, that, in the event of a switch of a universal service provider, there is no need to grant a new authorisation for increasingly popular collective direct debit orders and, on the other hand, that the interchange fees for card-based payment transactions are further regulated by a directly applicable EU regulation. In the summer of last year, the law on the further development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain financial intermediaries, commonly known as the Resolution Act, was adopted. With this, Hungary was the first to fulfil its legal harmonisation obligation in order to strengthen the security of the banking system. However, the experience gained in the meantime, the entry into force of second-level EU legislation and the guidelines of the European Banking Authority have made it necessary to clarify and fine-tuning a number of details. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the main objective of the proposed legislation is to introduce amendments to the financial intermediary system, which have become necessary through implementation obligations, which are often strongly reinforcing the protection of consumers or investors. I am convinced that all of this also serves to strengthen confidence in the sector. I would ask you to support and vote in favour of the bill tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-17-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-17-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! For all of us, unfortunately, it is a well-known fact that the financial intermediary system, i.e. the banks, is a part of our economic system, where if we do not regulate properly and strictly, they can cause very great damage to the entire national economy and to many Hungarian citizens, although the importance of the banks and the credit intermediary system is very important. The financial crisis in recent years has well highlighted the importance of regulating this part of the market, as excessive lending, high willingness to take risks, unfortunately sometimes coupled with financial indiscipline, can launch very serious negative processes in a national economy, as unfortunately in previous years, given the lack of regulatory willingness of previous governments, has caused very big problems. Unfortunately, credit and liquidity difficulties in the financial world do not only cause problems in one sector, but also typically spread to other sectors of the economy. In order to reduce the chance of a financial crisis in today's globalised world, it is worth re-regulating the financial regulatory environment at certain times. They do not do this differently in the European Union. It is precisely to this end that directives are drawn up that are offered to the other Member States for adoption. An example of this is here: it is about the desirable and timely transposition of these EU directives into Hungarian law in the T/7396 before us. Bill No. 1. One of these important directives is the 2014/17. Council Directive, perhaps more simply a mortgage credit directive, with the main aim of ensuring a high level of consumer protection and thereby increasing consumer confidence; while allowing the free movement of credit offers across borders, the distortion of competition resulting from national rules on consumer credit, i.e. the harmonisation of the two. At the same time, however, we would like to point out that the aim of the directive is not primarily to provide consumers with as much credit as possible or to encourage them to do so, but rather to obtain all the necessary information prior to borrowing for careful consideration, thereby ensuring their rights. It is important to know that the scope of the directive did not initially apply to mortgage loans, but now this legislation also covers this area. Taking into account the specificities of the types of credit, it was also justified to amend the 2009 law on credit to consumers. The proposed legislation, as the Secretary of State has mentioned here, is changing a number of areas: commercial communication, pre-contractual information rules; it also complements the requirements for assessing creditworthiness and introduces new provisions on tying and foreign exchange loans. The proposal also devotes a significant part to the parts of the credit intermediary activity, thus naming the credit advisory activity as a new additional financial service, as well as defining or amending the concepts related to the transposition of the EU mortgage credit directive. It shall increase the additional financial services that financial institutions may carry out by providing credit advice; the mortgage lending activity acting as a dependent agent will also be subject to a supervisory authorisation; it shall lay down general rules for the withdrawal of the authorisation of the intermediary activity; for the credit advisory activity, the independent and dependent intermediary will be entitled to compensation only if it does not receive a brokerage fee from the financial institution concerned after the credit it recommends. It lays down new rules on the obligation of intermediaries to provide information; it lays down the scope of the services which can be carried out with authorisation only in the context of the credit advisory activity. Another part of the bill concerns the adoption of another directive: the Council Directive on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, which contains amendments to the depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions. In view of the fact that the new provisions will enter into force from 18 March 2016, the current negotiation is justified also due to the deadlines. In order to take over the directive, the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, as well as the Kbf. Act, also became necessary. The sanctions rules are tightened according to the EU framework, the powers granted to supervision are broadened and the rules on the liability of depositaries are clarified in the context of the legislative amendment. Further amendment, it may be worth mentioning here that, like the alternative investment fund manager, the requirement to define remuneration policy is extended to UCITS fund managers. Dear Parliament, Dear House, I think that the policy of the last few years shows that in the system of financial intermediaries, in the banking system, there is a very good reason for the continued monitoring of the state, the regulation and coordination of the various services activities, in particular for consumers and the national economy, the proposal submitted by the Fidesz fraction will therefore be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-17-109	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go. [[16.00]]
u2015-11-17-110	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal, which concerns the amendment of the laws concerning certain actors in the financial intermediary system for the purposes of harmonisation, amends a number of financial instruments, as the Members before me have made clear in detail and the rapporteur. I would like to highlight some, just to indicate that there are a lot of important issues that will be regulated in this law. Such is the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, such as the Law on Loans to Consumers, where perhaps one of the most important elements of the Directive is changing, the requirements for informing customers. I think this is a very important issue, because one of the important experiences in recent years has been that in many cases, the borrower did not have the information that would have been cardinal for him, if any, in terms of issues relating to credit repayment. It is therefore important that commercial communication on credit is more accurate and thus in the best interests of consumers. Then I would also like to refer to the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, which was mentioned here by the Secretary of State. The possibility of bringing an action in the public interest, while I was talking about consumer protection earlier, was an old demand from consumer organisations for the National Bank to have such an opportunity, since it is also responsible for supervision. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Similarly, proposals for credit intermediaries are important, even if there are clearly different lobbying interests. After all, if I remember correctly, the Banking Association welcomed the changes in this regard, but the credit intermediaries, of course, because of the limitation of the brokerage fee, which was set at 2 per cent, said, if I remember correctly, that the heads of several credit intermediaries were concerned that this commission ceiling would not result in banks being able to carry out this activity only on account of significant marketing costs and could even increase the credit. It is difficult to do justice here, I think, as a Member, because there may have been a marked conflict of lobbying interests in this proposal. Then the amendments to the National Deposit Insurance Fund, which are also part of this proposal, are equally important. In the light of these considerations, I would say that the vast majority of the proposal really improves the functioning of the financial market in line with the transposition of the EU directives, helps to facilitate consumer information and correct and eliminate problems and anomalies that have already been identified in practice. However, the amendment, as I have just referred to it, can also hide lobbying that is difficult to judge in many places. This was therefore difficult to detect and determine on the basis of a simple analysis of the law, and which is a major problem, and I would conclude by saying that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will continue to grow, and now the bank led by Mr Matolcsy will also have a serious impact on the finances of OBA members. Perhaps this is not news, that we are looking at György Matolcsy's activities with great concern and strong criticism, and therefore any change that gives György Matolcsy new tools is as worrying as his activity is for us. Therefore, given that there are a lot of positive points in this proposal, the MSZP fraction will remain in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-17-111	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-17-112	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to Article 42 of Directive 2014/17/EU on consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, Member States are to put into force by 21 March 2016 the laws and regulations necessary to comply with those Directives. To this end, the bill contains a number of laws, including CLXII 2009 on loans to consumers. CCXXXVII of 2013 on credit institutions and financial institutions CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. CXX of 2001 on capital markets. contains proposals for amendments to the Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fhtv to ensure the transposition of Directive 2008/48/EC on consumer credit agreements. Since the entry into force of a large part of its rules, mortgage loans have already been included, thus the regulatory foundations are already in place. That's Fhtv. requires that an appropriate explanation be provided to the consumer before the credit agreement is concluded in order to assess the consequences of the borrowing. The amendment complements the provision defining the content of the information. Where a related service is provided, the information shall include the related service as well as the circumstances under which the contract is terminated. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill amends, inter alia, the rules on commercial communication, pre-contractual information, complements the requirements for assessing creditworthiness, introduces new provisions on tying and foreign exchange loans. In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2014/49/EU on the deposit guarantee scheme, the payment deadline for the payment of compensation is Hpt. will gradually decrease from the current 20 working days to 7 working days according to its current provisions. During the transitional period until 2023 or later, if the 7 working days cannot be completed, the OBA shall be provided with a detailed payment to the depositors to cover the cost of living. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the amendment to the regulation on capital markets is to implement certain EU legislation or standards. The 1993 XCVI on voluntary mutual funds. Proposals containing amendments to the Act aim at ensuring the security of the savings of the members of the accounts, the flexibility of the cash-flow services, and the efficiency of the cash-flow operation. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-113	I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-11-17-114	Mr President, Dear House, A year or two ago, we would have welcomed certain parts of this package with great and breaking-out pleasure, which is why it is a bit unfortunate that this whole thing was wrapped in a salad, because the performance of so-called credit intermediaries can be very much linked to the disposal of foreign exchange-credited credit-damaged people. After all, during a very bad governance period in 2005-2008, these so-called credit intermediaries played a decisive role in the placement of so-called foreign exchange loans in Hungary. I'm looking at a 2005 figure, so they're only over 30 percent of mortgage loans, and 55 percent by 2007. So, without exaggerating, we are talking about a 100 billion-dollar market whose members took advantage of the legal gaps at the time, but often even beyond and following classified crimes - we always say that respect is the exception, but at systemic level it is true - they robbed Hungarian people or contributed to the looting of Hungarian people. And the resulting so-called government settlement is known as a system of damage reduction and mitigation, where compensation for victims has not been incurred, nor has it been fully compensated. [[16.10]] So, in fact, the government intended to take such a series of cosmetic steps, and we need to see that the unsolved situation of foreign exchange lenders still dries up the economy, still keeps its tracks in the real estate market, in the construction sector, so we see a number of projections that could have been avoided by settling the situation. If, therefore, the package of this salad for credit intermediaries had appeared a little earlier, when the government changed in 2010, I would do so, or even in 2011 after a conversion period, the Jobbik faction would have applauded very, very loudly. If all of this had been complemented by a consumer raid that would have examined the entire flow diagram of so-called lending by type of contract and by financial institution and the system in which it was implemented, the Jobbik fraction would have supported the Fidesz-KDNP motion with the largest breast width. Unfortunately, this did not happen. And if this bill already affects the National Bank of Hungary, let us also note that the question arises in the case of the National Bank of Hungary, as to why the profits of the so-called 100 billion dollars won in connection with the settlement of foreign currency loans have not been used at least on a case-by-case basis to try to compensate the Hungarian citizens, who have either been evicted or destroyed, or who have been put in a position from which they have not been reversed by a package intended for a solution, since tens of thousands of people in Hungary live by banks, financial institutions, credit intermediaries, stromones, unskilled people and qualified criminals who have been destroyed by their homes, their families, their work, their existence, their lives, and then a package of solutions accepted here in Parliament have not helped them to settle at least something out of their lives, because the packages adopted here have helped someone with the help of the most fortunate ones. That is why we can say that this upswing between 2005 and 2008 that we are experiencing in the context of the activities of credit intermediaries would have raised the need for the package now placed on the table in 2010 and 2011; but let us not reject this now, so let us not say that this is inherently wrong, because it is not bad at all, but the draft financial salad law could be discussed with responsibility if we could discuss its parts and the slices separately. And, obviously, I welcome the fact that, at the request of the client, information should be provided on the extent to which the level of remuneration charged by financial institutions providing loans to them is different; it is also welcome that the brokerage fee will finally have a ceiling, as we know that very, very much has been deducted from Hungarian people in various terms. It is also good that the intermediary fee should be paid in proportion to the duration of the contract, although this could obviously be complemented by a monitoring system which, by examining other market processes, also examines whether unexpected tariffs are not installed elsewhere. But it is also worth considering the volume involved. Again, we have data from the last year when banks have issued HUF 349 billion of housing loans, and market experts estimate that between 40 and 60 percent of them are broadcast by dependent or independent agents, and the average market commission is between 2.5 and 3.5 percent by the market and the industry. If we start from this and say that there is a 2-percent ceiling on this system, this will obviously not bring back the companies involved in this industry, or, in the case of others, let's say, the stock market introduction is slipping by a year, so the Hungarian voter still sleeps calmly, so it is entirely justified to cut some kind of ceiling in this case. At the same time, it is worth considering that these amounts of lending, which are considered to be horrific, which are not at all the same as those which would be justified by normal market processes in a normal market economy, are the origins that bring Hungarian people to it and have been forced to go into a financial institution in the years of so-called foreign currency lending, and in many cases - respect for the exception, but - even under the lowest conditions - take on these loans. The answer is very simple: these people have often been forced into constructions without other solutions that had a confusing background, which had no alternative to the market, and in addition to a relatively irregular consumer protection background, these Hungarian people, the people involved, could be badly damaged. Therefore, by touching the credit intermediary system, the proposal is absolutely welcome. How you touch it is another question, and if you can pull the fangs of the problem, the real question is whether you need to meet with credit intermediaries and jump into constructions, often outside of your own fault, such as the so-called currency loan. Here is the answer: if we look at construction statistics, let us say the scarcity of homes on the supply side in Hungary, how difficult it is for a young couple who start their lives to have an average size apartment where they can then have children, where, if there is a home, then perhaps emigration will not happen, or a person who works a few years abroad will return here. But what we see is that there is an amazingly small number of apartments built along the current statistical data, so roughly one fifth of what would allow for the 100-year exchange of real estate, however, there is virtually no rental stock, and in the previous financial year there was a number of tenements under 300 built in Hungary. This is a real criticism of a government, just as the number of newly built homes is a measure of the economic activity of a government. This supply shortage is proven by the sublease prices in Budapest, where the average payment of 150-160 thousand HUF - and I stress that this is an average - between 110 and 150 thousand HUF, the rents of the apartments in Budapest, which are of average size and, if applicable, in the inner district, are fluctuating, plus rents. It can therefore be seen that there is a supply shortage that must be regulated by broadening the supply side, that the problem will have to be pulled out so that Hungarians can have access to leases that can later become their property within the framework of a state-supported home-building and rental-building programme, for a fraction of the market rents, with qualified Hungarian suppliers and qualified Hungarian contractors, so that we can resolve this amazing shortage on the supply side. What would be the result? Two very important things: on the one hand, the reduction of rent rates in the affected crisis zones, as housing crises are underway in Hungary today, and on the other hand, the fact that as few people as possible would need credit intermediaries in Hungary, and this would perhaps be the goal to be achieved, which means that it is not certain that so many people should jump into risky loans, but, where appropriate, the rent would be converted into a voluntary instalment for a rental, in the long term, it would be possible for that apartment to become their property. And we are not saying that anyone who does not have an apartment must at all costs acquire property, because Jobbik would be free to choose to do so for decades, but the choice must be given to people, and it is not a choice that an unregulated credit intermediary system, with partly regulated or incompletely regulated methods, without consumer protection supervision, can effectively rob people of people at a system level over a decade's horizon. Here, only a part of the elimination of the problem in the case of a brokerage fee, a 2-percent hat that was well one-and-a-half percent higher than the market average in the past, but that problem cannot be solved without the whole consumer protection system being acquired, it cannot be resolved that Hungarian people in their own country can get their own homes in such a way that they are guaranteed and assured that no bank, no financial institution, is able to rob them of them, and obviously this is also true of the mediation system that is based on them. It is therefore necessary to protect Hungarian citizens from the wild drivings of this system, from its excesses, and it would be a dog's duty to build the necessary consumer protection system. This is a weak step in this direction, which is why I see eligible elements of this package. The fact of the salad clearly makes it difficult to reach a decision on its support, but we encourage the governing parties that if five years of slow motion and tumbling have led practically to this point, they should speed up the pace, build up the consumer protection system and make sure that Hungarian citizens in Hungary can finally plan the future in real financial security, because our common goal could only be to plan this future in Hungary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-115	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP is not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed, and I will ask Mr Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[András Tállai says no.]] He doesn't want to comment. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on general rules for electronic administration and trust services until closure. The government referral is T/7392. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[16.20]] I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-17-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The draft law on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services can be divided into four main parts: the relationship between electronic administration bodies and the customer, the relationship between the electronic administration bodies, the transposition of the EU regulation on the renewal of electronic signatures, the establishment of general rules for trust services and the establishment of background rules, and the amendment of legislation to be amended within a short period of time necessary to enforce the above. During the spring session of 2015, the National Assembly adopted the new type of ID card, which can also be used for electronic administration, necessary for the so-called e-card. The new ID card, as an electronic administration tool, can be available to all citizens from 1 January, and it is essential that, in addition to the new tool, individual processes be renewed. The sections of the draft law on electronic administration will enter into force gradually. In order to ensure an adequate period of preparation, they will be applicable from 2017, but from 2018 it will be mandatory for the bodies to fully adapt to the new regulation. The rules in force primarily adapt the rules of electronic administration to the rules of administrative procedures, which can only be applied on a complementary basis in other procedures. Compared to this, the rules on electronic administration are pioneering for all types of proceedings - litigation, prosecutions, public affairs, tenders, and the rest - and even for public services. The law constitutes a framework which can be used in all proceedings to take account of the specificities of the procedure. Thus, the rules of electronic contact, the means of identification, the register of provisions, the rules of electronic administration triggering orality or the basic provisions of automatic decision-making procedures will be settled in a uniform manner. On the basis of the bill, electronic administration services will be renewed, the range of services to be provided by the state will be changed, and the customer gate will be safer, there will be wide opportunities for e-card and telephone administration. Dear House, It is important to point out that from 2016 on, businesses will be required to conduct electronic procedures in legal proceedings. The bill before us further improves this obligation, making it compulsory to have electronic contacts in all matters covered by the law, i.e. virtually all matters of a non-private nature of the economic organisation, starting in 2018. This is nothing new to these bodies; a significant proportion of their cases, such as tax matters, must be handled electronically, but the law provides the basis for creating a new, secure electronic tool for dealing with public affairs, a kind of company gate, which allows companies to communicate more easily to each other both to the authorities and, if they want, to speed up the process, avoiding disputes about delivery. Electronic administration is appropriate if not only the reception and sending takes place electronically, but also the electronic processing of internal affairs. It is essential that the interaction between the bodies responsible for electronic administration is also smoother. The new regulation is no longer about the relationship between the individual registers, but about the relationship between the individual bodies, not about the exchange of information, but about the exchange of information. Of course, the rules for the exchange of information should also provide for the possibility of automatic receipt of information, but provision should also be made for contact with primary and secondary sources of information. The regulation also takes into account that, if similar issues need to be addressed to more than one body, the conditions of the codecision procedure and their rules will be resolved. Dear House, Effective administration can only be achieved if individual developments do not affect each other in a far-reaching direction, but rather in each other's direction. If the compatibility of IT systems is not ensured, this may affect the whole administration and damage its benefits, which is why it is necessary to rethink the tasks of electronic administration supervision and to extend its powers. The new supervision will be the main guardian and coordinator of electronic administration, assist in the design of IT systems, issue guidelines, but at the same time will also monitor the bodies providing electronic administration. It may, by virtue of its powers of control, require the body to comply with the rules of the law, oblige it to establish a plan of measures, fine it and even turn it to the public. Dear House, The e-signatures were provided for in the 1999/93 European Directive. In most Member States, legislation on e-signatures was adopted on this basis, including in Hungary. The Directive was replaced in 2014 by a Regulation on electronic identification and trust services related to electronic transactions in the internal market. The gradual entry into force of this will continuously lead to the adoption of detailed rules at regulation level and harmonisation of legislation. Technically, Member States should repeal most of their e-signature rules, as the text of the Regulation and the implementing rules are directly and compulsory. This Regulation repeals the EU Directive with effect from 1 July 2016 and the provisions of this new Regulation should apply from the same date. This new Regulation aims to provide a comprehensive EU framework for the security and reliability of electronic transactions. This also covers eGovernment solutions and electronic security solutions used by market participants. The above objective is to be achieved by two different instruments in the eIDAS Regulation. On the one hand, the electronic identification used for online services is based on the principles of volunteering and mutual recognition in the Member States, i.e. a Member State is free to decide whether to notify all its electronic identification systems used in the Member State to the Commission, but if it announces this system, then all other Member States are obliged to recognise it, those who have made a similar notification. More specifically, this recognition covers the online access of services provided by public administrations using the notified system within the Member State. In this context, Member States' regulatory freedom remains essentially intact despite the regulatory level of the regulation. Another instrument of the Regulation is the EU framework for trust services. Here, on the basis of certain types of services already developed in connection with electronic signatures, the concept of more general trust services and the EU regime for the supervision of such services, including the distinction between qualified and non-qualified services, is defined. The eIDAS Regulation also makes a detailed list of some trust services and assigns legal effects to certain trust services at EU level. Unlike identification, however, the EU framework for trust services also significantly determines the scope for domestic regulation. As a result of the regulation form and the extensive Hungarian electronic signature regulations in force, the task determining the transposition is the deregulation obligation, but on the other hand, it is also necessary to identify the provisions needed for the implementation of the eIDAS Regulation. In view of the above, this bill seeks to preserve the provisions of the existing e-signatures Act and existing regulatory practice so as to adapt this system to the structure and concepts of the new EU regulation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-117	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[16.30]]
u2015-11-17-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Article XXVI of the Fundamental Law It states that, in order to improve the efficiency of its operation, the quality of public services, the transparency of public affairs and the promotion of equal opportunities, the State will seek to implement new technical solutions and the results of science. In fact, with the sentence of the Constitution quoted above, we have committed ourselves to using the results of technological progress to modernise public administration and reduce bureaucracy in order to facilitate the lives of citizens. The one in front of us, T/7392. The purpose of the legislative proposal is therefore to establish the scope of Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In line with the technical development of the 20th century, the extension of electronic administration, the creation of the necessary legal conditions and the legal basis for technical developments, and the introduction of electronic administration by public and non-public bodies providing a wide range of clients' administration services on a uniform basis. In the Europe 2002 Action Plan, the European Commission defined the 20 most frequently used electronic services for measuring the spread of electronic public services and defined the characteristics of their level of development. In order to keep up with the countries of Europe not only in football, the bill sets out the obligations of the body responsible for electronic administration in order to achieve the highest possible level of development. On the basis of the standard text, the electronic administration body shall be obliged to operate an electronic administration information system which ensures at least the consultation of the customer's administrative provisions, the possibility of processing through a personalised interface, the use by a customer of electronic identification solutions governed by law, the delivery by means of a secure service as defined in the Government's decree, the receipt of messages addressed to it, the prompt confirmation of receipt by the customer of the documents by electronic means, the processing of electronic documents with at least an electronic signature and an electronic stamp in accordance with at least enhanced administrative requirements, the production of documents certified under this law, the service of documents to be delivered to the customer and, as a main rule, the electronic payment of the charges payable for the procedure. At this point, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the bill refers to the right to electronic administration as the birthright of customer rights guaranteed by the law. This right extends to the possibility for the client to make any statement by electronic means or to carry out a suitable procedural act by electronic means before the bodies covered by the law. Exemptions may be granted by law or by government decree only if the personal presence of the client or the authenticity of a document cannot be replaced otherwise. I think it is a very good solution for the bill to replace as widely as possible the electronic administration rules laid down in the various procedural laws. Accordingly, the bill highlights the good solutions contained in individual procedures, such as the rules on the electronic transmission of the minutes of civil proceedings, and generally regulates them as a solution for all procedures and for electronic administration. I would like to highlight the requirement for technological neutrality of the right to electronic administration, among the quasi-essential principles. No body or legislation may impose a technical requirement for electronic administration that would lead to an additional obligation beyond the creation of the technical conditions generally available to customers or the acquisition of the necessary assets in all circumstances. The bill exempts the client from adverse legal consequences on a guarantee basis if, in the absence of its own fault, the electronic administration body fails to process the case electronically, including where a paper-based form is required, it cannot be downloaded and completed electronically. The bill also states that the organisations providing electronic administration are not enough to electronicise their procedures only mechanically, without clarifying the internal context of the administration, but also have to think about it, optimize it, and choose a customer-friendly solution that supports the whole process of administration. In this context, it should be pointed out that the bill explicitly supports and allows the customer to obtain the necessary data for the administration by means of an interactive, step-by-step application, even in the case of a legal provision reaching a form, but so that the client himself has sufficient evidence of the data provided. Similarly, the bill provides for the possibility of an automated decision-making procedure where, in the course of electronic administration, the client takes the initiative to deal with a matter that does not require consideration and where the information necessary for the decision is available at the time of the initiation of the case. The bill also provides for automatic decision-making in ex officio procedures, thus excluding the human factor in these cases. In order to achieve the objectives set out, the bill also includes the relations between the civil and electronic administration body and the body responsible for supervising electronic administration, the interaction between the bodies responsible for electronic administration, the rules for the renewal of interoperability, the legal provisions necessary for the transposition of the eIDAS Regulation and the rules on electronic and paper documents. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, if you are committed to the XXI. In addition to the modern Hungarian administration of the century, support the bill before us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-17-119	I now give the floor to Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-11-17-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The draft law on general rules for electronic administration and trust services aims to provide a legislative framework for an important and currently poorly regulated area. In this respect, we consider it useful and forward-looking for further development. However, I would like to remind the Honourable Parliament that the Hungarian Socialist Party, during its period of government, has put great emphasis on the dissemination of electronic administration and communication, and on the development of technical solutions for safe identification. In this context, it established the central electronic service system, which included an electronic government backbone network linking more than 1700 administrative institutional sites, a customer gate for identifying citizens, a government portal for providing information to citizens. For this purpose, the legislative framework is set out in Article CXL of 2004 on general rules for administrative procedures and services. It was established by law and then by the 2009 LX on electronic public service. Law extended the scope of electronic administration to areas beyond public administration. All of this served to achieve the level of use that citizens and businesses should already learn to use. At the time of the change of government in 2010, the number of users of the customer gate was around one million and over 32 million times during its existence the electronic service of a public administration was used. 220 administrative offices, all notary offices exercising authority and, through this, the municipality joined the central system by means of an official gate. 80 percent of central government administrations had already had a so-called office gate, which ensured electronic data exchange between them, removing the burden of follow-up on the shoulders of citizens. In 2009, the electronic administration of public services started to be integrated into the system. I felt it was necessary to mention this above all in order to make it clear that the MSZP government, which was leaving in 2010, provided an electronic service network that worked well and was worthy of further development in an orderly legislative framework. However, the Fidesz government has thrown out the rules that promote functionality and distribution, and it has thrown in the trash a significant part of the development, without any basic or practical necessity. [[16.40]] It's been repressed for years, and this area has evolved. Energy has gone off to flashes, land grabbing, and, in essence, the EU support has once again created insular systems that are not able to talk to each other in the absence of appropriate coordination. Fidesz has wasted years and billions, while in the last year it has come up with the development and introduction of new systems, but it continues to be systemic and without effective coordination. The Parliament is discussing the rules of electronic procedure before the court in civil matters. This is a solution other than the proposal we are discussing here, and T/6410 is currently under negotiation. of which 107. §2 is still in the Ket. It intends to amend its rules without having regard to this draft. The Parliament recently adopted the rules on the implementation of the e-card, which should be amended again in this draft. So there is no record of systematic construction, design, and this is a waste of all knowledge and resources in both spiritual and material terms. In the area of electronic administration and communication, more intensive, quality of life-enhancing use is not supported by rules that have been adopted, entered into force or not yet in force. Although the intention to retain and build on certain elements of the previously matured regulation can be seen in some well-developed parts of the proposal, the coherence between the provisions and the systemicity of the construction is lacking. Certain chapters of the proposal contain specific well-defined information and technical requirements, which can be followed by procedures. Among these parts, however, the common goal is to improve the quality of the service and increase its efficiency will be lost due to editing and wording errors. It seems as if the author had placed three separate laws just side by side, and he had put the whole set of principles, which were meaningless, and, in a large part, an unnecessary and even particularly harmful set of interpretation provisions, but he did not create consistency. Basically, it is questionable why it is necessary to combine three, otherwise more meaningful, more efficient, controlled areas into such an unfortunate salad. If there were a sensible regulation on customer rights and obligations in electronic administration, rules for cooperation between different public and public service bodies and a so-called trust services, much clearer and more manageable regulation could have been put in place, the benefits would have been greater. Given its content, the question arises as to whether the system will be technically operational. The results of the impact assessment for the proposal, if any, were not published on the government website. However, the 2010 CXXXI on social participation in the preparation of legislation. Law 8. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 makes the publication of the Impact Assessment Summary mandatory. Another significant deficiency of the bill is that Article 90 does not apply. In paragraph 1 of this Article, the cardinal provision shall be extended only to the designation of the function. Based on the fundamentality requirement of the Fundamental Law, not only the name of the function, but also the essential content of the function must be included in a fundamental rule. In this way, this proposal should address much more issues than the one indicated. Just to illustrate, the 80th. § 4 registration of trust service providers, Article 91 Pursuant to point (c) of paragraph 1 of the Act on general rules for the taking up and pursuit of service activities, the performance of its tasks and so on. If the rapporteur does not correct this, we believe that the proposal is contrary to the Fundamental Law. This bill is not progressing with age. Through the services provided under the proposal, the state of pre-destruction situation in 2011 is once again achieved by the current government. However, further development of systems that have already been in place would have made it possible to achieve much higher results with a larger budget expenditure. In the last five years, the development of infocommunication services has brought about changes that are not taken into account in the bill at all. It must be recognised that the Internet is the same utility as electricity, gas, water supply, transport infrastructure, railways and highways. In view of this, it is necessary to strengthen the nature of the public service provider, taking into account new platforms and user habits. The bill is stuck at the level of technical development of the first decade of the millennium and does not take into account changed user habits due to the flexible deployment of the latest technical tools, especially smartphones. It should be a principle that, at the most, you do not have to go to the customer service or government window once or for many cases. From the start of the case to the receipt of the payment decision and the decision made by the Office, the matter can be dealt with from home, not just from home, but from anywhere, or during movement. Real-time mobile applications should be developed to manage administrative matters easily. Mobile applications also make the work of adjutants more efficient, more direct, especially in backward areas, and in the field of help for those without Internet access. The project-like management of cases launched, in particular in the case of cases involving several public administrations, should be carried out through a group-work application or the setting up of a Facebook-like group, where access to the group is granted to the stakeholders, administrators, and other relevant participants. In addition, the possibility of handling PCs should be maintained, even by running mobile applications on PC, especially in cases where annexes, such as scanned documents, photos and maps, need to be attached. In conclusion, the drafting of the bill is unacceptably low-quality, arbitraryly thrown together, otherwise perhaps useful. Due to careless legislation, some of the elements of the Fundamental Law are in our opinion based on yesterday, and should help today and tomorrow. Therefore, even though it contains forward-looking rules and the regulation of the territory is essential, it is unacceptable for the Hungarian Socialist Party in its present form. Only after significant improvements and amendments can it be the subject of actual debate, to which we are naturally open, and we propose withdrawing the draft law and presenting it as three sensible legislative proposals after due revision. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-17-121	I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-17-122	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/7392 on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. The purpose of the 21st draft law is to: In line with the technical development of the 20th century, the extension of electronic administration, the creation of a legal basis for the necessary legal conditions and technical improvements, and the pressure on electronic handling by public and non-state bodies providing a wide range of clients' administration services on a uniform basis. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the eEurope 2002 Action Plan, the European Commission sets out the 20 most frequently used electronic services to measure the spread of electronic public services and defined the characteristics of their levels of development. On this basis, e-administration levels can be summarised below. Level one: the electronic means of providing information, such as information on the registration time and the method of administration on a Ministry's website. Level two: the link in this direction, i.e. when the forms for administration can be downloaded electronically. At the third level, interactivity is displayed, i.e. forms can be downloaded online, including authentication. [[16.50]] But this level does not allow the payment of fees, the customer's one-off appearance is still necessary. On the fourth level, which is marked by a transaction name, the entire operation is electronized, including the deduction of fees. In recent times, the fifth level, personalisation, has appeared for certain services, which allows for certain automation, for example, if the government body is available from other administrative sources, the specific data of the citizen are already indicated in the personalised form and the citizens do not need to re-submit them. Ladies and Gentlemen, We consider it particularly important that IT developments take place at an appropriate level and in a uniform system. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-123	I give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-17-124	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, How was administration done, say, 20-25-30 years ago? If an uncle or an aunt in a village thinks they need to take care of their business, she goes to the county office to do business there. Get on the train, buy your train ticket, travel for an hour, then take the local flight, then get there, and see that there's no customer reception, and then come back the next day. If he had time and freedom, then the next day he re-coated, re-entered the crowd, and then he knew what else he should have taken with him, what data and what documents he had to file in order to deal with his case. He went home again, and the next week, writing down when there was a customer bet, how it would turn out, went back to the office again, and at that point he might have been able to submit his submission, perhaps he was able to start the administration that was in his best interest at the moment. Then, within a 30-day deadline, the office called for a deficiency - in good case within 30 days - and then, after sending it in, perhaps within 60 or 90 days, it was in its hands, or that I.D., that official certificate, and the rest, which it was about to arrange. Well, that's what the administration looked like 20, 25, 30 years ago. There have been great changes since then. We can talk about almost as much change as we did when we moved to paper-based administration. At one time, judges were even given a verbal declaration of judgment, and then they had to act as they did. Then, slowly, they had to switch to putting all this on paper, so that it could be proved later, even decades later. We had to solve a lot of things, because it had to be written down, it had to be published, it had to be archived, it had to be preserved by posterity, so that it could be proved later. In the last decade and a half, we are facing similar big changes, and similar changes as they were at the time. In some cases, this has been published for thousands of years, and in some cases the written administration is only 100-200 years old. In Hungary, the written administration is practically the same age as the founding of the state. Now we're replacing this with electronic administration. Obviously, there were problems in the past, thousands and hundreds of years ago, when they switched from oral to written, and so there are problems now. But I'll deal with this later. Electronic administration has appeared, and as electronic administration has developed in Hungary and anywhere in the world, this has taken various steps and has been constantly published. What were they able to do at the beginning? When he had a website for an official body, he was able to specify when there was an opening time, what was the time of the customer reception, what was the order of the customer reception, who the administrator was, who he could turn to, or what information he could write out to bring with him to the administration. So that was the first step. In the second step, downloadable forms were published when you didn't have to go to the office to get a form, but you already downloaded it at home, printed it, and already entered the completed form. Then later, as this progressed, these forms could be filled in and not only downloaded, but they could be typed in and sent to the authority with one click. Then this was followed by the fact that a full operation could be completed electronically. It was also an important stage of this - in the beginning I forgot to say that the peasant uncle who had travelled from the village was sent to the post office to buy a tax stamp of 100 HUF or 1000 HUF - that the purchase of the tax stamp could be saved, as it is also part of the full administration that we can pay the levy. So the entire operation is electronized. And as a fifth step, personalization has appeared in the electronic procedure, the point of which is that, after someone has registered through the customer gate, from the time they submit a request and want to fill out a form, the system will automatically do so on its own account, as it recognises who communicates with the server, who has logged in at the client gate, and who will enter all known data, so it doesn't have to do that either. It is obviously in the interests of both the European Union and Hungary, but also of all other countries, that this system should be implemented as soon as possible. And part of this new legislation, this bill that lies before us, deals with forcing people, both natural persons, economic operators and public authorities, to use electronic administration as often as possible and in the greatest possible way. In the case of natural persons, the law states that only the law can oblige natural persons to act under electronic procedures. How is this happening today? The peasant uncle who had taken the train to the county seat to do business, now this man, who had grown 15 years older, tells his granddaughter to take out his laptop and open it, or his smartphone, and help him with the administration. These people can now ask the granddaughter, even the granddaughter of elementary school, because they are much better at this and will help. If the person is already logged in at the client's door, the granddaughter will be able to help with the administration. But, as I said, it is very important that only legislation can force individuals, natural persons, to use electronic administration. And the law also states that the power of attorney must also be recognised by the system and, in some cases, there is, in many cases, compulsory representation of a lawyer, and that this should also be used. The question of entities is the following. It is very interesting that some experts who have dealt with this can see a link between GDP growth and the transition to electronic administration, electronic development. This is very interesting, and they claim that the spread of infocommunications tools and services clearly causes economic growth in the country in question and even increases employment. So it is good from this point of view too, because the system is very effective, the services are transparent, and it creates a more advantageous situation in all respects, since the whole system will be more comfortable, simpler, cheaper and more efficient for the State, more efficient for the company and more efficient for the whole system. By doing so, the competitiveness of the business organisation will also increase, as the time spent on administrative administration will be much less, the time spent on administration will be transferred to completely different tasks, in addition to reducing the burden of paper-based administration, environmental planning, not to mention filing, as we know how many files need to be discussed in some bodies. The administration will not be fixed, will not be time-bound; all these will be positive in any way. The administration will be simpler and faster. The use of e-administration effectively indirectly strengthens the services in IT preparedness, as the development of machines, which is available throughout the country, will only be able to connect to the e-administration system. So, in this respect, it has a developmental effect in any way. [[17.00]] The situation is much simpler with the authorities, because if we make a law there, and in this law we will require him to use the electronic system, then obviously, if the Parliament makes the law, they can do nothing else, this must be used. The legislation requires who should use it in the future. It is clear that public administrations, local authorities, courts, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, prosecutors, notaries, bailiffs, public bodies and even utility service providers will issue invoices for at least 150 thousand consumers, or any other body that voluntarily undertakes to do so. We can also see from this that, in practice, in almost all areas of public administration, we will see the possibility of electronic administration in the future. The fact that this is improving across the country, and this legislation, we trust, will bring this development with it, does not mean that this transition is entirely smooth. After all, this transition is a problem. Finding forums on the Internet that are critical of e-administration. I'd like to make a few comments out of that. For example, when the forumist says that I have been unable to enter through the customer gate for three days. Does it work for you guys? "You," he asks. Or someone says, "The line of documents, the bureaucracy of the office, has been making our lives miserable for decades, even centuries. We expected a breakthrough in technical progress to be able to handle our affairs electronically, from our comfortable living room, thus saving us a lot of time and energy. The conditions are also given, but this story is not as simple in Hungary.. Other comment:. I have also been given an appointment for a day when the document office was not even open. These are also such mistakes. Another comment:, My problem is that I can't do anything about it. The following:. the customer gate for the citizen as it is is, is useless. Very enthusiastic, determined webelit can only navigate its infinitely complicated surfaces. , Next comment:, I am unable to find my way through a web administration system developed from billions of people. Then most potential users probably won't be able to find out. After login, link stream, kb. 200 types of clicking, the possibility of moving forward is completely out of line, about It took me half an hour to figure out where to move on. This is also a criticism on the other hand. As a result of the criticisms, the Data Protection Commissioner has also examined in this area whether, indeed, the data cannot be entered into unauthorized hands, as there have been multiple malfunctions at the customer's door. He found in his report that it was the fault of the IT system. And what did it do? The error was mainly related to the confirmations. One tenth of those who made use of this service did not receive a confirmation, and two percent received confirmations to another. This phenomenon has been repeated several times. Good, natural, there are flaws with all systems, we hope that they will be completely eliminated sooner or later. There's one more thing I want to talk to you about. When we heard here the President of the National Court Office, President Hando Tünde, I also indicated what might be a problem when we are trying to deal with an official matter electronically. In that case, we are often faced with the problem that certain programs do not take the system that we have on the computer, as required by the system itself. Unfortunately, the problem here is that there are different programmes, different programs must be used on different administration platforms. Unification of this would also be the right thing to do. In that case, electronic administration would be much easier, it would not mean annoyance and hours of programme downloads, should be called for a programmer or professional help, because we do not know the program yet. Where appropriate, within an organisation, such as the court, the company court, the association registration, the association amendment entry, they all require different programmes from each other. This is very, very annoying. In the event that we pay attention to this in the e-administration that the same programs could run everything, it would certainly make it very easy for the users to do their job. I think we're definitely going in this direction. Electronic administration will become almost exclusive in Hungary within decades, not in decades, so this is where the future is. We hope that this law will also bring forward the possibility that the electronic register will give us. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-125	The LMP faction is not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking you if there's any further intention to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás if he wishes to answer. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by MEPs József Varga, Gyula Budai, Imre Vas, Répássy, László B. Nagy, Katalin Csöbör, János Pócs and László Vigh and Alpár Gyopáros T/7408. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-17-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. in the general debate of the bill on the amendment of the law, I think that we are correcting something very important. In the autumn of 2014, we had an amendment to the mayor's salary and fees. We believe that the events and signals of the past period, the conversations with the mayors, have moved us to settle their wages fairly. I think that we now have a proposal that invites the party on all sides of the horseshoe to support this proposal. I'll tell you why. Several proposals have already been made by the opposition, but those proposals, I think, may not have reflected the work that mayors have put on the table. If we're talking about local government, I think it's a success sector. I can't believe what mayors, congressmen, civil society organisations in the settlements are doing to help the people there. And that's very right. Of the 3155 municipalities, there are some 2809 villages, and those who are now affected by this bill, the settlement under the number of 1,500, have 2139 of them. Mayors are responsible for the management and development of settlements. In this, I can see that many mayors have achieved very excellent results, if we just use my narrower country, Zala County. The local government system has changed greatly, as there has been a huge shortage in recent years, and the state has decided to take some 1200 billion away from the municipalities, which is the work of the mayors, we must admit, has made it very difficult. Also, the municipalities that have not been indebted have received a little reward money in recent years. Regardless of whether or not the mayors belong to the school because we've assigned it to the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, I see the mayors are still paying attention to schools operating in their settlement. [[17.10]] The operation of kindergartens is considered very important. It was a very big debate when we turned the institutions from the Circuit Society into common offices, there was a very big debate, and I think that we did the right thing when we transformed them - these debates took place. There are huge differences between settlements, even in the same number of souls. When it came to a proposal from the opposition to give this amount of money under 100 people, between 100 and 500 people, we said that it might not be right, because in a settlement of 800 people there may be no school, kindergarten, GP, protective service, but there is such a small settlement that at least one of these institutions is operated, and that means that the work of the mayors is much bigger. We are proposing in this law that the salaries, remuneration and conflicts of interest of mayors be increased by about 30 percent, and that the proposal abolishes any conflict of interest. That would mean that if the mayor does extra work, plus a job, I think about public employment here, and I could tell you, there are a lot of mayors running sports associations, organizing a civil society organization, participating in LEADER, and a lot of other things that could be added to this. So, if you look at the bill, it would not only be the 30 percent increase in wages, but in fact, it could also receive a salary from an extra commission. The reason I think this proposal is good is because the board here can vary. So the board sees, the body of representatives, whether their mayor does everything for the settlement, works well, and it can actually be a positive thing if they tell him that we're giving him a 10-percent pay supplement now, and that if you work well, we'll add ten more. Or maybe they're telling a mayor who's working right now that you've already put so much on the table that we're gonna say 30 percent more on the payroll. I believe that this proposal has been made because we have received a lot of signals, a lot of mayors have contacted me and my fellow Members. We felt that the time had come to raise these wages with honor and dignity, which are now a little low in settlements under 1500. Again, if you add another commission to the 30 percent increase in wages, I think that it is fair to settle the wages of mayors of small settlements. This means that the first people of the settlements can receive a decent salary from the next period. That is all I wanted to say before me, and I look forward to the opposition and keynote speakers, and, of course, then I wish to answer the questions that have been raised. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-127	I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he's signaling. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2015-11-17-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As the author said, more than 2100 mayors or local governments may report or make changes to the proposed bill. The bill has basically two main strands, one of which is the mayor's salary, full-time or social mayor's salary, possible 30 percent increase in fees and changes in the rules of conflict of interest for mayors. The rules on conflicts of interest are also visible on two lines, since the rules on conflicts of interest ensure, on the one hand, that small town mayors, if any, may actually receive an extra income within the framework of public employment, and, if their budget does not otherwise allow for an increase in income, this could be a solution. On the other hand, in the case of mayors of settlements under 3000 inhabitants, the proposal lays down synonymous rules of conflict of interest such as, or equivalent to, conflicts of interest, so as to enable mayors of settlements who carry out other economic activities in addition to their full-time or social tasks to continue their original occupation. The government supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-129	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-17-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. During the debate of the Act, the Government and Parliament discussed several times the issue of mayors' salaries, which, if you will, resulted in a reduction in the remuneration of small-scale mayors. According to the Parliament's decision, the mayor's salary is paid by the Mötv. it is included and placed within a different conceptual framework compared to the previous rule. Previously, instead of setting a salary differentiated on the basis of the population and, in part, giving the bodies discretion, Mötv. specify the mayor's salary for the municipalities, depending on the number of inhabitants. The legislation in force is therefore based on the concept of the legislator. After the 2014 municipal elections, salaries in settlements with the population of 1,500 and below fell, and today we may all realize that this is inappropriate, unfair to those who often do superhuman work. The proposed amendment therefore provides for the possibility for the body of representatives to increase the salary of the full-time mayor by up to 30 per cent of the local government's own revenue from the salary specified in the law in the indicated categories of settlement. The amendment would also allow mayors with a social mandate to increase the fees of mayors with a social mandate of 1,500 inhabitants or less. At this point, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to consider that a 30% increase of this kind could be granted by the state at the expense of the central budget. I will present my amendment to this. In the most disadvantaged areas, such is my district, because in some municipalities, municipalities have virtually no or very little revenue. This does not mean, however, that there is less work to be done - indeed. Despite the fact that they have the right job or have a lot of work to do, they cannot produce the increase in wages. At the same time, we must recognise that it is a regular task for small town mayors, as my fellow Member has said, to carry out organisation tasks in relation to public employment. To this end, in order for these tasks to be carried out successfully, it is necessary to involve mayors in carrying out tasks related to public employment. In addition to moral recognition, the purpose of the legislative amendment proposal is to give financial recognition to the mayors of smaller settlements in proportion to their work with public employment. However, it is essential, as the Secretary of State has said, to examine conflict of interest rules. The Parliament has recently adopted a number of proposals that have amended the rules on conflicts of interest for representatives of local governments and mayors, such as the Mötv. 72. Between paragraphs 1 and 2 of § 1 there is a contradiction that awaits resolution and resolution. Consequently, the aim is to restore the former legislation, namely the ban on the establishment of a relationship for other work in relation to the full-time mayors of settlements with more than 3000 inhabitants. The proposal also extends the procedure for judicial supervision of the Government Office in two cases: on the one hand, in the case of a decision of discretion, in the examination of the legality of the decision-making procedure and, on the other hand, in the case of an infringement of legislation for the benefit of the employee. With this amendment, we will give the Government Office the opportunity to take action against municipal decisions that include infringement of the law for the benefit of the employee. [[17.20]] Between paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Decision and paragraphs 2 of this Decision, there is a contradiction that is awaiting resolution and resolution. Consequently, the aim is to restore the former legislation, namely the ban on the establishment of a relationship for other work in relation to the full-time mayors of settlements with more than 3000 inhabitants. The proposal also extends the procedure for judicial supervision of the Government Office in two cases: on the one hand, in the case of a decision of discretion, in the examination of the legality of the decision-making procedure and, on the other hand, in the case of an infringement of legislation for the benefit of the employee. With this amendment, we will give the Government Office the opportunity to take action against municipal decisions that include infringement of the law for the benefit of the employee.(17.20) The bill in question is aimed directly at reducing cases of mayor conflicts of interest, while at the same time providing mayors of small settlements with the opportunity to carry out other income activities in addition to their mandate. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I must say that I also see the recognition of the elected office in a worthy increase in salaries. I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-17-131	I now give the floor to Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-11-17-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, He's starting to go a little crazy when we're discussing the local government law, because there's no longer a month when we don't have to talk about it in parliament in some way, and now every two weeks, because two weeks ago, the local government law was discussed in connection with local government offices. There is always something where conflict of interest rules need to be amended, where deadlines have to be pushed, because the deadlines under the original law could not be kept, where the Constitutional Court has to comply, as I have just said, because the authorities should have been consulted on matters which concern them in the first place. The last time we saw this was the establishment of local government offices. So there's always something that puts the municipal law before Parliament and the municipalities need to be dealt with. This certainly tells me one thing, my fellow Members: perhaps you have been too hasty and you have been able to create a law in which there has been no consensus with regard to the mayors and the bodies of the local authorities. There is a need for continuous cosmetic treatment of this law, which is obviously - you can see that - not very fortunate. Indeed, we have before us again the amendment of the municipal law. We see in three parts the essence of the amendment. On the one hand, there is an amendment to the legality supervision procedure. The judicial supervision procedure of government offices shall also cover the case where the labour or public service dispute takes place, provided that the infringement is in the benefit of the worker. This, I think, is eligible for all of us. The other amendment concerns rules on conflicts of interest. We do see that the bill retains conflict of interest rules for mayors, but it expands the exceptions. Thus, from now on, the mayors can carry out organizational tasks related to public employment. We have two problems with that. One is that, in fact, the mayor has already performed these tasks, they have only done them out of necessity, we must say, because, as all our fellow Members have said, the mayors are actually doing a great deal of work, civil servants, municipal operators, firefighters, applicants, and, moreover, they have indeed had to deal with the provision of public employment. They've worked it out so far. Our problem is obviously due to the fact that, knowing the government's money distribution policy, most settlements, especially small settlements, have to resort to additional resources to preserve their operation. I don't know who, perhaps my fellow Member Vigh, said how well the municipalities are now operating. If this were to work so well, we would not really find that these settlements would have to apply for continuous extra support... [[László Vigh's intervention.]] Let's take a look. A significant part of the 2300 settlements, Congressman. [[Laszlo Vigh: No, no!]] Yes, yes! Take a look. So if I look at the government's money distribution policy, we see that here too, the mayors of the settlements who are obviously connected to Fidesz in some way. So let us say that we do not find it too fortunate that government agencies can give mayors a mandate to carry out tasks related to public employment, because then there will be good mayors and bad mayors again, and there will be mayors who will fulfill the government's task, then those who fail to meet the government's expectations, intentions, will not receive such assignments. I'll tell you one more time, I'm afraid the mayors are going to have to perform these tasks now. It is therefore a false thing to say that mayors can receive such assignments, since I repeat, this task is being carried out, and I do not see it as ensuring that all mayors could otherwise receive such a mandate regardless of party policy. It is here that the reduction of conflicts of interest should also be applied if, under previous rules, the mayor already has a excluded mandate, i.e. it would be incompatible under the current rules. The question arises: who are the mayors who already have such an assignment? But perhaps the question is not who such mayors are, but rather the principle that this is already working. How is this possible when we have not yet adopted any proposals or amendments in this regard? There are, therefore, mayors who have this kind of mandate, because this is what the bill asks for absolution. The third amendment concerns the payment of mayors. I think that we are all united in that, and I think we have all, several times in opposition parties, made changes to raise the incomes of small-town mayors, because they are performing a serious task. The proposal now is that the salary of the mayors of the settlements under 1500 may be increased by 30 percent by the body of representatives. Here's the thing: it's a source of its own. We were pleased to hear Mr Vitányi's proposal for a future amendment, which would consider that small settlements should not have to spend this money on their own, but that the state should provide this resource. You know, I would like to quote only the Fidesz mayor of Tab, who, by the way, at the TÖOSZ Forum, said that it is very difficult for settlements of less than 1500 people to manage this money. It's like when they give me the opportunity to be the owner of Chelsea or Juventus football, but they don't give me the money to buy it anyway. It's a little shady that settlements who are in a really difficult situation are then farming them. You say that the municipalities are in a great position, because they have taken away their debt, they have taken away their task. But they also took your source, fellow Members. They've taken their sources, and they're giving them extra responsibilities. Plus tasks, because they have to manage the financing of cash social benefits. They didn't give me enough money for that either. So don't say that everything is so beautiful and so good, because then the smaller settlements probably wouldn't resort to you for extra support, but, I suppose, they would solve their daily operation on their own income. In that, I think we all agree that the mayors, whether it be a big city, a small town, a medium town, a small town, play a very important role everywhere in the life of a settlement and in the municipal system itself. After all, the mayors are the number one leaders of the settlements, or the politicians of the larger settlements, and have high public confidence, since they are legally elected directly by the settlement. So I think that the recognition of their work is the trust that the settlement gives them in a legitimate election. The vast majority of mayors, like the majority of the body of representatives, especially in small settlements, are not party-bound, are more independent local politicians. I think that's where the problem is. When previous regulations were adopted in 2014, they would not have been able to encourage them to support you in some way, so instead they chose the method of reducing their salaries. However, the social interest in the recognition of public work and the role of local politics justifies the status of mayor and its strengthening. At the new five-year municipal election cycle, the number of mayors' salaries will be introduced. I've been told that a number of times. At present, the salary and salary of the mayors are adapted to the basic salary of the Deputy State Secretary. I'm not saying that the TÖOSZ says that it actually created an unacceptablely low and humiliatingly bad situation among the mayors, because these mayors, as we have already said, you and I are working 24 hours a day. [[17 .30]] The TÖOSZ had a suggestion that he had sent it to you. [[Happy István: Mine has reached TÖOSZ.]] I'll tell you your proposal, Mr. Congressman, because you have your proposal here, but your proposal is far from the same as the TÖOSZ proposal, by the way. Yes, Congressman István Happy has also recognised that there is a problem with the mayor's salary, and he has tabled a proposal, and indeed he called for a 10-10 percent increase in the previous salaries, the Deputy State Secretary's salaries, but this has still not reached the level, Mr President - and confirm that even your proposal has not reached the level that was the mayor's salary before 2014. Your proposal didn't reach it either. [[Happy István: Which of my suggestions? 'Cause there's eight.]] The proposal for a 10% increase is to increase the basic salary by 10-10 percent. So he would have raised the income of the mayors from 20 to 30 percent of the settlements below 500 people, from 40 to 50 percent of the mayors of the settlements between 500 and 1500 people, and I'm not going to tell you any more. But that still hasn't reached it, although, by the way, your proposal, Congressman, hasn't even been discussed by the Justice Committee. Well, I'm glad you haven't said that yet, so it still exists somewhere, but we still don't know where it is. Then there was another Fidesz proposal, which was submitted on 9 July 2015 and also five or six Fidesz MEPs. It wasn't specifically about the mayor's salary, it was about the conflict of interest rules. By the way, the amendment proposed by István Happy was included in the amendment that closed the detailed debate, but the parliamentary hearing was halted for some reason here too. And then came this great proposal, which now I don't know whether you want to combine all sorts of proposals from the benches of Fidesz, the Happy Representative and the proposal of the former five Fidesz Members, but I would now include the proposal of István Vitányi, who would, by the way, urge the state to provide funds for the salaries of the mayors of small settlements. So, it's kind of ridiculous, but you guys can watch it, because it's been going on in Parliament for a year and a half, and there's still no perfect solution to that. There's still no perfect solution! Therefore, overall, if this bill remains so, I must say to you that we cannot support it. At a press conference in Lajos Kósa, he said that this is a debate paper in front of Parliament. He knows very well that it is a two-thirds law, so obviously it is necessary to support opposition parties. We will see Mr Vitányi's amendment, obviously we will also be making an amendment, and then we will see if we can find some consensus. What we find unacceptable is that instead of a fair increase in the fees of small-scale mayors in order to carry out the tasks, the mayors directly elected by the Fidesz electorate are in fact subject to some kind of government control, because these conflict of interest rules are, by the way, somewhat aimed at this. And what we are thinking is the introduction of an open thank-you money, which would otherwise give the mayors government mandates so that they would otherwise have a higher salary, which could relate to the performance of public tasks. That is all, my fellow Members, but it would be good to see what you want to see in relation to the municipal system, because we see that, by the way, you are always reaching into something, deadlines, conflicts of interest, salary, something always, but to say, so uniformly, that we should eliminate the municipal system, you should sweep everything under the state. Congressman, I liked to say the schools here, and I don't want to go along with it. What's happening now? Several settlements want their schools back. And why is that? Because it's still worth operating more than the state does. And even so, at least he sees and feels assured that that school will actually work. So don't paint the municipal system so nicely, as it is, because I'm not saying it, ask the Association of Municipal Governments that there are enough problems. Thank you.
u2015-11-17-133	I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-17-134	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Act adopted in December 2011 on the local governments of Hungary is the present T/7408. The amendments made to bill No 1 are justified by the experience that has arisen in practice and since its entry into force in the course of the entry into force and application of the law. Contrary to previous regulations, where the body of representatives had a certain degree of discretion in determining the mayor's salary, Mötv. He specifically fixed the mayor's salary. In settlements with 1,500 inhabitants and below, the new law meant a radical reduction in the mayor's salary. This bill provides for the possibility for the body of representatives to increase the salary of the full-time mayor by up to 30 per cent of the revenue of the local government in the settlement category of 1500 and below. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill would also allow mayors with a social mandate to increase the fees for mayors with a social mandate of 1,500 inhabitants or less. In a large part of the settlements with a population of 1500 or less, organizing public employment is also a regular task for the mayors. In order to ensure the efficient operation of this legal institution, it is appropriate to involve mayors in the organisation of public employment tasks, which should also be recognised financially. However, it is essential to amend the rules on conflicts of interest so that the mandate relating to public employment does not result in conflicts of interest with the mayor of the municipalities indicated. The conflict of interest rules in force in the election of municipal representatives and mayors in 2014 have been amended several times over the past period. After 12 October 2012, the National Assembly adopted a number of legislative proposals amending the rules on conflicts of interest for representatives of local governments and mayors, resulting in the adoption of Article 72 of the Act. § ( 1) and (2) of the Act created a contradiction, which was necessary to be lifted. Given that there was no intention of tightening the rules on conflicts of interest for mayors, it is therefore necessary to re-establish the previous regulation, which laid down a ban on the establishment of a relationship for other work against the main occupation mayor of the settlement with a population of more than 3 000 inhabitants. The rule of law on the supervision of decisions of local authorities has been established by the legislator in such a way as not to create parallel proceedings. Therefore, legality supervision does not, inter alia, cover municipal decisions where there is a labour or public service dispute. However, the current regime of legality supervision does not give the government office the opportunity to take action against municipal decisions when the decision contains a breach of law for the employee. The proposed regulation now aims to create this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on all this, please support the T/7408. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-135	I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[17.40]]
u2015-11-17-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a very specific bill here before us, just because a good part of it has been discussed by this House, you fellow Members, we have already discussed these, we have already had these debates, only part of it has now been supplemented, scissors have been scissored with an old new one, and now we have to go over it again here. One part of the bill, which is the new one, which concerns the mayor's salary, is everything else, so the question of conflict of interest rules and the extension of the judicial supervision procedure of the government office is already discussed. So I do not want to mention these two, that is to say, conflicts of interest and the government office, because I have already given you my opinion on this matter, and I would like to take a look at it, and this is a matter of discussion on our part, in fact, the explanatory statement put forward and read by my fellow Member Imre Vejkey has already been written, literally, a few months ago. Then it was the fate of this part at the time that, since it was supplemented with other things and other suggestions, it happened with regard to public employment that the mayors could receive extra benefits, because you did not support it - there was a great debate here in the House about this whole idea - so it was rejected, and with it all the other amendments to the Mötv. This additional salary for public employment has now been taken out and replaced by this new 30 percent increase. Three times myself, my fellow Members from LMP, perhaps twice, my socialist fellow Members, perhaps once, have tabled a proposal to increase the mayor's salary. For our part, we were much more generous than you - a little math - since the original law states that, say, in a settlement of less than 500 people, the mayor could receive only 20 percent of the $750,000 of the State Secretary's salary, we wanted to increase it to 30 percent, so we wanted to make a 50 percent increase compared to the original, and we wanted the mayors to prescribe it. Compared to this, you are proposing an increase of around 30% of the original basic wage, so this is a very narrow measure, let us say. And to extend the math lesson a little further, that means that 20 percent of the 750 thousand, which is currently included in the law, is a gross amount of HUF 150,000. We know, unfortunately, that in many settlements, especially small settlements, and especially under 500 people, the mayor's full-time salary cannot be managed by the individual settlements, and therefore the mayors can only take this assignment in a social mandate, so it can only be 50 percent, so only 50 percent of the 150,000, i.e. only 75 thousand forints, can be gross. Now, by the time this goes into your hands, by the time this gross becomes net, it's about 50,000 forints. That's why we said that many mayors make little more than their public employees in a month or so, and it's hard to keep a man's dignity in a way that if his subordinate earns practically as much, sometimes even more than he does himself. That is why we said that this unworthy situation should now be resolved. Now this net HUF 50,000 is thought to be increased by 30 percent. But do you think that small settlements that only employ a social mayor, because they cannot manage the full-time service from their own resources, will they be able to add this extra 30 percent? I think that is certainly not the case, because, yes, as we have heard, this is true, unfortunately, from two years ago, when we look back at the budgetary laws, we can see that the revenue sources of the settlements that they can spend freely have been significantly cut off, but the system of task financing is very limited in terms of state support for each task, and in addition, the scope of the individual settlements is virtually limited to or limited to the tax they collect, which is also limited because people in small settlements typically live from whom much more money can not be expected as a construction tax, land tax, there is nothing to pay. They can't pay their utility bills, so they still pay these local taxes? It's obviously impossible. They have hardly any local taxes, so they have little real income, there is nothing to pay - as we have heard - the representatives' fees, but I feel that it is a small problem, since it is typically the mayors who do 0-24 hours of service here. So I am now proposing what our fellow Member Vitányi has said, and let me say that we have tabled an amendment to this effect ourselves. If this proposal, which lies in front of us, were to be accepted by this amendment, it would not cost the Hungarian State one billion forints that this remuneration would be paid once and for all so that the Finance Act II. In point 1 of Annex II to the Treaty, the word "part of the general operating framework' is inserted that not only I do not know what costs relating to the office can be accounted for there as certain municipal management issues, but also the mayor's salary. In many cases, the mayor - we can't talk about anything else here, because there are no offices here as joint municipal offices - is the office itself, and since there is no term of office, when there is a customer reception, on Monday, Wednesday, on Sunday evening, if necessary, at the mayor's, he is the one who helps the individual residents a lot of the various clever and difficult things they do to the common municipal office, so they actually deserve this money, I think. So, yeah, I don't think it's devilish to spend this extra money on it by the government. I think that even from reserve funds that are already included in the budget, it would be possible to redistribute, but let me not say that the additional funds that have been voted on recently, such as the extra 60 billion forints for extraordinary government measures - I know, of course, it would be a different job for you to do in the budget, but perhaps a little money could come to this too - or the government has recently taken over the debt of the public TV, as a very generous gesture, almost 50 billion forints, if it had been just one billion more, we would have solved this situation again, and so on. So I think that, compared to the extent to which it would have social impact, this is a very small, small amount. I would not like to give any further examples now, since from the total amount of 16 000 billion, I think the Secretary of State can imagine that there is one or two billion more that could be broken down here and there, so let's solve it, I suggest. All in all, I can say that this is a fundamental law, and we will be supported by it if we see that this is not a law that is about to be smeared, that we have submitted something again, we have done something, and we have done nothing again, because we have made an unacceptable proposal before the House, and then the time will pass, but these five years will pass, which is this term for the mayors, and then for the next term, and then in 2019 we will solve or not solve this issue if there are any viable small settlements. But let us act as if we are actually playing legislation here in this House, taking these problems seriously, and with this amendment, whether it is what my fellow Member Vitány has submitted or what we have submitted, thereby enriching this proposal, we can vote for this fundamental part of the law, and we will vote for the rest anyway. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-137	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group is not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the informal speakers, which I give the floor to Mr István Happy.
u2015-11-17-138	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is a great pleasure for me that my old struggle is to return the wages of the mayors, especially the mayors of small settlements, so to speak, once again on the agenda in Parliament, and I hope now that it will be adopted. [[17.50]] I didn't count it exactly, but I've made about eight motions before this House. I still have four amendments, and even though my group asked me to be the author of this law, I did not accept them because I knew that I wanted to submit amendments. There are some things that I think are not entirely in this proposal as it should be. Unfortunately, according to the original law, we reduced the wages of small-town mayors, and for more than a year, small-town mayors have made significantly less than they had earned in the previous cycle. And this is not about those who have just been elected, there are significantly fewer who have been elected for the first time than who have always been elected back and forth for many years, since cycles. 'Cause the guy who just got elected, let's be honest, he knew why he was running. He was probably happy to get paid like that. However, those who have been in this position for several cycles, up to 25 years, were saddened to realize that from one month to the next, because of an election, because of the amendment of the law, they had lost tens of thousands of forints. And we haven't been able to solve that in the last year. I've been trying to change that since the adoption of the law. Well, now I hope we finally get to making some changes. In settlements of less than 500 people, this amendment will not restore the loss that mayors have suffered, but by reducing the conflict of interest rules and even getting a mandate from the municipality, for example, to perform or manage public works, I think that the wages they originally had could be returned. And what are the proposals that I think should be complemented by this bill? The first is that - and I've been saying this for a long time - wages have not only decreased in settlements below 1500 people. And the mayor also has a lot of work to do in the settlements over 1500 people, because let's say, in a settlement of 1501 people or 1502 people, let's not say that there are fewer jobs than there are in the settlement of 1499 people. There is nothing less work, there is no greater apparatus, there is no greater opportunity for that settlement, I think. So one of my suggestions is that, after the settlements have to manage this 30 percent of their budget anyway, so they don't get it from the state, so my proposal is not to limit it. The body of representatives and the mayor shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget. It is their responsibility to manage and manage this 30% for a wage increase. On the other hand, I have made another proposal, which I think would help the leaders of small settlements much more, and that the Parliament and the government have already listed the wage increase required by the law - I do not want to mention the paragraphs in which sections it provides - this is guaranteed by the Finance Act. I think this is much more important, because it is a huge burden on the settlements, as my opposition fellow Members have rightly said, that the wages of the mayors cannot be paid by virtually any norm, and yet it is guaranteed by law, so it must be paid. As little as it is, it has to be paid. In fact, there is a greater burden on the municipalities, and this is the salary of the sub-Mayors; in the small settlement, the wages of the sub-Mayors are a huge burden. The fact is that, for example, in my former settlement, where I was mayor for 20 years, the mayor who is now mayor was my deputy mayor for three cycles: he paid 10 thousand forints a month. Now the deputy mayor, after the law obliges him to give 70 percent of the mayor's salary, is paid more than 100 thousand forints. Now, this is hard to manage for a settlement, I think, and in addition, in a small settlement - not hurt, because there are certainly exceptions, and there are certain settlements where the deputy mayor works very, very much, but I think that mayors work significantly more than sub-Mayors, and indeed, they can perform this task for a more modest fee. Therefore, my second proposal is to remove the 70% lower limit required by the law, and let the municipalities decide how much they want to pay the deputy mayor from zero to 90 percent compared to the mayor's salary. I think these are important things. Of course, I know that it was in the law at the time because in large settlements where a sub-Mayor performs many, many more tasks, there were problems with the body of representatives because they didn't want to give the deputy mayor the salary that the mayor had in mind. But I don't think that's an example we can take from. It has to be assumed from the example that in small settlements they cannot manage this amount, nor can it be expected - no matter how many people say that the deputy mayor - let's say, a retired deputy mayor whose pension is 80 thousand forints and can receive 250 thousand forints as deputy mayor will not give up 250,000 forints, or I know an example that he would not give up why he would resign? He makes a living out of money, too. I think that this opportunity should be given back to the settlements, let the settlements, the municipalities decide how much respect they give their sub-Mayors. It is also very important that - sorry, I look at my note - most of the 3200 local government leaders have been elected several times. That is why it is important that we do not let this thing pass us by and that we definitely have the raise. As far as the mayor's salary is concerned, I think that a 30-percent wage increase up to 1500 people - once again, I think it is not enough, it can be abolished calmly - if we guarantee the statutory wage, then the 30 per cent can easily be managed by the municipalities. If they've managed to farm the mayor's wages so far, by the way. So that is, I must say, a thing like recognition of the settlement could be this 30 percent, if the original wage is guaranteed, the settlement can be a recognition of its work to a mayor. I still think it's important that, once again, every settlement can fall into this and be okay. Don't forget, fellow opposition Members, what they said after the elections last October. The loudest was the LMP, even the Prime Minister's, because we wanted to settle this mayor's wages several times, and suddenly after the elections, when we mentioned that we might have to settle this wrong move, that we reduced the mayor's wages, then all the opposition party's people said otherwise, but the loudest part of it was LMP, that we wanted to raise wages because the majority of mayors were fidesz. Now I'm glad to hear you found out that most of the mayors are independent. It's a very good thing. That was originally the case. The fact is, we would have liked to have fixed it then - I myself, again, several times - that we had made a mistake in the law at the time. I think that by this step, if my amendments are accepted, we can correct what we have ruined at the time, and we can put it right to ensure that in the settlements the amount of mayors' wages is guaranteed, and the amount that is now being paid to the mayors' wages, so to speak, from their own incomes, even from the little that is in a small settlement, can be used to develop settlements. So I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-139	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. [[18.00]]
u2015-11-17-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! I have listened to the arguments of my fellow Member. I think there's more holes in it, as they say. I'd like to start by saying that you can manage 130 percent of the wages from your own budget, but not 70 percent of the deputy mayor's wages, so it would be worth releasing. I think it's pretty much the same thing mathematically, if we do it with numbers. I'd say they can't manage any of them that easily. So, for our part, we can support any proposal when the government says that it simply settles these wages, just because of what you have said, that it has been spoiled - I'm sorry to put it so badly - then we have to correct this mistake, because the mayors, especially in such a small settlement, are simply community-organizing forces or community-sustaining forces, and this is in this respect regardless of whether someone is an independent mayor or a party mayor. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Therefore, we say that wages must, of course, also be settled in small settlements, because it was Fidesz' fault, Fidesz made a law, a legislative amendment that caused this tragic situation, and by far these mayors are not appreciated for the amount of work they do. But the solution you're proposing is not acceptable to us. Once again, on the one hand, because they can't manage 30% of their budget, let's say that's what the state is giving away from the state budget. The other is that the change of the conflict of interest rule with the intention that the Minister of the Interior or the Government will assign public employment to the mayors, and this is false. Let's be honest. You want to use this so that when there's a next election period, you can revolve the mayors, and they can tell you that you have to do what we say. Now why do we have to make a conflict of interest rule when this job is done by the mayors anyway, anyway, today too, because who else would do it in a small settlement? It would be much more honest and fairer if they did not want to solve this issue in such a way, in a tricky, deceitful way, but said that the salaries of these mayors should be increased, because they do a lot of work that is useful to the local community, useful to the nation. So if you, with the amendments, are redesigning this in such a way that the state budget will finance the mayors' salary increase, then we can support it in any way. If you want to do this in any way, as you have indicated, to dissolve 70% on the one hand, on the other hand, it also means that if you get at least 70, you can do anything from 0 to 90, and this may result in many mayors earn even less, or... [[Happy István: Deputy Mayor.]] Deputy Mayor, thank you very much for the addition. It is also a perverse argument that it will manage its own budget, since these settlements are typically or most of them currently facing a lot of financial problems and problems. So I'd like to see the mayor who stands in front of his own settlement and says that I'd ask you to raise my salary by 30 percent, so that it's from our budget. I don't think that's to be expected. You have taken so much money from the municipalities that these smaller settlements are virtually vegetating, and wherever you go to the countryside, you hear nothing else from the mayors, where they are facing problems, while your election promise was that the Fidesz government would come, and then the village's conservation power would be strengthened, or how much easier it would be to live in the village, to live, and how much easier it will be for both the mayors and the municipalities. If you're saying you did this now, tell the mayors, because you don't feel that way on the spot, no matter where we go from Zala to Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties in the country. So, to sum up, I think that the mistake that you have made should be corrected by fixing the salaries for the mayors of the settlement, and not in a sham way, so that they can be used politically for revolvers, because it is a tricky solution, but it should be done independently of everything, and they should not have to manage their own budgets, because I do not think that is expected in today's conditions in these settlements. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-17-141	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-11-17-142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could tell you a lot about who took and how much money from the municipalities, because between 2002-2014 I had the pleasure of being mayor of a small settlement in Nyírbogat. When you, dear Socialists, gave us the 50 percent wage increase in 2003 [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then they pushed it onto the local authorities, and we were the ones who were moaning about it. So the point is that our joint responsibility is that the salaries of mayors living in small towns are low. Fidesz has tried several times to correct this mistake. Unfortunately, you weren't partners in this. I would like to thank the mayors of small settlements for their patience and confidence that they have done their job in the same way as they have done in the past for two-thirds of their salary, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to help us resolve this problem. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-143	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-11-17-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Simon Miklós, could give some good advice to his fellow mayors in small towns, but if not good advice, he should warn them to say that there is no right to take up various funds. [[Sándor Szabó: That's right!]] 'Cause that's not appropriate, that's not good, that's not appropriate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Gábor Simon!]] I think that, on this issue, my first sentence may have to be translated, and perhaps other mayors of small towns should have given you advice or should have given you advice at the right time. But that's life, that's how it turned out. I do not wish to be particularly personal with you, but I would add that, to my knowledge, the story that relates to your mayor's existence is rather confusing. Interestingly, the immunity committee, if my memoirs don't cheat on me, didn't grant you immunity, so you're not subject to a trial. I guess you thanked the Fidesz, that's okay. [[Dr. Miklós Simon: What does that have to do with anything?]] Obviously, this provides a basis for making such statements. Let us look at the draft law itself and look at what my fellow Member, István Happy, has tabled as a proposal for an amendment of the law, which has already been initiated in this period. I think that, basically speaking of settlements under 1500 people, two things cannot and must not be bypassed. One is related to the public employment itself, to the organisation of it, to the issuing of the task on the subject of receiving remuneration for the activities of one of the members of the government or of the government in relation to the performance of this task. It's a matter of conflict of interest. In Hungarian, the story is that the mayors, who have obviously done a lot of things in connection with public employment so far, do so now for a fee, so they want to replace the sin, not a mistake, a sin that they have committed against them in terms of reducing their salaries, and they want to make a profit for themselves, a political profit, so that these people, if they are already under the auspices of the Minister of Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, are put on a leadership line and form their political identity. I do not think this is a very good idea, because the independence of mayors - and most mayors, especially in small settlements, are independent, non-fidesz, non-socialist, not this and not that - and their work for the settlement should not be tied to political shackles in this sense. That's one part of it. The other part is that they are obviously trying to steer them towards a loss of independence with this symbolically mentioned leadership, and, as I said, they want to generate political benefits, it is not about anything else that comes under government direction. [[18.10]] Another part of the matter is that of the proposal for a 30% increase in the remuneration of mayors in respect of salaries against municipal revenues in relation to the draft. I know that my fellow Member, Mr Vitányi, is already a different way of thinking in this matter, that it should not necessarily be accounted for by the revenue of the municipalities, I too, and we also believe that it is by no means possible, because you have taken it away from the municipalities most and have not given it to them. In this sense, their ability to afford this 30 percent is obviously not exactly the case. There are also local government associations that have taken positions on this draft law, and they do not really like the fact that they wish to use this 30 percent of the government's income to do so. You are always happy to act as if you are giving, and then as if you are giving a story blessed with the title to others to create; let the local government produce taxes, do this, do that, and then finance the plus 30 percent, instead of making sure that what they have taken from these people is at least returned to them. The mayor's salary, if I remember correctly, is assigned to the salary of the Deputy State Secretarys for basic salary, additional salary, and a certain percentage of the executive salary. That's 20 percent under 500, then 40 percent between 500 and 1500, and it's growing up. Maybe between 1,500 and 10,000 at 60 and even higher levels. That was what was attached to it, Mr. Mayor, my fellow Member, István Happy, submitted the draft law proposal, which is practically from 20 to 30 - isn't it? - from 40 to 50, and in the other category between 1500 and 5 thousand, he left the 60, and then he would have raised it to 65 between 5 and 10 thousand, but most of the Fidesz did not support it, because this would ultimately have been relatively good for the mayors, at least my calculations would have supported this, so there would have been an acceptable change. The majority of Fidesz did not support this. Now we're talking about another attempt. Once again, the biggest problem is there, at least for us with this whole story, that, combined with a 30% increase in municipal revenues and, in terms of conflicts of interest, the connection to the political leadership... - I am talking about public employment. The biggest problem is that again they do not want to take care of this - I don't know exactly, but - a few billion forints of money. I didn't calculate it, but that the feeling could be between HUF 1.5 billion and HUF 2 billion, and then it might be possible to give a more accurate number, but they do not even want to create it or provide it to the mayors of the settlements under 1500. In particular, I think I can understand what you are saying, my fellow Member, István Happy, in relation to the 70 percent shift to 0-90, but I would like to say that we do not like to support a process that does not give people income, does not give them money or pay them, but takes it away from them. I think that moving to 0-90% in this sense would also provide the possibility of doing so. I cannot and do not want to say anything else, but that if the government, the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic Party believe that the money that you have taken from people should at least be returned to a significant part of it, they should provide a direct financing background and not expect the settlement to finance it on its own income. So if I am based on the thinking of my fellow Member Vitányi, that if the government creates the financing background for this, then I think that is okay. It should be noted that they will be placed in a more favourable or less favourable position than before they were reduced, their income increased or decreased. And one more thing, which does not necessarily concern only the financing of the salaries and salaries of mayors and sub-Mayors, is the financing of the municipalities themselves. With regard to the funding of municipalities, six years is what is behind them. After six years - now slowly, after a few months - don't talk about anything else, talk about what they did. Talk about how the funding of local authorities in Hungary is carried out, how the financing of compulsory tasks is created, whether in terms of financing both personal and real costs. If you say you do, then I'll tell you why I don't have one and how I don't have one. Only because I face it day after day, especially in relation to smaller settlements, where large tax revenues cannot be made, that there is no financial background to mandatory tasks or task financing. Local governments are being tortured, and they are also suffering from mandatory tasks. In conclusion, I would like to suggest two things to your attention, and the third is to confirm the proposal that is now being made twice here. One: do not strive to keep the mayors serving in the interests of the elected settlements, I can say, by far, independent mayors in some kind of quarantine; do not seek to exert their political influence in this regard; do not want to buy with such lollipop money all that they should otherwise guarantee for the sake of fairness, even because you have taken these funds from the mayors. It is not necessary to reduce their independence, and it is not necessary to squeeze them into small forints in order to ensure that you are able to enforce their political goals as much as possible. Secondly, I think that the possibility that has been formulated within the framework of this draft law, plus an increase of 30 per cent, and that they should not take a different path in this respect, but rather take the path of financing it. Make the story a government financing background, and do not want it as described and formulated in the draft law, so that the municipality can charge its own revenue, do not want to make enemies between the mayor of the settlement and the citizens of the settlement. Mayors, who carry out their duties fairly, should be remunerated and remunerated so as to give them the opportunity to make a decent living. You know, in many cases, mayors working in small towns earn roughly as much salary and income as, say, the work manager of people working in public works who work in public works. [[18.20]] I don't underestimate a man who's a manager in community service, but I think there's a little more responsibility for the mayors who handle all the other crafty and difficult things in the settlement. In this sense, therefore, the existence of wages and salaries for their decent livelihoods depends essentially on you, essentially whether you are able, whether you intend, whether the government wants to finance 30% or not, and not pass it on to the municipalities' own revenues. Therefore, if my fellow Member, Mr Vitányi, is serious about ensuring a financing background from the government, he should submit an amendment, and we would be happy to support him in this story because we believe that all the things that my fellow Member, Mr Vitány, had put on the table in terms of percentage increases at the time, and all that he has just said in this respect, are eligible things, although I add, do not neutralise the crappy actions that occurred when the mayor's remuneration was reduced to this extent. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-145	Thank you, Congressman. There will be further speeches; first, Congressman Attila Petneházy, Fidesz.
u2015-11-17-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry that I'm going to go back to what I did the other day, but I'm forced to say that I believe in a massive way that it's not the way to disprove the other person's opinion that I'm going to start kicking him in the face of a human being and start hurting him. I say this, of course, to the sentences of our fellow Member, Gúr, when he tried to hurt my fellow Member, Miklós Simon, as a human being. I believe that the arguments largely stand still, and that even a better light is given to those who make these arguments. But going back to the case somewhat - because we've been kicking off and pulling all kinds of things away from him - such as the claim that it's about reducing the political motivation and independence of the mayors: I don't understand, now it's about supporting the Fidesz mayors, or the aim is to undermine the political identity of the mayors, because the two don't work out for me. However, it's just my own personal opinion that I've never seen a mayor elected, and when he sits in the mayor's seat, his political motivation begins to develop. At least I don't think that happens very often. His second comment was that the government did not provide any input to the small municipalities. That is far from true in my opinion. I was only in a small settlement in Szabolcs County, where there are many kinds of embodiments of funding both in community development and in road construction and in road renovation. So I don't think that's gonna hold up either. This was also a kind of discussion that was not closely related to the subject, which violently pulls the perceived or real events into criticism. Again, this is not taking forward the case that we all think is important. Because the important thing, after all, is what we all said, is that small town mayors' salaries are low. I think everyone in this room has admitted that, or at least they've lost a lot of money compared to what they did before. And I think that's what's important, after all. I suggest we turn back here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-147	Thank you very much, Congressman Petnehazy. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes.
u2015-11-17-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Petneházy, the basic situation is that you have taken me away. That's the basic situation. The basic situation is that the mayors of small settlements under 1500 have not benefited from the measures that you have taken. The basic situation is that they didn't create a better life situation for them, they created worse. The basic situation is, and I could tell you the story further - so I was taken. If you want to beat the minimum of integrity, you want to make sure that you can't say the wrong word, you have to give back as much as you've taken, but then you're still not in pari, you're not even, you still have work to do. Then they're on zero, you know, zero. And since it was not taken in 2015, and since it was taken, there has been some inflation, it could also be ensured. One word, like a hundred, is taken and not given, and taking is not a glory, no matter how colorful it is, it is obvious. Therefore, I suggest that they do not try to live by what they do when they give, but by trying to minimize the evil they have done. The other is that when you talk about development and many other kinds of money, you talk about EU funds far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far away. You know that. So the Hungarian budget was not a very large proportion there. And the last thing I'm saying is that the mayor's austerity I'm suggesting clearly means entering under the influence of government control. There's no room for that! The mayors should do their job, manage the settlements, deal with the problems of the people who live there, and have the right salary, decent pay, which is enough to make a normal living. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-149	Thank you very much. István Happy's comment will follow.
u2015-11-17-150	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I am very sorry that my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy has gone out, because I see that I have expressed myself wrong and that he has not understood what I have said, but I do not see that Nándor Gúr has either. I guess I just didn't make my amendment right. If a salary of HUF 300,000 is paid by the budget, then the budget is more than HUF 300,000, as if the budget were to cover 30 percent of this, the HUF 90,000. My proposal is precisely to pay 300,000 forints to the state, and 30 per cent, that is, 90 thousand forints, will be managed by the body of representatives - if it gives so much and not only gives 10 per cent - from its own budget. In this respect, I think that my proposal - which is about the compulsory wage laid down in the provisions of the law so far in the current budget for the current government - is far more advantageous for the municipalities, especially for small settlements, as if the government is holding a 30 percent increase in the current budget. As far as the deputy mayors are concerned, I think, after the deputy mayors' salary has already been established, this will not be reduced by the bodies, because they cannot do so. However, in proportion to the rise in the mayor's salary, they do not need to raise it at least now. This means that the salary I have told you here, the salary of more than 100 thousand forints, will not rise by 30 percent. This is a very, very important thing in a small settlement, Congressman. I suggest we release 70% because they won't take back the deputy mayors' salary, but they won't be obliged to raise it to the person who is now set at 70 percent in a small settlement. It will be very difficult if the House finally adopts the original bill, according to which the mayor's salary will increase by 30 percent - the Parliament may even stand - and the deputy mayor will rise by 30 percent. We will place a heavy burden on the mayors of small settlements! I would like to say once again that, unfortunately, the original law has not only reduced the salaries of the long-standing mayors in less than 1,500 people. That is exactly what my proposal, mentioned several times here, was about to slip 10 percent of the lower percentage key limits, in which the mayor's salary is set. However, since the current proposers did not submit such a percentage table, but a 30-percent derogation, I did not bring it back, but rather suggest that we lift the 1500-person limit and allow it. If a settlement has to manage itself, which means that the body of representatives and the mayor have to manage their own wage increase, then it doesn't matter that it has to do this in a settlement of 500 people or in a settlement of 20,000 people. He's got to work everywhere so he can farm it. And then I think it's only fair that we allow everyone. [[18.30]] And I would not like to lobby here in Parliament for the settlements of ten thousand, but, let's say, between 1500 and 7000 or 10,000, where mayors work a lot. Because in a settlement of 1550 people, I have several of these settlements, or a settlement of 4,000 people, they work a lot. They're doing community service. The municipality of Tiszanyő, the municipality of Tiszasas multiple sample self-government. The municipality of the village of Kengyel, more than 4,000 people live in the settlement, doing incredible Start work, employing hundreds of people, and please, I think the mayor is also doing a job there that he deserves not to have his reduced salary, but to have it back. That is why I think that, which is why I ask the fellow Members to support my proposals. What I do not think is right, however, what I see now is that there is a proposal again, whether there are amendments to it, amendments can be added to it, but we are already looking for the opposition side why we are not going to support it. Because it is possible to talk nicely about how much the mayors of small towns work - and here we are in our benches some of us who have been mayors of small towns for many years, so we also have our own experience - if, in the end, for the reasons made, I consider the community work to be something that Mr. Gúr and I say, we do not vote for it for the reasons made. Forgive me, Your Honour, but the fact that you think that Sándor Pintér will sign the mayor's contract for community service is completely absurd. It is quite obvious that Sándor Pintér does not sign with the current work planners either. And it's not even about what you're talking about. You can come up with that nicely, but this proposal is about how the mayors act as mini-chairmen. And to the mini-chairmen, I'm sorry, it's appropriate to acknowledge your work. And if it's possible to acknowledge the work of these mayors in addition - I apologize for the fact that I made them president, but let's be honest, I move among them, often called you more - then why not admit it properly, officially, legally? Some have tried to acknowledge this work. A lot of people are illegal, you can't deny that. But it's exactly time to put this thing right, and say you're right, you've done extra work that has nothing to do with the mayor's office, by the way, much of what the original profession is. Because when I became mayor, I'm sorry, and I started this service at my village, of course, there was community service, but it was all about something other than starting work. It was about something else. So I think that this should be acknowledged, and if this is the way the government can admit it, in addition to the mayor's duties, to which it can receive a 30 percent increase, then he can be the foreman, who is, by the way, the mayor of small settlements, who is always the head of these jobs, then he should be allowed to be this foreman, and that is why he should be given an extra allowance. I think it's the right thing to do. I ask the fellow Members, obviously it will not be easy to adopt this law, because if we always find a reason why we do not support it, then it will be nothing again. Already in December, I thought that this proposal would go through, especially with my amendments, which everyone in this House supported, at least at that time, and we will now resolve this issue. I think we need to figure this out. I don't dispute that when we changed the law, we made a mistake. It's undeniable. We've tried a lot since then to change that. But once again, last October, after the election, when we were going to try, we weren't the ones standing in front of the cameras, and they said they wanted to raise the mayors' pay because they got fidessed, and they reduced it so the opposition wouldn't start. Which wasn't true, because it was the independent mayors most of the time, and I don't know a mayor who didn't start because that's what the wages are for. Because someone doesn't become mayor for pay, but they become mayor primarily because they want to serve their community. Another issue is that you should be able to live, by the way, if you are already doing this job and you have to pay for your work. That's why I'm asking you not to let this law fail, to support it. I didn't bring any other kind of amendment, which is why I didn't bring in a table, which is why I didn't come up with my old idea to give back the old method that was before the law was passed, so that the bodies could determine within certain limits, based on multiplying numbers, even though I thought that method was very good. But I didn't bring this back, all I want is a small amendment that practically doesn't put any more burden on the settlements, and even removes the burden from the settlements, and we are trying to get back at last the respect that the mayors deserve. I ask your support for this. I think that if the amendments tabled by myself and the proposal tabled by my fellow Members can be combed together, then at the end, every mayor will feel that the whole Parliament, all those who voted for it, is not the Fidesz and the KDNP faction, but all those who voted for it, have finally tried to acknowledge the work that they are doing. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-151	Thank you very much, Congressman István Happy. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-11-17-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone has told me everything that can be said about this issue. I just want to ask that, if there is such a negotiation and it is such a serious issue, why do you not like to invite us there? When have we been invited to such a meeting by opposition representatives? I don't know, the right-wingers will speak for themselves, but we, the socialists, for such a conciliation hearing, which is a matter of particular importance, can tell you what serious tasks mayors do either in small towns or in large settlements, when it comes to such a two-thirds law, why do you not like to invite them? We are now hearing from Congressman Vitányi a proposal for an amendment which, if you had liked to put into the law, the current amendment, we would have taken a different approach to the issue. And don't tell me that we're already refusing to vote for the law without any real problems. Because that's not what this is about. Once we do not know what Congressman Vitányi wants to propose because we are not invited to such a discussion, we can obviously start from what lies before us. And if that is what we have before us, then we are taking what we have to say, taking our proposals, and making our position on this. Call me to such discussions, especially as regards the two-thirds laws, and then we probably won't be circling a year and a half around a question, because this is now the third proposal, or I don't know how many, I told you in my lead speakers, and then we're still not at the end of it, because we still don't see what kind of modifications there are anyway. Well, then, I guess you can work with that. Thank you.
u2015-11-17-153	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. Mr Nándor Gúr's speech follows. Mr. Messenger!
u2015-11-17-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Happy fellow Congressman. With a calm spirit, I appreciate the endurance, the work you do in this regard. And I appreciate your honesty. When a pro-government politician is willing and able to admit the mistakes he has made, it obviously also makes the opposition politician think further. Yeah. Because it's a basic condition that if they did something wrong that didn't benefit people, the mayors, then you should be able to admit it. [[Dr. István Vitányi: Should have been corrected for eight years.]] And you can change it. I want you to press a button, and then you can talk. Now, when I commend his fellow Member, his fellow mayor, because he is able to rise above and put on the table the mistakes that you have made, and his well-meaning proposals were not able to accept that I should go a little further to the wider faction, then allow me to invite my fellow Member back to the stage of complacency. Added to what has been said, I can't assign any other basis points for myself except that they took it away. They reduced it, put it in a worse position. But I don't want to stick with it, because you said it fair and square. [[18.40]] But let's get out of here. He says 100 percent, funded by the government, 30 percent, financed by the municipalities. My fellow Member! This 100 percent isn't 100 percent. This 100 percent is a reduced percentage of the 100 percent of the time. The government doesn't fund 100 percent here. No. He's funding the 100 percent he took me from. Not this one, the base position. The way it was. The one you reduced it from. You know, he's funding it. And then you don't have to talk about anything in particular here, because if there's still 30 percent, and if you can produce it, you can produce it. But that 100 percent is not the same 100 percent! We're talking two types of 100 percent. We're talking about the 100 percent that before that was the mayor's remuneration. You're talking about the 100 percent that you're paying right now, and 30 percent of that is going to be generated by the municipality. No! No! Mr. Mayor! You must go back to normal, my fellow Member, and you must be able to go back to normal. You need to be able to return the money that landed in their hands to the mayors. What you took from them must be returned. The original, I cannot say otherwise, was the original István Happy proposal, which was pointing in that direction. The original István Happy proposal. That's not what this one is about. In the procession, he told about the problem of the 4,000 - he used the number of 4,000 - in terms of the settlements of 4,000. I would like to point out: yes, I can see that I can give a concrete example even for a settlement with a size of 4,000 people. But, my fellow Member, in your once amended proposal, this was exactly the category between 1501 and 5000 people, where 60 percent of the story was stuck. Only between 5001 and 10 000 people did he convert the rates to 65 percent in that proposal; between 1501 and 5000, there was 60 percent even in that proposal. So there you are now compared to what you said, because you just said that there were also 4,000 settlements, and even in the original István Happy proposal, that was exactly the category where there was no positive diversion in this respect. Two small questions, but you said, "Who's gonna sign the contracts?" Sándor Pintér? I don't think so - but answer the question: who do you think will sign it? The notary won't sign it, will he? You're not going to sign it, are you? Still, who's gonna sign it? The head of the government office? Still, who's gonna sign it? Mr. Secretary of State Scratch? Or who's gonna sign it? So somewhere in the hierarchy, probably towards the mayors... Head of the district office? Or who's gonna sign it? If you look at the examples you just mentioned, I see a number of faces among the heads of the district office sitting between the walls of Parliament in your benches. Among the heads of government agencies, I see a number of faces who have also been sitting in the walls of Parliament, not unquestionably committed to political identity. Don't tell me there's no political motivation behind what you're doing in this regard. No. They took away some of their income, some of their salary to the mayors, and now they want to reverse it by turning it into political gain and capital, by giving back resources in some sense, or by creating the possibility of giving back resources so that others can create the source for it. This is unacceptable. Either the government finances what we're talking about, or there's no point in talking about it. In the vast majority of these municipalities, they are unable to create the additional financing framework for what you are talking about. A decision on this type of issue can then be taken by principle, only money in the mayor's pocket will not be in his hands, because he will not be able to finance these mayor's offices or even the municipalities, which are already facing problems and problems with funding. And then there's another question that you mentioned, which is adapted to public employment. Look, we can compete on the fact that when and when we were in government, there was public employment, and now which is better or which is less good. I'm sure I can tell you one thing: there were probably some mistakes back then, and there were still some mistakes. It's not perfect right now. I don't think it's perfect. Think about it in the case of Pearl Tree. You know, there was also a small town mayor who resigned simply because he couldn't accept the form of public employment representation as it did. I'm sure you remember that. About six months ago, sixteen people, if I remember correctly, cleaned three hundred meters of ditch at six centimeters per day, doing value-making public employment. So what I'm trying to say is that such an example can certainly be set in times of previous government. So it is not a good course to try to use public employment itself as a means of attack to a certain extent. I would like to point out to you that I was an individual parliamentary representative of an area composed essentially of a multitude of small settlements and one of the most disadvantaged regions in the country, the region of Edelény. For you, this is known as Oscar Molnár or paired with Daher Pierre. So in this area, where there are countless small settlements, in this area we did public jobs at the time, I only give examples, which were combined with the renovation of smaller, older mansions, combined with the work related to the renovation of kindergartens, which led to the construction of the nursing home, which was coupled with the extraction of dries in the forest areas, and I can give you thousands more examples, which were accompanied by tangible, valuable work. What I'm trying to say is that obviously the goal must be, if it is public employment, the goal must be that people who do not find employment in the primary labour market, unfortunately, I cannot forgive you so easily, because a million new jobs have been promised in the economy, and from that... [[Happy István's intervention.]] But where? What are you talking about, fellow Member? You're talking about... [[Happy Stephen:...300,000!]] with hundreds of thousands of jobs, as you thought. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] What we look like. It's okay, my colleague will give you the numbers, and I'll tell him that for the entire years 2009 and 2014 the year 2098 has the worst employment data, 2014 is the best employment data for the current five years. The difference is 353 thousand, of which 160 thousand comes from public employment growth, of which 110 thousand come from employees working abroad, registered in Hungarian statistics. From, you know, my fellow Member, those who have been driven away from here, who have become economic refugees on the stage of Europe, because there are no jobs in the economy here in Hungary. So, what I'm trying to say is that we don't have to fool each other with lying statistics, because it doesn't make sense, but if it's public employment, and if it's already 200,000 people's public employment, then it's important to try to get people to do the most valuable tasks and not meet a lot of stories based on art. And you know why? It is not only because it is not good for anyone who carries on this activity, but also because it turns people against each other. Because the person who works alongside the assembly line for minimum wage, you know, for the minimum wage, which is worth five thousand forints less than five years ago, you know, working for that minimum wage, and in the meantime, the public-employed person who doesn't do value-making work, if any, gets 51 800 forints, it creates a conflict between people. The job must be guaranteed and the responsibility must be those who deal with public employment, to give people the highest possible percentage, to the greatest extent possible, a type of public employment task that, from the point of view of others, wins respect, so to speak, so that people do not turn to each other. [[18.50]] They do, because in recent years, the aim has been to provide statistical statements within the framework of public employment, as statistical subjects. Just remember the little sun, the little cloud. You know what I'm talking about, don't you? When tens of thousands of people have been involved in quasi-education within the framework of winter employment, it is as if they were forced to do this type of work. Now, that's not what you have to do, because it's not just my deception, it's the deception of society, and if you think about it, and if you think about it, and if you think about it, how, in terms of public employment, the Ministry of Interior, through the interrelationship of local governments, you can improve the way in which public employment is done, then it makes sense, you can think about it. But once again, back to the original story, I think that it is not a good course to exercise influence from the direction of the political leader, and to exercise influence through such plus 30 percent of their payments. It is not good to try to resolve, so to speak, a conflict of interest, when they do not leave the mayors their own freedom of movement for the sake of their settlement, but, as I said, they want to influence the evolution of the processes by putting their hands together. I don't know what else to say. It would be better if you returned to the original István Happy proposal, you know, which I do not know exactly, half a year ago, however much time ago, or it may have happened a year ago, because there were more positive benefits in it than you are now trying to support in this proposal in a forced way. It would be much more effective for all and for the mayors, and it would not burden the municipalities with the responsibility to generate the resources to ensure these additional resources. In a word like a hundred, there is nothing to say but that, it cannot be imposed on the municipalities, it cannot be burdened with their own income by these extra costs. Whatever you say, 100 percent isn't the 100 percent we talked about before. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-155	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr István Happy, Fidesz.
u2015-11-17-156	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, has my hat on to you. I am sure that I will not live to see this in this House, to reach a speaker who, in one comment, will talk for 15 minutes about everything, only a little on the subject, we will get to employment, everywhere. I don't want to live to see that, and I hope I won't live to see it, so I'd like to get back to it. [[Nándor Gúr: I was only talking about what you were talking about.]] You're right. I didn't suggest the original 100%. My proposal is that what was originally described by the law is described in Article 71. Paragraph 7 would be added. Paragraph (7): The Parliament shall ensure the payment and reimbursement of the mayors, mayors with a social mandate (in paragraphs 2), 4 and 5) on a normative basis in the current Finance Act. That's what I want you to accept. I think that, by the way, this is obviously a greater burden on the budget than my fellow Member, István Vitányi, has proposed, but it is also a greater relief for the municipalities, so I think that is what is important in the proposal. Whether or not 30 percent can be managed by the municipalities after that, I think it can no longer be a question of debate, after they have now managed to manage the money that the mayors had to pay. By the way, I'd like to point out that there hasn't been a phase in the funding of municipalities since 1990 that hasn't been paid by mayors. It was for general tasks, but, you know, the fact is that the reason why there were so many self-hit - now called "Röki" municipalities at the time, 20 years of experience, is precisely why we managed to pay the mayor from this general support. Today, this cannot be solved by the municipalities, and today they must solve it on their own income. However, I can safely say that, for example, in my district - the rest of the country - I would not comment, although I think that my fellow Members, who meet with the mayors every day, can say that the number of applications submitted for the current self-reliance or reconnaissance grant is less than the number of applications, and that the municipalities need largely to claim the burden that they did not spend the money for what they had received, or that they had tax revenues that they claimed back, let us say, an undertaking, and that they cannot claim it back, they will receive much money for this. For example, I can tell you about several small settlements in my district, receiving full funding for kindergarten care and other tasks. So settlements in my district who were otherwise self-hungry will no longer submit a self-hit tender, and if we leave the money that we're giving to the mayors now, then they can make serious improvements, so I'm asking for your support and Parliament's support. So once again, the mayor's salary has never been in the budget in a separate way. I would also like to say to you that sometimes, before criticizing public work, you should visit similar public works settlements as Tiszatenyő, Kengyel, Tiszasas, so settlements where there is serious, valuable public work. I didn't mean to say my own settlement, I could say cities, say, Mezőtúr, and I said everyone in my own district, not by accident, I don't want to quote another district, but the thing is, you have to see what kind of work you're doing today. They do a very different job in these settlements than, say, they did in public work before 2010. I would like to say once again that I have said several times in Parliament and in committee that the person who criticizes today's Start work and, to say the least, speaks a little disdainfully of what public workers are doing today is looking down on the work of people who are working very hard. Most people work a lot, there's obviously an exception here, and I could say the same thing, and it's the same with the mayors. If you're targeting a mayor or a settlement that doesn't work there or that everything was legal, you can't point it at the mayor of 3,200 municipalities. [[Nándor Gúr: I agree.]] I think that the vast majority of mayors work legally and with absolute decency. Sometimes a man who commits lawlessness doesn't apply to all the mayors. So I am asking you, I hope, not to answer me in another 15-minute speech, because I do not want to waste my fellow Members' time. I think that we have discussed everything on this subject, if you and your fellow Member really want to raise the mayor's salary and give back what we have taken from them, you want to give back, you support the proposal that my fellow Members have tabled, I hope, with the amendments that I have also tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-17-157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, who asked for a two-minute comment.
u2015-11-17-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Happy fellow Member István, I see as you do in your last sentences. Far, far away, I think the vast majority of the mayors are fair. Two, in terms of public employment, I never take a critical step, and I think it is necessary, and I think it is important. I'm criticizing you, those of you who've lost a third of the public's wages, a third of your purchasing power. Remember your shameful 47,000 forints, remember back! Now 51 800 forints is what the public-employed person is holding, in 2010 it was 60 200 forints. So, you know, respect doesn't have to be on the word level, it has to be there, but also on the forints. The third thing I want to say is that I am sure that I will pay attention to the amendments that you, my fellow Member, and others, are submitting from the government, from Fidesz, from the governing parties. [[19.00]] I ask you, too, that what my fellow Members are presenting from the opposition side, we, others, should pay similar attention to it, because the objective, our aim, is clear. It's that what you've taken should at least be put in place and at least give back what you've taken, and then you haven't done anything yet, but that's something compared to that. So it's almost nothing, because we're going back to where we started, but at least they're doing this almost nothing. I believe this is your moral duty. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-17-159	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in two minutes, 15 minutes. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[László Vigh reporting.]] Yes, here you are, Congressman László Vigh.
u2015-11-17-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, He who watched followed this debate through television, I admired him sincerely, who could listen to it, and I have great respect for Congressman Nándor Gúr, and with my hat off to a man who had never been mayor, he did not do this, and twice in 15 minutes he held such meditation with his hat off! Yeah, that was a performance. But let's talk about what we came here for, because we talked about a lot of times that had nothing to do with the mayors' pay, and I have already asked my fellow Members not to show anything there, because everything they have shown us has been on that subject since then, Mr Gúr. So thank you very much for keeping my fellow Members in the end and for not increasing the mood. I would like to thank Minister of State Tibor Pogácsás for his support for the presentation; Mr Vitányi, Member of the Fidesz, who has made an amendment to the fact that it is not the municipalities, but the government that is paying for this funding. I think that this is a very good goal, and I think that Fidesz-KDNP will support it. Mr Sándor Szabó, the indications on the amendments, why we are amending, why we are bringing in new things. In advance, there will be no such thing as adopting a law in the world, and it will be perfect for 140 years. You don't have to... [[Sándor Szabó: It's just not every two weeks!]] If necessary, we'll change it every day, if life so requires. [[Sándor Szabó: Then something is wrong! The president's ringing the bell.]] I listened to it with decency, I didn't say anything while you were talking, so I'm asking you to listen to me. So there will be no law, no law that will last 140 years, and I think it's natural to tune it into life. He said that public employment is a party policy. Can you imagine that if we're going to use the Home Secretary as a basis, he's going to give the mayor's support because it's fidesz, and he's not going to sign for someone who's not fidesz? Can you imagine that? [[Dr. István Vitányi: There was no party policy at the time of the MSZP.]] Is this the only way I'm wondering, when they took the government's debt, did they not take the debts of the MSZP municipalities? All they took was their fidess? I'll keep going. There were some settlements that didn't owe him money. Was there a local government, a fidesz, a socialist who didn't get any extra money, who didn't have any debts? Then why do they say things like that? [[Nándor Gúr: Was, of course!]] So my request is not to go on this front, because it doesn't make sense. So they should always say things that are factual. [[Nándor Gúr: But what you say is not correct!]] The Socialist Party has made a full party policy in this debate, and I think that we should return to the right path. [[Sándor Szabó: What are you doing?]] My fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, says that the resources have been removed. [[Sándor Szabó: El.]] In view of his youth, Mr Nándor Gúr knows,. More money for the municipalities, more money for the people, I do not know if you remember this slogan, which was announced by our socialist fellow Members before the elections. [[Nándor Gúr: The minimum wage was not on the poster!]] And what's that got to do with it? That the municipalities were completely ruined, indebted. Fidesz-KDNP has committed to taking the government's debt. So what was accumulated, and especially in the beautiful 8 years represented by Gordon Bajnai and Ferenc Gyurcsány, was accumulated a huge debt, and this was repaid by Fidesz-KDNP. [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about, local governments or politics?]] So what you guys recorded, we took care of. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes.]] I'm sure you'll remember when you took out an IMF loan and Fidesz-KDNP paid for it. The municipalities were indebted, Fidesz-KDNP settled the debts of the municipalities. [[Nándor Gúr: Where is the HUF 3000 billion?]] So, so much for taking the resources. Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs says that the sources of income have been cut. Isn't Mrs. Violin Loránt here? [[Adam Mirkóczki points to the pulpit: There he is!]] I'm sorry. I would like to say that in the past period, when socialist governments had given funding to municipalities, the funding of a primary school was that if a small school budget cost 100 million, the state had to add 40 percent, 40 million and 60. It was the same with regard to the journalisms at the time, the same with regard to kindergartens. You're not hearing this now, you're hearing that kindergartens are funded, you're hearing that the common offices are funded, so we've assigned the resources to the task. I think that in a situation like this, the municipalities have never been in life. [[Nándor Gúr: Oh!]] My fellow Member, István, would like to delete the number 1500. I think it's right, to support it, not to bring a barrier. Zala county has a small village structure, but there are also one or two settlements, which are more than 1500 inhabitants, so it would not be good to distinguish between them. In connection with the deputy mayor's salary, his comment is different because he and my fellow Member Simon, we were mayors, and we see what comes from the mayor's operation. I have only been mayor of a small settlement for 20 years, and I feel this anomaly, and I can support my happy fellow Member in this. Attila Mesterházy: Public employment is signed by the Minister of the Interior, and this support is false, we are making a party policy out of it. Interestingly, this has repeatedly come up on the part of the socialists that we are making party politics out of public employment. But before that, it was noted that the vast majority of the villages were run by an independent mayor. I think that this should be discussed before they speak, that now the decisive majority is not independent, but is it a party politician? I believe that the current functioning of public employment is still ensured for all municipalities. We don't give public employment to people who are fidesz, who are socialists, who are LMPs or betters, everyone gets the opportunity to participate now. And we would like to reward every mayor, regardless of party politics; if someone employs 20-30-50-60 people in a month or so, we believe that it is a huge burden for the mayors, we must reward it fairly. I started with Congressman Nándor Gúr, and now I don't want to waste any time. What I'm asking you is that next time we're in this kind of debate, let's always try to talk about the subject. [[Nándor Gúr: That's all I was talking about.]] To sum up, I think it is right to raise the mayor's remuneration by 30 percent, it is right to eliminate conflicts of interest and thus give extra funding to the mayors. I hope that the amendments will adopt a proposal that will be good for the mayor of 3155, and then they will say that we have made a good law. I ask for Parliament's support in this, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-17-161	Thank you, Congressman László Vigh. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. Continue and conclude the general debate on the draft law amending law and certain related laws. The submission submitted by Mr Fideszes and his fellow Members, Mr Vantara Gyula T/7309. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that during the general debate, the initial speech of the author, the speech of the representative of the government, the speeches of the lead speaker and the speech of the first independent Member took place. [[19.10]] There is now room for further speeches by Members. Dear Parliament, No one came forward in writing. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik.
u2015-11-17-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Just very briefly, not taking advantage of the time frame. I'm the one who sensed during the lead speech round here that there's some confusion in the pro-government lines, what I was talking about, when I told them about financial transactions in churches, that they might want to look into the bank account or something. I would just like to make that very brief. I would like to point out two things that we think are of minimum concern, and it would be good if this were either clarified or, as it is, avoided or returned, because the first thing we are talking about is that the issue or fact of the independence of religious communities or churches is being undermined, namely, that the law currently in force, the legislation currently in force, is precisely the 11th. Paragraph 1 of this Article is deleted. Article 11 § said - I don't quote the whole thing now, just the essence - that it is an autonomous organization consisting of natural persons who have the same credit, having the same self-government. So here's for the churches that, who is recognized, established, registered, autonomous, this line is in the current one, but it is again outdated. My specific question here is why. What was the need to take out this otherwise very important principle and very important guarantee sentence if there is no intention behind it? Because then it's probably a carelessness. And if it is not careless, then I would like to hear an explanation. The other, when I wrote my criticisms of farming, was the 19th one that was just presented. I was talking about Section 2 of the Act on Accounting - and the rest - which states that: "The religious association records its income from non-confessional support and its use on the basis of the Act on Accounting. And here's two, three, four. § 1 governs what constitutes faith and not a source of faith. According to you, or according to the proposal that we have just tabled, the source of faith, which is a citizen's offer, is 1 percent tax, and so on. Well, that's what I'm saying. What about the donations from communities, parishes, isn't that religious? Of course it is. If someone, a parish, or a parish, were to announce any mission, be it social, educational, or other, to renovate, to help poor families, and the rest, how could the storm not be a source of faith? ! And based on their... Or, where appropriate, yes, the money in the bank, isn't that a source of faith? Because it doesn't appear here because it's listed here as a source of faith. On the basis of this proposal, if this is to be adopted, for example, on the basis of this proposal, the cash or other proceeds collected for charity purposes, which otherwise constitute a fully religious source, should be managed by each parish or parish under the accounting law, and this means, in particular, that state bodies are trying to record and control the income of all churches in essence, whether Protestant or Catholic or otherwise. And we don't think it's okay, it's not okay, and it's in that pretty bad, current church law, and it's in there. What I would like to do is to make a concrete use of two amendments, one being the 11th amendment currently in force. § 1 shall be returned, which states in a taxatically that the churches are autonomous, autonomous organizations with self-government, and this is to be included in the section on religious purposes, so that they are a source of faith [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The President bell rings) a donation collected according to the internal rules of the ecclesiastical legal personality, and I believe that this is a way of exhausting the part that includes either money or other costs collected for charity purposes. I think these are two important elements that I think there is neither a historic church nor anyone else who disagrees. Thank you very much, and if there was an explanation for why these two things are not in it and why they are out compared to what is currently in force, I would like to thank you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-17-163	Thank you, Congressman Mirkóczki. Dear Parliament, I'll see if there's any more speakers. [[No one's reporting.]] No, no one has applied for any further speeches. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-17-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to answer the last question, the question asked by my fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki. Article 11 Instead of paragraph 1 of Section 8, the following shall be added: § in the present case, which covers the scope of autonomy in its substance:, the State shall not operate or establish an organisation for the management, supervision of religious communities, or in paragraph 2 that the decision of the religious community on the basis of an internal rule cannot be amended or reviewed by a public body, the State shall not have the power to deal with disputes arising from non-regulated internal relations. Thus, there is no state licence in the internal context, as the Member mentioned, so there is a different use of the word, but the content of the regulation is the same. As for the money and other parts of the bank account itself, 19/C. § 2 states that the religious legal person's income for the purpose of faith and the use of them are not subject to the obligation of a public body, and this is a so-called special conceptual area. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] In a few words, perhaps, if I could respond to what was said in the keynote speeches, there were open questions. On the one hand, to Congressman Bárándy, regarding the concept of a church, the fact that the Fundamental Law is part of Article VII. In accordance with the Basic Law, if it is fulfilled that the decision on cooperation, on the basis of which it is decided, is enshrined in the Act of Parliament, and the proposal therefore provides for the possibility of concluding comprehensive agreements, it shall lay down both the conditions for becoming an established church and the basis for determining the fundamental law of the churches. The framework of the cooperation agreement is set out in the law itself. Here, after a civil-law agreement, the state has a relatively free margin of manoeuvre, so it must be separated, and the law also separates the activities carried out in the field of faith and public service, assumed public service, and in practice gives full freedom in the life of faith, while in the performance of public tasks the State, obviously the agreed party, is entitled to such permissions. How did the binding of the statuses to the 1 percent limit, to the sja-offering? The European Court of Human Rights, which has not established a practice in this respect, had to be measured to measure a social embedded position that was acceptable and which could indeed provide a point of reference, but, for example, it considered that the limit of 1000 persons was appropriate in the previous regulation, such as the establishment of a limit of 400 persons in the registered churches as regards the tax offer, is significantly lower, so we believe that this can be maintained. [[19.20]] If it is fulfilled that the decision to cooperate, on the basis of which it is decided, is passed by the Parliament, and thus the proposal provides for the possibility of concluding comprehensive agreements, it shall lay down, in accordance with the Basic Law, both the conditions for becoming an established church and the basis for determining the fundamental laws of the churches. The framework of the cooperation agreement is set out in the law itself. Here, after a civil-law agreement, the state has a relatively free margin of manoeuvre, so it must be separated, and the law also separates the activities carried out in the field of faith and public service, assumed public service, and in practice gives full freedom in the life of faith, while in the performance of public tasks the State, obviously the agreed party, is entitled to such permissions. How did the binding of the statuses to the 1 percent limit, to the sja-offering? The European Court of Human Rights, which has not established a practice in this respect, had to be measured to measure a social embedded position that was acceptable and which could indeed provide a point of reference, but, for example, it considered that the limit of 1000 persons was appropriate in the previous regulation, such as the establishment of a limit of 400 persons in the registered churches as regards the tax offer, is significantly lower, so we believe that this can be maintained.(19.20) The codification problems that Mr Bárándy mentioned, I would like to respond in a few more words. It was said to separate the fundamental provisions, and what is two thirds and what is not. The amendment per chapter led to the form he challenged. This is a codification technical solution which does not affect the validity of the legislation itself. However, when the polarity clause is amended, the scope of the fundamental provisions will be clearly defined for the future. That is all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-17-165	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: He's not here!]] Then he canceled. The next one's canceled. Dear Parliament, Therefore, there is no post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:21 p.m.]]
